ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Maja Dimitrovski, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Srečko Meh, Mr Jožef Kavticnik and Mr Mirko Brulc, who will be absent from 16:00. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the balancing of public finances within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Finance Committee for an additional explanation. However, I think that he is not yet in the Chamber, so we are going to take the floor that I am giving to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Micha Molan for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body. Here you go, Mr. Molan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, very nice greetings to all! We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the famous ZUJF, Article 101, which essentially interferes with the acquired rights of war veterans and, with its content, devalues the entire War Veterans Act. In opening, let me say that we have had quite a few concerns in veteran organisations, or that we should participate in this presentation today, which we can also call a farce, because the fact is that the decision has already been made and not in this Chamber, where different opinions and decisions are supposed to be drawn. Nevertheless, I will try in these few minutes that you have given us to give us some of our views on this issue. The content of the explanation is harmonised in both veteran organisations, the incentives for collecting signatures, namely in the Union of Veterans of the War on Slovenia and in the Union of Northern Police Veterans. To collect the signatures of the electorate and the electorate, we have decided for a number of reasons, and let me say at least two. Firstly, the absence of any dialogue on the establishment and adoption of a law that has significantly affected the rights of war veterans, since it has essentially taken away everything that war veterans in the past have received as a form of compensation for the moral and physical harm that they suffered during active military service and is only a compensation for their suffering, not in any way a payment or even social support. Thus, the vast majority of war veterans no longer have such compensation and the Law of Veterans has lost its purpose. Once again, this is not a financial issue, but a civil and cultural issue. Secondly, discriminatory treatment; some categories of affected people in war have preserved all rights, including additional health insurance. The question is whether the suffering of one person was worse than the other or whether they were worth more or less. All respect for the victims of war violence, but such legal arrangements have caused injustices that are not acceptable. We do not want to compare ourselves with anyone, but we do not allow our citizenship to be so vulgarly beaten. We war veterans are ready to share the fate of the Slovenian people in times of crisis. We have told you that for their creation we have no merit, and therefore we have agreed that the substantive rights of the War veterans Act are suspended, and we do not agree that this is a permanent solution. We have therefore collected the necessary signatures for the submission of a legal initiative, which should be classified as a temporary measure to withdraw the right to payment of additional health insurance for a period of permanent crisis, and this right to war veterans, after an increase in gross domestic product, is returned by 2% in the following year. A similar amendment to the ZUJF, which is somewhat broader than it is now proposed, has been made and supported by some Members, and I thank them for this action, discussed at the 10th meeting of the National Assembly at the end of January of this year, and has been rejected for substantive reasons. There were no formal concerns at the meeting of the National Assembly, and in the view of the current Government, the bill is not appropriate from a legal point of view, although it supports the Government's proposed substantive solution and will prepare an appropriate proposal for amendments to the Law on War Veterans, so at least it is written in the opinion. According to our information, there has also been a change of attitude in the Government since July this year, as there is no more uniform support for these changes. Therefore, if there was no formal reason this January, since the representative of the Government of the then Minister Vizjak did not say so, we do not know where these reasons arose. Obviously, all funds are allowed, including some formal legal reasons, to maintain a legal provision that is discriminatory and degrading for all war veterans. It is incomprehensible to us what has happened in these few months, that you have thus changed your views and views and with the help of the state administration, which, instead of looking for appropriate solutions and working for the well-being of the population, is making every effort to find some formal reasons for keeping the unconstitutional law alive. If, despite the warnings of the professional as a lay public about the changes of the ZUJF, you have not seen what the majority of the legally ignorant population has seen, that the UUJF has established an unconstitutional or you have made an unconstitutional decision, then I really don't see it now. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] All right, looks like time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u3	You can finish the thought, no problem. Go ahead, sir, and finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u4	This is a beautiful message value because it gives future generations a message that the homeland is not worth defending because they become defenders after a few years a disrupting factor. I am convinced that this proposal is appropriate that there is no anti-constitutional decision in it, no illegality, and therefore I call on you to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag for the opening presentation of the views on the proposal of the parent working body. Matthew the Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The amended law affects articles 101, 231 and 250 of the Public Finance Balance Act. These provisions, or those articles of the Public Finance Balance Act, have in fact become the content of the Public Finance Act. As a result, from a legal and legal point of view, the Government has found that the Law-Law of the National Assembly should be amended in order to address the issue raised by law-makers and not only to amend the Law on Public Finances. In view of this, the Government has already adopted a position in July this year that it does not support the proposal for a law tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters, but, at the same time, formally committed itself to proposing appropriate amendments and supplementing the Law on War Veterans, because it is not contentious solutions brought by the proposal for a law, but rather a way of trying to amend or eliminate inappropriate regulation. It takes into account the above-mentioned and also takes into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Government supports the position of the home labour body and proposes to the National Assembly that amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act should not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you, too. There are also presentations on the positions of the groups. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u8	Secretary of State, distinguished Mr Molan, respected and respected representatives of veteran associations on the balcony! Today we are considering a bill tabled by a group of more than 5,000 voters and voters on the initiative of the Union of Veterans of War for Slovenia and the Union of Northern Veterans. Solutions to the draft law are aimed at a very legitimate objective, namely to preserve or restore the scope of additional health insurance rights for war veterans and other categories of beneficiaries, such as those guaranteed under the War veterans Act, pending the entry into force of the infamous ZUJF. The law on war veterans in connection with the ZUJF now lays down amended conditions for the acquisition and enjoyment of health care rights from 1. 1st of 2013 onwards. The payment of health services after 1 is also provided to a war veteran. 1. 2013 in the amount of the difference to the full value of the services provided under the compulsory insurance, but only if it receives a veteran supplement or fulfils the conditions for obtaining a veteran supplement. Let me remind you here, Your Honor, that a good year ago, I, together with fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues from the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia, put in a legislative procedure a bill with very similar content. I would even like to say that this proposal for a law that we are considering today is summarized just according to our proposal for a law. With the introduction of the bill, the applicants were then very well aware of the difficult public financial situation in the country, so we wanted to prevent in particular the permanent withdrawal of the right to payment of health services in the amount of the difference to the full value of the services provided under the compulsory insurance. That is why we have proposed a solution to restore the same protection of rights for war veterans in the field of health care as before the entry into force of the so-called ZUJF during the year of the establishment of balanced public finances or in the year in which economic growth exceeds 2.5% of the social gross product. We therefore support the content and purpose of the proposed law, while agreeing with the Government, which points out that, from a legal point of view, it would be better to enforce such solutions in the War Veterans Act. We believe, however, that the Government will, in the shortest possible time, draw up an appropriate amendment to the War Veterans Act, with which we will effectively implement the solutions to this bill and perhaps the most important, respected and respected, with which we will at least, at the symbolic level, apologize for excessive interference with their rights and also for evaluating their contribution to Slovenia alone. That's what I think we all have to do together. That is why the Social Democrats will continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlišč will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! In the Civil Code, we relied heavily on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in deciding what to do with this bill, which assessed the bill very critically and expressed the view that it would have to be substantially amended in order to be nominally appropriate. Various opinions have also emerged on the appropriateness of the amendment of the ZUJF, as it would be more appropriate to amend the sectoral law. However, we cannot go beyond the difficult financial situation of a country where we still spend more than we collect and we must stop the practice of recognition of rights so far without adequate financial resources. We also oppose the adoption of laws in stock, where we bind rights to the level of economic growth achieved or something like that. This only increases legal uncertainty and blurs out the Slovenian social protection system. Like in a mockery of a proverb, who quickly does, twice does, we deal with ideas about how to give, not give, but if, but not now, but once In the Civil Gazette, we advocate simple and transparent legislation. For all the reasons mentioned in the Civil Code, we estimate that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u12	Dear President of the National Assembly, Madam Ambassador and Members, representative of the Veteran Organisation, welcome! Indeed, the Public Finance Balance Act, which reached out to more than 40 laws last year, also touched legislation on war veterans. He also intervened in the payment of additional health insurance to veterans of the war on Slovenia from the state budget. The then coalition, with the participation of the Slovenian People's Party, was aware that intervention in budgetary expenditure is the only solution to break out of the uncontrolled debt cycle of the country. At all levels, however, we tried to regulate our actions by not additionally burdening the weakest layers or people with lower incomes. Thus, the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium from 1 January 2013 is granted selectively to war veterans in compliance with the age requirement and the conditions for obtaining the veteran supplement. This is therefore a measure which coincides with the financial crisis in the country. Veteran organisations have tabled a proposal for amendments to the law, which basically aims to return the payment of this insurance from the budget to all veterans in the first year after economic growth exceeds 2,5 %. Let us now leave behind a nomotechnic flaw and inadequate regulation of the law, which today, according to the Government, we also find that the law is not suitable for further consideration. If I get back to the content for a while. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree that when the economic situation in the country improves, this supplement will also be returned to all war veterans. I'm sure they deserve it. However, this must be when the trend of the recovery of the Slovenian economy, and not only a temporary rise in economic activity, is also warranted. Surely there is no one in the interest that this solution should then be rectified, because it would prove that the situation is no better. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we wanted to be proactive, and therefore for some time we devoted ourselves to looking for ideas in what way we could solve this matter in order to be fair, but at the same time to go into the context of the public financial situation. In this direction, we propose a slightly different version of the amendment. Prepare a law that will restore the right to supplementary insurance paid to all veterans when the economic race exceeds 2% of the gross social product in three consecutive years. Indeed, this will be the real signal that the trend is turning and that Slovenia is recovering economically in the long run. This will signal that he is on the right track to settle his public finances. With regulated and balanced public finances, I am confident that money will also be found for veteran wars for Slovenia. The fact is, at least at the time of the crisis, the country should certainly show its gratitude to those who risked their lives for our independence. Although the representative of the Government made a very vehement promise on the committee responsible that the Government would prepare appropriate amendments to the law, which would regulate the matter as proposed by the veteran organisations. In the Slovenian People's Party, we look forward to what will come of this promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all in attendance! The proposal for a decision of the home committee, the Committee on Finance, is that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The decision was drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and also in the opinion of the Government. It is clear from these opinions or comments that the law is not appropriate from a legal point of view. The contents of the proposal are placed in the wrong law. The proposal has such shortcomings and inconsistencies that result in non-conformity with the Constitution or non-constitutionality. Members and Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners agree with the decision of the parent committee and we will therefore support it in the vote. With regard to the content of the law itself, this is about the return of the right to additional health insurance to all war veterans, and the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will not yet take a definitive position. For we are awaiting the government to prepare an appropriate proposal for the amendment of the War Veterans Act, and we expect this to come on our bench as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My request, however, that, given that I see that Mr Frangež has finally come to the hall to give him a word after the presentation of your views to present a key position, this is the position of the mother's working body. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State, representatives of veteran organisations! The Public Finance Balance Act was adopted as a necessary measure to reduce the public financial deficit. It has reached into a number of laws with a view to reducing budgetary expenditure as well as increasing budgetary revenue, as much as fair and evenly as possible being distributed. Among other things, he intervened in the provisions of the War Veterans Act. As a veteran of the war for Slovenia, this was especially difficult to accept. I have many fellow veterans of the war on Slovenia, but the state treasury was empty, it is still and is increasingly empty and will be empty until economic growth. The Public Finance Balance Act abolished the right of war veterans to medical and climate treatment. He also infringed on the right to health care or, more clearly, the right to payment of additional health insurance, to which all war veterans who had completed the age of 50 years were entitled. With ZUJF, the age limit for war veterans to exercise the rights set out in this Title has increased from 50 to 55 years, only those veterans who receive a veteran supplement are entitled to this right. ZUJF has foreseen all the rights listed below as a permanent measure. In New Slovenia, we supported the solutions brought by the ZUJF because the goal of the government in which we participated was to consolidate public finances in a way that distributed the burden of saving evenly among all social ones. We did not support the changes made so far and the addition of the ZUJF to war veterans merely for the reason that it does not begin with its decomposition, since it has already shown some extremely positive effects after six months. The decision of the Constitutional Court, as well as the decision of the Labour and Social Court, has already largely eliminated the original objectives and effects of the ZUJF. In New Slovenia, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Article 101 of the Law on Public Finance Balance, and we have also expressed this view on the working body. We need to give proper recognition to war veterans with the appropriate level of rights for their merits during the war and in the process of self-reliance of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it was essential for us that the proposed amendments and additions to that law do not bring new categories of beneficiaries or new rights that would entail additional public financial expenditure. The proposal of Article 101 of the ZUJF does not have immediate financial effects, but only at a time of significant economic growth. According to the proposal for a new law, they will establish a temporary measure to reduce the health insurance rights of war veterans, which will apply until the gross domestic product growth in the previous year is below 2.5%. The amendment to Article 101 of the ZUJF did not receive support on the working body and, in line with the Government's announcement, we really expect that new amendments to the War Veterans Act will be tabled in the parliamentary procedure as a material provision summarizing the solutions proposed by the group of electors and voters today to the amendment of Article 101 of the ZUJF. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. A group of 5,000 voters and voters tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Balance Act. This is a bill amending a permanent provision on the rights of war veterans as a result of the decision of the previous government. Let me remind you that in the Group of Positive Slovenia in the past, together with the SD, we wanted to make a similar novel to change the ZUJF into a work that touches veterans of war, including the NOB fighters and members of the defence and security forces who participated in the self-conservation processes or in the war for Slovenia in 1991. According to our assessment, last year's enforcement of the NUJF disproportionately and permanently intervened in the acquired rights of war veterans. The amendment therefore sought to prevent electives and voters from permanently depriving war veterans and other categories of beneficiaries of the right to payment of health services in the amount of the difference to the full value of the services provided under the compulsory health insurance. Under the current provision, the right to payment of the supplementary health insurance premium from 1 January 2013 is granted only selectively, although it is not a social category. And remember, it was the only material right that the state granted them because of their own contribution to the defense of the country! In doing so, let us also express our clear support for the correctness of the signatories to the bill, who want to exercise their rights after the economic and financial collapse and thus contribute to a faster exit from the crisis. On the home committee, we followed the opinion of Members and Members, both the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Government's position, which drew attention to the inadequate legal system aspect of the proposed amendment of the law, since the provision should apply directly to the Law on War veterans instead of to the ZUJF. For this reason, we have adopted a decision by eleven votes in favour that the law in question is not suitable for further consideration. With this in Positive Slovenia, we have consistently followed the position of the Government, which says that the Government of the novel Law on Public Finance Balance does not support because it is not adequate from a legal point of view, but supports the proposed substantive solutions. It will therefore draw up an appropriate proposal to amend and supplement the Law on War Veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows, distinguished guests! The Public Finance Balance Act last year was adopted with the aim of finally adopting a budget. All of us who participated in its adoption also had great moral concerns when we had to take some unpopular measures, which we also knew specifically in our people's wallets, but we approached the balance of public finances in a way that we wanted those who had the least who were most socially at risk to do the least harm. Therefore, these measures were selective and the result of the Public Finance Balance Act was essential in the budget and, given that we have reduced expenditure on the budget, there was no need to increase taxes. Of course, we are witnessing a completely different story today. At the expense of not taking sufficient root measures on the expenditure side, we need to increase taxes in this country today, because otherwise the budget does not come out. One of the areas affected by the ZUJF was the area of war veterans. We have also followed a similar logic here that we cannot harm those who are most at risk, but in some ways it makes sense to cut into some additional rights, all with the aim of trying to do as little damage as possible in the country as possible. I support and also support in our party all efforts by war veterans to regulate their situation properly what they once did for the country of Slovenia. I think that someday this time will come; once we have economic growth in this country too. Until then, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we insist on our decisions, on the decisions taken last year, and we believe that everyone must contribute to the resolution of this country in accordance with their social situation and economic power. Until we experience that we are back on the path of economic development in this country, we will take the view that this law, as we adopted last year, ZUJF, has helped stabilise public finances in many ways and we continue to support its solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On a procedural basis, however, Mr Matevž Frangež would like to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u22	Mr President, I should like to start by apologizing for the delay at the beginning of the meeting when it became clear to me, somewhere between Maribor and Ljubljana, that I would miss the introduction of the opinion of the Committee on Finance, for which I am responsible, that I have agreed with my colleague Aleksandro Osterman to present this position. Aleksandra was kindly prepared to accept this obligation, but clearly there has been a communication noise between our professional colleagues and the leadership of the National Assembly, which has not been informed of this change, so I apologize. However, given the invitation of my colleague Horvat, I should say that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has considered the proposal of the law and, in view of a number of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the opinions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that the law is not suitable for further consideration. This was voted by the Committee by 11 votes to one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you. Let me inform you that we will decide on a proposal for a decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Thursday, 24. Ten. 2013, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under the third framework of credit, which is leased by the European Investment Bank for the financing of environmental projects. The examination of the law shall take place within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representatives of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u24	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for liabilities under the third framework loan leased by the Eco Fund to the European Investment Bank for financing environmental projects amounts to a guarantee of up to EUR 50 million. The adoption of the proposed law will provide a basis for the conclusion of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. The conclusion of the guarantee contract and its ratification are the condition for drawing on the EIB's loan, which will enable Eco to carry out its activities without interference, namely the favourable financing of environmental investments, which will encourage financing of projects in the field of environmental protection in Slovenia and at the same time contribute to the fulfilment of Slovenia's international environmental obligations. The law defines the amount and purpose of the guarantee, the basic terms of the guarantee and the manner in which the guarantee is guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia. Some details about the content of the law. As has already been said, the Republic of Slovenia guarantees a credit guarantee of up to EUR 50 million to the principal with the corresponding interest and other loan costs. The credit will be used to finance projects aimed at energy efficiency and renewable resources, water saving and water recycling, drinking water supply, waste water treatment and waste management. The deadline for drawing credit is until 30 November 2016 and the moratorium on the repayment of the principal credit is 5 years from the date of withdrawal. The last instalment of the principal of the loan shall be paid no later than 15 years from the date on which the last tranche of the loan was drawn. The interest rate will be fixed when the individual tranche is drawn, either unchanged or variable. The currency of drawdown and repayment of principals and interest is the euro. The Eco Fund and, on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister responsible for finance must conclude a contract on the manner and conditions of the guarantee before the conclusion of the guarantee contract. The funds to repay the loan will be provided by the Eco Fund from its own assets. However, the financial implications for the state budget would only arise if the guarantee under this law were cashed. In the event of a guarantee being cashed out, Slovenia would have fulfilled its financial obligation, while at the same time compensating it with the cashing of the regressive right that is or will be provided for in the contract on the manner and conditions of the guarantee between the Republic of Slovenia and the Eco-Fund. The insurance contract, as I have already mentioned, will be concluded prior to the conclusion of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. Your Honor! It takes into account all of the above and also takes into account the conclusions of the parent working body, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that you adopt the proposed law, both in the second and third readings already at the current meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you, too. The Finance and Monetary Policy Committee has also considered the law as its parent labour. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Matvež Frangež, for the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u26	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much for the floor! On 8 October, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, at its 20th session, considered the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under the third framework loan leased by the Eco-Fund, the Slovenian Environmental Public Fund, to the European Investment Bank. The Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, an amendment was drafted to Article 1, which provides more clearly for the provision of drinking water and not just water supply between the targeted investments of such credit. Otherwise, no amendments were tabled by other qualified applicants within the framework of the business deadline. Representatives and representatives from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service were invited to the meeting of the Committee. However, it follows from the Government’s opening statement that the adoption of the proposal will provide a basis for the conclusion of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, which guarantees the fulfilment of the obligations of the EcoFund under that Treaty. This guarantee, conclusion and ratification constitute two of the conditions for drawing credit of up to EUR 50 million, which will enable Eco to promote environmental development and financing for energy efficiency, renewable resources, savings and supply projects, primarily drinking water, waste water extraction and treatment. In this way, the European Investment Bank supports a larger number of smaller environmental projects in Slovenia, already implemented through the Eco Fund, and in this case projects through a financial intermediary where one, i.e. a larger loan, is committed to the Eco Fund to manage and provide a range of smaller environmental projects. Since the EIB is not of a profitable nature, the credit interest rate may be adjusted accordingly to the conditions under which capital is acquired on the world capital market by relatively favourable available assets. The fact is that, due to the parallel guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, the risk premium and the interest rate are correspondingly lower and that the Eco Fund in this way also transfers this low interest rate to the final beneficiaries of credit assets, namely citizens, businesses, local communities and others. Following the debate, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted the proposed amendment to Article 1 and also voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. On this basis, the text of the amended draft law is prepared, in which the amendment is also incorporated, and the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Vraničarova with co-worker, respectable choir! The National List is the only right liberal party that sometimes more, sometimes less successfully represents the tradition of liberalism in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are the only ones representing both liberalism in the social and economic fields of individual life. It is self-evident that, as true liberals, we advocate the concepts of classical economic liberalism, which, as far as possible, wants to avoid distorting markets through state intervention. Whether taxes or subsidies will be accepted, liberals will be difficult to accept and/or others. However, political reality often requires compromises from us and, therefore, sometimes with shrively teeth, we agree to a tax hike and sometimes a subsidy for a particular company. However, the law that we have before us can be said to allow for the continuation of subsidisation schemes that even a liberal can accept without major emotional shocks. If there is a need to implement subsidisation schemes, we would like to see those as eco-fund subsidies directed horizontally and not delegated and invented for a predetermined recipient. Eco-fund subsidies are not, unlike many others, intended to preserve obsolete production facilities, assist failed industries or rescue businesses on behalf of national interest. These subsidies shall be granted in accordance with all the most modern guidelines adopted at EU and United Nations level. They are intended for the public and the economy to promote the consumption of modern energy-efficient products. The Eco Facility therefore implements a policy based on the concept of channelling funds to certain sectors, but does not do so through direct state remittances, but allows citizens and businesses to decide who is the best bidder on the market. These subsidies do not distinguish between public and private companies, between foreign and domestic companies or between left and right friends. If, therefore, there is a way to manage economic policy, we would like the liberals to be the one implemented by the Eco Fund. The additional effects of eco-subsidies are, among other things, a cleaner environment, less energy use, the development of modern technologies and the financing of consumption at very favourable rates. For this reason, the Civil Code will support the law, which clearly proves that the quality of the law is not necessarily inversely proportional to the length of its title. The Civil Code will therefore support the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for liabilities under the third framework loan leased by EcoFund, the Slovenian Environmental Public Fund, to the European Investment Bank for financing environmental projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u30	Nice greetings, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Immediately in the introduction, let me say that in the Slovenian People's Party we have laws such as this, they rejoice, and I am glad that this is also one of the laws that will certainly receive uniform support in the National Assembly, a law around which there is really no need for anyone to grind their teeth when they are dealing with it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we closely monitor the operation of the Eco Fund and estimate that this is one of those institutions that is doing its mission well and has done so in these years with the good resources it receives in such a way or otherwise, a breakthrough has been made in both energy efficiency, renewable resources, water supply, water treatment, waste management and air pollution reduction. This is one of the many areas in which the Eco Fund is very quality with its instruments and calls for grants as well as for credits it directs development in this area. We agree that we have to bring as many resources as possible to Slovenia and the resources of the European Investment Bank as non-profit European banks; our joint banks are certainly one of such resources, and we are therefore pleased to be able to support this guarantee law for these fifty million euros, which will be earmarked for these purposes, which I have also listed so far. As we monitor the functioning of the European Investment Bank, I think it is right to point out, at this point and on this occasion, what is also apparent in the material, that the European Investment Bank has provided for such minor interventions, where individuals, municipalities, businesses are involved, to be financed through a common institution, which in the Slovenian case is the Eco Fund, while the European Investment Bank also provides sufficient funds for larger projects, projects that are above EUR 25 million and are also for similar purposes, such as the one we now accept for the Eco Fund. This is why it encourages the Government and all those working in this area to also focus on bringing these resources to the country, which are very important for the developmental breakthrough of the Republic of Slovenia. Last year alone, when I was serving as Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, I also established these contacts and spoke with representatives of the European Investment Bank, who very clearly presented how some countries are even more successful in drawing on these credits and there are several opportunities for us. I am aware of the efforts made at this time by representatives of hydroelectric energy investors on the bottom of the Sava, as well as by the public company Infra, in order to facilitate the completion of the financial structure for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the bottom of the Sava. I also pointed out the opportunity last year, and we have already taken the first steps in this direction in the government to improve the area of flood safety in Slovenia also with the resources of the European Investment Bank. Therefore, with the support of this law, it also calls on the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, to continue its activities to reorganise the area of water management. Above all, in the area of flood safety, I think that there is a lot to be done and from everything that has already been learned last year, which has also been discussed in the first place, there is a very good chance that, with the active work of the ministry, countries can also, through a very accelerated investment investment in this water protection area in the coming years, establish an investment cycle in this area somewhere between €500 and €700 million. We could also finance this with a large share from the European Investment Bank, and I think that this is one of the opportunities we should not miss. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will be united and very happy to support this guarantee law and I want this money to come to the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. The Eco Facility shall carry out favourable financing of environmental investments, following the European Union's environmental policy orientations. It also pursues the priority objectives of the Environmental Protection Act, the Energy Act, the Resolution on the National Energy Programme, the Law on the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the operational programmes of the competent ministries. In recent years, Eko’s loans have been primarily aimed at managing climate change by promoting energy efficiency measures and the use of renewable energy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The smaller part of the loans was intended for the prudent treatment and management of waste, air protection, water protection and efficient use of water as natural goods. In 2012, 574 loans were granted to citizens totalling EUR 7.4 million. The total of all loans is 640, with a total value of slightly less than 28 million. Most citizens have taken advantage of the possibility of borrowing loans and of obtaining an irreparable financial incentive for investments. The advantage of loans to citizens is shown in comparison to the effective interest rates for the Eco-Fund loan with the average interest rates of consumer credits published by Banka Slovenije twice a year. In 2010, the Eco Fund received €16 million in loans in the past and €17 million in 2011. Reimbursement of approved loans is not sufficient to implement planned funding programmes. At the end of 2011, the ECO Fund prepared a business policy proposal for the period 2012 to 2016, which provides for around EUR 152 million for environmental investments during this period. At that time, the Eko Fund will have to jointly repay almost EUR 28 million of credits already hired, and the drawing-up of a new loan to the European Investment Bank is also a source of funds that will enable the financing of the envisaged lending flows. The conclusion and ratification of the guarantee contract are two of the conditions for drawing on the envisaged credit of up to EUR 50 million, which will enable the Eco Facility to promote the development and financing of environmental protection for energy efficiency, renewable resources, savings and supply projects, primarily drinking water, waste water disposal and treatment. The European Investment Bank supports, in a manner described, a larger number of smaller environmental projects in Slovenia already implemented through the Eco Fund. In this case, projects are through a financial intermediary because the loan is intended by Eco to manage and provide a range of smaller environmental projects. Otherwise, the European Investment Bank does not have a profitable character and the interest rate is accordingly lower and the Eco Fund transfers a lower interest rate to beneficiaries of credit assets such as citizens, businesses, local communities and others. On the basis of the adopted law, the Minister of Finance shall, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, accede to the conclusion of the guarantee contract with the European Investment Bank and with the Eco Fund on this basis, conclude a guarantee contract and the modalities and conditions for the insurance of such guarantee. In doing so, the terms of the loan shall be laid down in such a way that the deadline for drawing on 30 November 2016 with the moratorium on repayment of the principal for a period of five years is fixed. The last meal of the principal shall be paid no later than 15 years from the date of the drawing of the individual tranche. In view of everything that is said in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will definitely support the proposed guarantee contract and this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Energy saving and its efficient use begin with the knowledge that energy is not self-involved and is not in unlimited quantities. We must be aware that the deliberate and planned use of energy does not only affect the family budget in households. Its impact is wider across the economy, the public sector and the environment in the country. Both the European Union and the individual Member States of the European Union, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia, promote energy savings through various mechanisms, in particular through funding for energy savings investments. The promotion of environmental projects takes place with us through the Eco Fund, whose main activity is to credit various investments in environmental protection at interest rates lower than market rates. The Fund's financial support has already become a constant and useful source for financing projects related to energy saving and environmental protection. Over the past few years, a large majority of public buildings, especially older buildings, have been carried out with the financial support of the Eco Fund. The savings in heat are up to 25%. There is also an increasing number of private facilities where a comprehensive resolution has been carried out by crediting and subsidising the Eco Fund, ranging from the arrangement of the facade system and the replacement of building furniture to the purchase and installation of environmentally sound heating systems and heat pumps. The financing of waste management and wastewater treatment projects is becoming increasingly important. A total of 85% of the funding for projects, credited by the Eco Fund, has been allocated to legal persons and independent entrepreneurs, in particular to investments in low-energy buildings, and a large share has been allocated to contracts for the construction of solar power plants. And if we are already on solar energy, colleagues and colleagues, perhaps interesting information, perhaps more interesting than this act that we are now adopting. Let me say that all mankind consumes 5 x 10 ş joules of energy per year. And the sun sends 20 times more energy to our planet every day. It is true that all solar energy cannot be used. Here, of course, in this data is the answer to which energy facilities are worth investing in. Similar information was recently provided by our Commissioner, Mr Janez Potočnik, when we were on a study visit to the European Commission, so much for intermediation. Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for liabilities under the third framework loan of EUR 50 million, which will be leased by the Eco Fund, the Slovenian Environmental Public Fund to the European Investment Bank. Of course, we expect the Republic of Slovenia from a given guarantee not to pay any obligations and the Eco Fund will grant the funds it receives to the beneficiaries in a way that will ensure the repayment of credits in accordance with the contracts concluded and will also be secured by appropriate guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u36	Good bye to all of you! In the introduction, let me also say that we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we are aware that taking care of the environment is a priority for each of us, as an individual, of society as a whole, and especially of the countries. To a large extent, we also contribute by investing in environmental investments. An important role for such investments has been and is still the activity of the Eco Fund, which allows more favourable loans and also non-refundable financial incentives for investments sworn in by EUR 10 000 to investors in environmental investments. Despite the crisis and the lack of resources from investors, everything must now be done to continue to be encouraged by the State to invest in environmental investments and, of course, to contribute to the preservation of our environment. Given that the Eco Fund for Recovery received in the past does not receive sufficient or does not raise sufficient funds to implement the planned funding and repayment programmes for future repayments, it is, of course, necessary to seek additional funding under the most favourable conditions. The adoption of the proposed law will enable the conclusion of a guarantee contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, with which the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee to the lender that the European Investment Bank will guarantee the obligations of the Eco Fund under the credit agreement. The Eco Facility will thus have the conditions for drawing on loans of EUR 50 million, which will also allow for the continuation of its activities and the promotion of development and financing of projects in the field of environmental protection. For all these reasons, as I have already mentioned, we will also support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u38	Respected and respected! The area of adaptation to climate change and the fight against it should be subject to our central attention. Also because of the effects of climate change, Slovenia is already facing painful consequences every year; large floods on the one hand and on the other, devastating drought. These are just two of the clear examples that climate change is happening and that its consequences are already between us. The law we are adopting today essentially addresses this process. The fact is that climate change is not only an extremely great threat to humanity for its way of life, but also an extremely great opportunity for appropriate transformation, transformation of our habits, in order to adapt their life, social, economic and environmental realities to a more sustainable, co-natural way of life. This is the responsibility of today's generations if these responsibilities of the generation have not been sufficiently realized before us. A new report of the International Panel on Climate Change has recently been published, which, compared to the previous report issued five years ago, sets even more alarming and alarming data on climate change. Today, it is doubtful that the human race’s goals, for example, through the Kyoto Protocol, will not be achieved and a scenario that would prevent an average global temperature from rising by 2 degrees compared to the pre-industrial period. According to scientists, this is the limit that allows mankind to carry out this great global challenge in a sustainable manner. The Eco Facility Loan Guarantee Act allocates funds specifically for these purposes, especially in the field of environmental protection, environmental projects, drinking water protection and energy efficiency, and energy recovery. This is not only an area where such behaviour is responsible for the environment and future generations, but it is also an area that is economically paid to those who will ensure that they are heated to a more appropriate, renewable source, to ensure energy efficiency in the community as a whole, or at the local community or country level, to ensure that our natural resources are adequately protected, especially air quality – here is Slovenia at a critical point; as one of the most forested countries in Europe is also one of the most problematic countries under the air quality criteria – and, of course, water with which Slovenia is an extremely rich country, but irresponsible behaviour in the past two decades shows its harmful consequences. In this respect, this law is one of the points where the entire Slovenian policy can be agreed upon. Let me mention that the support of this law has been announced by all the parliamentary groups and by the Social Democrats, we are happy to do so because we are enabling households, businesses and local communities to carry out sustainable projects in the field of environmental protection, energy efficiency, drinking water supply, in order to provide additional incentives for investors to do what is environmentally responsible, sustainability and, on the other hand, which is also economically paid to all those who decide on such investments. As many laws as possible and in the end perhaps the emphasis that there are still many potentials in this area in Slovenia. Let me mention only wood as an untapped opportunity for Slovenia, where we could also do more with similar financial incentives in a short time. The Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you for your position. We have also concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held on Thursday, 24 October 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a law on amendments to the tax procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matei Vraničnik, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The basic objective of the proposed amendment to the Tax Procedure Act is to ensure the effectiveness of the tax authority. In order to achieve this objective, it is proposed to supplement or amend the provisions governing the assessment of the tax in specific cases, insurance of payment of tax debt, tax control, tax enforcement and criminal sanctions. The changes will not affect the legal security of taxpayers, but they mean a greater possibility for the tax authority to detect and act in the event of the infringements found. The key amendment introduced by the proposal for a law is additions and to a certain extent also amendments to the applicable regulation of the rate of tax on unannounced income. The tax authority may determine the subject of a valuation tax if the taxable person has the means of private consumption that are significantly above the income that the taxable person has declared to the tax authority. The dosage procedure may be initiated for one or more calendar years over the last ten years. The need for a longer period stems from the fact that the property is a dynamic category and therefore the tax base can only be properly established for a longer period, especially when we are talking about concealing assets abroad. In order to establish the tax base under this Article, it is clear that the source or type of income is not relevant for the assessment of the tax, since there is a legal presumption that the difference arises from the unexplained income of a given period. As a result, a tax rate of 70 % is introduced. The fulfilment of the tax liability is a fundamental obligation of the taxable person to fulfil it irrespective of his other obligations, and therefore different possibilities are provided for the taxpayer to remedy the irregularity. However, if these options are not used and the fulfilment of the obligations continues to be avoided, it is appropriate to tax non-compliance. The tax administration sees an increasing number of cases of disproportionate asset acquisition, which requires an urgent increase in the scope of control in this area. By August 2013, the Tax Administration had issued 208 decision-making decisions which additionally imposed on the taxpayers EUR 32.8 million of tax. However, all decisions taken by the tax authority have been confirmed in the Administrative Court or the Supreme Court. It is envisaged that the proposed supplement, including the provisions on debt insurance and criminal sanctions, will affect the effectiveness of the work of the tax authority and will also help to prevent or avoid abuse. The second amendment concerns tax inspection. Following the proposed amendments, the tax authority will no longer have to hold a final discussion with the taxable person and information on the relevant facts and evidence found in the inspection will still have to be provided to the taxable person. The range of persons engaged in marriages for payment of tax debt shall be extended if the property has been acquired by the taxable person of the natural person free of charge or at a lower price than the market in the year or after the year in which the tax obligation arose because the taxpayers transfer the property to other persons in different ways and thereby prevent the recovery of the obligation. It is also proposed that the new institute retain the statute of limitations. Dearly noted, taking into account all the above, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law should be supported as a provision which is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u42	Once again, all of you, welcome! In the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act and these main solutions to the rate of tax on unannounced income, tax inspection, enforcement, retention of arrears, harmonisation with respect to the amendment of the PSIZ and criminal provisions as a whole. We are flying with a very demanding material, which I think is what we call to settle this area in Slovenia, because people are far from seeing that something is wrong in Slovenia and that a whole range of natural persons who have apparently come to some strange amount of property in some way; and from how they came to this property, taxes have not been carried out in the past, and our society can also function more fairly and better. In the past, we have already tried to resolve this issue in the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin, but it is more than obvious that matters are not effective. I am also pleased with what is stated in the law that, in the preparation of the law, these amendments to the Law on the Tax Procedure have been heard by those who carry out the business and have also given instructions with their comments, directions to which this law should also be corrected. As far as tax enforcement is concerned, we strongly support the fact that it will simply not be possible to fool the country into avoiding these obligations by transferring assets to relatives. We are therefore pleased that this cycle of debt repayments is expanding and that we are also making a certain order here. As far as public auctions are concerned, these solutions, which are also necessary, are often dealt with by a certain group of individuals, speculators, who simply connect with each other and, without having to be placed on bail, play this process. That is why we believe that this change is in place and we support it. Also, lowering the threshold for auction performance is, I think, for the benefit of the State and therefore also for our support. The change, as regards the delay, is also in place, because we think and we all know that in Slovenia there are a variety of procedures, either in the legacy proceedings or in the various judicial bodies, they are disproportionately long, and in this way Durs simply cannot carry out his procedures and many times the system is played in such a way that things lead to obsolescence. Practically again, speculators, those who have had a strange way of accessing certain assets in the past, avoid the terms of the right or payment. The level of penalties is also changing, and we estimate that they are still acceptable. It is also right that this term introduces a worse tax offence and that things get worse in this area as well. As far as the key point of the non-predictive income tax is concerned, we believe that it is an attempt in the right direction and that it is indeed necessary to establish that people in the past have come to this property in a strange way and that it is simply necessary to withdraw it first, and in another case also, as a solution to this law, also with a certain tax rate. These procedures are also known throughout the world and have been happening over the years, for decades. They're interesting, and one of the most infamous cases about this criminal Al Capone in America, it's said a bad century ago, he's very talkative that, in fact, with a well-known criminal, they managed to get to a court epilogue right through tax evasion. I think that the money trail is one of those that needs to be used, and also those who also use criminal acts, including sometimes terrorism, in such a way as to dissipate them and do the most. I am very sorry that we did not support the resolutions of the European Parliament in the previous Assembly in 2010; we supported that resolution; we did not fully understand why the government rejected it at that time; but it was a resolution where it was intended to join the reverse burden of proof on terrorism, organised crime, arms and drugs. I think that this is the next step to be taken to simply get to those who are engaged in such activities as soon as possible and to come to this difficult task, so that they themselves will have to prove where their assets come from. It is now also an amendment that the tax procedure may be introduced for one or more calendar years during the last 10 years preceding the year in which the procedure was introduced. It's the first reading of this law. I think it is right that we are also dealing with these ten years at this stage, and even further, and that we will find out whether a period of 10 years is really appropriate or not to extend this period. I don't know what the difference is if someone worked like that in 2000 or in 2003 or 2004. In the Slovenian People's Party, we tend to extend this period to the time of the last 20 years, when such or otherwise a transformation of social property has also taken place and, as we can see, there has been a whole series of ingenuity. Certainly there will also be a great deal of talk in these proceedings about the tax rate itself of this 70%, as well as about the Institute of Self-Login. I think that this is one of the instruments that definitely needs to be included in this law and also to make this distinction between whether law enforcement authorities step up or the Tax Administration step on their toes or give people the opportunity to make their own decisions. That is why I think it will also be necessary to talk about two stages; the extent to which this process is being undertaken by the authorities of the State or, simply so that those who feel this obligation do so themselves and thus conclude these procedures. A number of comments were also received by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which we Members received at the table. I think it is right for us to go deeper into these comments and really prepare this law to the extent that citizens and citizens will have the feeling and that this will be carried out in practice, so that those who have come in a strange way to the property, even in a strange way, will be raised property. In the first reading of the Slovenian People's Party, we will certainly support this law and we will also actively monitor it and, in the second and third readings, we will be involved with amendments to this law, and I hope that we will adopt it as best as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the adoption of the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act requires changes to the current system. Therefore, due to the adoption of the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2013, it contains certain solutions which also require amending the reference in the Income Act and consequently the Tax Procedure Act. Therefore, the proposed solutions demonstrate a greater effectiveness of the tax authority in terms of the arrangements governing the assessment of taxes in specific cases, as well as changes to the provisions on tax supervision and tax enforcement. Certainly, these changes do not undermine transparency or the legal security of taxpayers. The applicant has chosen the solutions in six content sets; for the first time, when the tax on unannounced income is calculated, it is complemented and amended in the part of the word "revenues of which a tax has been assessed or charged, which clearly states that the tax base cannot be reduced to an income which the taxable person discloses only during the tax inspection procedure itself". This avoids the speculative behaviour of a taxable person when, in order to avoid a tax assessment at the proposed high tax rate, only during the valuation procedure, he discloses incomes that he has not announced in the past and are taxed at a lower progressive or at a cedular rate of income or the tax rate has already expired under the general provisions. Procedures for the assessment of the unannounced income tax may be introduced for one or more calendar years during the last 10 years preceding the year in which the procedure was introduced. As we know, property is a dynamic category and therefore the tax base can only be properly established for a longer period, especially when concealing assets abroad, as confirmed by the experience of the Tax Administration. On the other hand, the need for a longer period is also dictated by the legal regime governing the confiscation of assets of illegal origin, which also has legal effect in the tax area. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that those taxable persons who do not comply with the tax obligations within the time limit and in accordance with the legislation should be adequately punished with a higher tax rate. In the event that the taxable person does not submit a declaration of property, the proposed supplement, including the provisions on insurance and criminal sanctions, shall ensure that the tax authority does more effectively work and shall contribute to the prevention of abuse or avoidance in compliance with the tax obligation. With regard to the payment of the tax debt, however, it is desirable to ensure that the tax authority can obtain a lien on the debtor's assets before the decision is issued and enforced. Secondly, the tax inspection regime provides for an acceleration and thus avoids the participation of a taxable person in tax control; this is the case with the facts, evidence, observations, explanations both before and during the specific finding procedure itself. Even in our behaviour, the proposed change also affects the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of tax inspections. In order to ensure that tax enforcement is more effective, a range of persons, marriages for payment of tax debt are extended if the assets are obtained from the taxpayer free of charge or at a lower price than the market price in the year or after the year in which the tax obligation arose. There is also a new provision regarding the validity or termination of the border. This is the case where the sale of entangled movable property is not made within one year after the acquisition of the flag right on the occupied movables. In any case, the proposed amendments seek to increase the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of sales both after the public auction and through the collection of bids. The relevant novelty is also the takeover and destruction of the entrants to the tax office in the event that the debtor does not wish to take them. A new institute is also added – the retention of obsolescence, which means that the deadline continues, in particular in cases of judicial, insolvency and succession cases. When harmonising the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the amendments relate to the provision of notices and certificates of reduced rate of payment of income on the basis of the adopted Pension and Disability Insurance Act in 2012, which entered into force this year with effect from 1 January, with regard to certain solutions which require amending the reference in the Income Act and thus also in the Tax Procedure Act. And in the context of criminal provisions, those provisions governing tax and tax offences of individuals are also amended. We have no comments on all the proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure Act in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, as they contribute to better respect for tax discipline and, of course, legal order. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we support the first reading of the amendment of the law and also propose it for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The grey economy is a negative social phenomenon practically in all companies and covers a good part of the gross social product. According to economists, this is between a few percent and up to 30% of the gross social product. The reasons for the emergence of the grey economy are, of course, the most common in the pursuit of greater profits, but we must not overlook the fact that there is a gray economy for other reasons, particularly social ones, such as the preservation of financial social assistance or the provision of basic means of survival. Often, the reasons for escaping into the grey economy are the high tax burden or administrative obstacles, including the long, expensive and complex procedures for obtaining permits to carry out certain activities that discourage the debtors from otherwise intending to carry out legal work. In order to effectively combat the grey economy, more measures must be taken at the state level and not just the pursuit of the grey economy. In particular, we note the need to remove administrative barriers, moderate tax burdens and such a social policy that will discourage work in the grey economy. As an example of excessive administrative burdens, let me mention only the conduct of the care of older persons at home, where the rules for carrying out activities are unreasonable and very difficult for an individual to meet. Taxation of revenues from the grey economy is particularly an important source of budgetary revenue during the public financial crisis, particularly in Slovenia, where the crisis is particularly long and extremely deep. In New Slovenia we support taxation of those entities that hide their assets and do not pay taxes. Of course, an appropriate way must be found to address this problem. We are committed to encouraging those who are committed to self-declaring all undeclared and untaxed assets. For these purposes, a wider campaign and public awareness of the possibility of voluntary declaration of property will be required. The debtors must also be given sufficient time to collect data on the existence of the source of their assets from accounts, bank statements, contracts, court decisions and the like. In determining the amount of the taxable base and the assessment of taxes on unannounced income, account will have to be taken of the existence or rather of the lack of adequate written documentation for certain incomes. Under the current legislation, certain legal transactions are not subject to a prescribed form and an oral agreement is sufficient for the establishment of the transaction. We're talking about gift contracts for money, real estate, for loans, for rental contracts, for movables and the like. Some of the revenue of taxable persons resulting from this Treaty, in particular inheritances and gifts between persons of the first succession, is not subject to taxation. The debtors will be able to show income and direct documentary evidence will not be able to postpone. It also makes sense for us to set a lower limit for the introduction of the inspection procedure for the introduction of the tax procedure for the assessment of unannounced property taxes. Such a lower limit may also be relatively low, for example EUR 50 000 or perhaps even lower, but the functioning of the Tax Administration in these procedures must be geared towards identifying and taxing unannounced incomes of greater value, which will also have appropriate fiscal effects, which is the basic objective of the bill. As has already been said, Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act. In the next step, we expect that the amendments to the draft law that we have pointed out in our position will be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u48	Your Honor! The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the amendment of the law. In principle, I would support any law with such content, irrespective of the applicant, irrespective of the colour of the government and regardless of the composition of the coalition. It seems reasonable to support such amendments to the tax procedure, which benefit taxpayers who regularly fulfil their tax obligations. I would point out that the Group of Members regularly raised issues related to the functioning of the tax system and tax policy. So we asked ourselves about the efficiency of tax collection, the organisation of tax administrations, the number and competence of tax control, the pace of the reform of the information system, the extent of tax evasion, the tax abolition, the tax bills, the grey economy and, last but not least, the tax gap in particular. So, the topics most of which deal with the amendment of the law, or more comprehensible, are a tax assessment of the unannounced income of the taxpayer. In its reports, the tax administration has long seen an increase in the number of cases where the assessment of the tax base shows a significant discrepancy between the assets acquired or the consumption and revenues reported to the tax authority. In doing so, control in this area has proved to be an effective measure in detecting tax evasion. There is also a case law that confirms the decisions of the tax authority. On the basis of a few years of practice and experience, the law is able to improve, in particular in the procedure of the assessment of the tax on unannounced expenditure, as well as in the procedure, which is the law of work, tax inspection and tax enforcement in the part relating to auctions and the abuse and delaying of this procedure. As a rule, the taxable person fulfils the tax obligation in one of the three ways; the taxation, then through a tax withdrawal and the third on the basis of a tax assessment decision, when the tax authority determines the tax on the basis of the taxable person’s declaration or the tax control record. That's the rule. Of course, we deviate from the rule in some cases where none of the classical ways of fulfilling the tax liability are taken into account, whether it is impossible to apply it or not, for very different reasons. At that time, in the practice of developed tax systems, the Institute of Valuation of Tax Bases and the Institute of Property Reporting shall be used. The institutes are indisputably interconnected. The asset declaration institution is not compulsory and the tax authority uses it as a means of determining or appreciating the reasons for the imposition of the metering procedure, as well as later taking into account the information obtained in determining or appreciating the tax base. Unlike the declaration of assets, it is considered to be compulsory. This allows the same factual situation to be taxed equally. Therefore, it is self-evident that, if the specific case meets the conditions of valuation and thus eligibility, the tax authority must assess the tax base and not allow it to have any discretion as to whether or not the valuation will be carried out. Otherwise, the Tax Procedure Act does not allow any of the tax authorities' will in the valuation procedure. A possible interpretation justifying the discretionary right of the tax authority on this issue is therefore, in the light of the principle of legality and the principle of equal treatment of taxpayers, not to be able to withstand a legal test. This is particularly true because there are also opinions that this novelty here and there is a violation of the legal protection of the debtors. Tax valuation is also special in terms of the subject matter of taxation. Also in this respect, it deviates noticeably from the classic dose. The subject matter of the valuation is not the specific income of the taxable person, which should be highlighted in particular, received in a specific year, as provided for, for example, by the Income Act. The subject matter of taxation is the difference found with high probability between private consumption, including normal property, and the income forecasted by the taxable person. Finally, let me give you two more facts we can't get past. First of all, the use of tax base valuation is completely comparable to that of European countries. And secondly and lastly, as has already been pointed out in the views of other parliamentary groups today, the amendment of the law is also part of a project related to the fight against the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not oppose, in fact we support solutions that represent a greater, more efficient functioning of the Tax Administration and a more equitable collection of taxes. As a result, it is also one of the ways to do so, either this proposed law or the proposed novels. The content of this novelty relates mainly to one area, namely the area of taxation of the tax base for natural persons, in particular in cases where the actual consumption of taxable persons is not equal to the forecast income, in particular in accordance with the Income Act. In such cases, the tax authority, in this case the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, may assess this difference and tax this difference by 70 %. To this end, there are also grounds for assessing the assets. This is certainly the difference between actual assets and actual revenues over a given period. This institution has been in use for the past years, I think, since 2007, at least in accordance with a similar solution, where, of course, this institution has lasted five years, which means that the taxpayers have been reviewed for the last five years. Which means whether they have actually achieved such a level of assets over the last five years, which has significantly deviated from the revenues forecast in the income forecast. Now it's ten years old and there's no problems here, no problems. Finally, this period could be extended for a longer period and would, of course, also cover several taxpayers. The next solution offered by this law is the tax procedure itself, or tax supervision, where, in terms of efficiency, the proceeds of this tax would be increased, or in terms of efficiency, a final interview with the taxpayer would be discontinued. On the other hand, the taxable person would still be aware of important facts and, on the one hand, at least of those taxable persons who cannot be suspected in advance of being tax evasion may also constitute less legal certainty or less information, but we know that this is one of the fundamental principles of the tax procedure. There is certainly a need to consider, in particular, the solutions that will also give taxpayers certain legal certainty. In fact, if on the one hand we have measures that are much more rigorous, even more restrictive for those who hide or want to tax evasion, we must, of course, also have measures for those who regularly pay their obligations. With regard to the enforcement of movable property, in particular to improve the process of public auction sales, we have no problems. I think that some of the movements that have been seized could also be used by tax or state authorities. This is also the case in some other countries. The provisions of certain laws should, of course, be amended accordingly. Then there would also be no problem with certain movables, especially cars, standing in parking lots for years and years and losing their value. If these seized cars could be used by public authorities, such as Durs or the police, then the matter would be much easier and it would probably result in fewer purchases. Some countries have such a solution and should probably also be considered in our country. The Institute for Ending Obsolescence. Here it must be said that it is certainly necessary to set a deadline. Today we have a relative maturity of five years, an absolute maturity of ten years. In other words, these periods are not so short and should certainly look at what the time frame is actually that maximum. Indeed, this is also in connection with the legal security of taxpayers. If I somehow sum up these solutions, and then I'll say a few more words about what's not in this law, and maybe it could be, then we can find that there are tightening solutions to undeclared property, which we welcome. The efficiency of enforcement is increased mainly by the efficiency of public auction sales, the expiry date is extended and, after all, the tax control process itself is expected to be actually faster and more effective. However, the question is certainly raised here why the Government did not in fact state any financial effects. After all, the Government also introduces 70% of taxes, additionally high 70% of taxes, but there are no financial effects in the section on financial effects. I therefore propose that, on the basis of the actual situation, on the basis of an asset review, which is already possible today, I have mentioned that it is already possible to determine the difference between the actual assets and the revenues of the taxable person, this is what is happening, these procedures are taking place. I think it would be right for the Government to introduce us in the next process, how many of these procedures have been taken and how much tax has been collected. Based on these procedures, it is likely that the financial impact can also be found to continue, especially if 70% of the taxes on undeclared income are now being imposed. This is certainly a question that I think must be clarified in further procedures, and I do not think that this will be much trouble either. The next question is whether, as we amend the Tax Procedure Act, we also cover other areas that are not currently mentioned. I think that in this case the law must be supplemented primarily by solutions that will reduce the so-called grey economy. I know that these solutions also exist in other laws, but the grey economy is the primary tax issue and also the primary tax problem. We cannot always compare the grey economy with those solutions that are now proposed when we actually find the difference between income and property, and this may already be due to the grey economy, or because of the black economy, or as a result of some crimes, which I will also talk about. In other words, this law must also contain solutions to prevent the grey economy. The numbers here are different, we have already heard today, from 25% of gross social product, a little less – this is mainly about how someone defines a gray economy and what is actually a gray economy; how far does good-neighbourly aid go, then it depends on what is actually a gray economy. In short, this law should also propose the concept of the resolution of the grey economy. However, this concept of the resolution of the grey economy is certainly not in favour of increasing taxes in this country. We've been increasing taxes in the last six months. Higher taxes, higher is the grey economy, this is kind of a principle that is known not only in this country, but also in other countries. Not only is it repression that we are talking here now about repressive articles and repressive provisions, but it is also necessary for taxpayers to have easy access to work and also to pay taxes easily. In this case, there are solutions, which are also in some other countries, that a natural person, whether registered or not, may not actually be registered as a sole entrepreneur, issue an account. Why can't I issue an account if he does something and charges it? Of course, it is therefore necessary to seek solutions in this connection regarding the taxation of such a service. So there's a lot of solutions here. I think there is some knowledge at the Ministry of Finance about this, and these solutions should also be included in this law. The next area that this law does not deal with is tax confidentiality. We have extremely great problems with so-called tax secrecy. In fact, almost everything is tax confidentiality. And the definition of tax confidentiality, which is now in the Tax Procedure Act, I do not think it follows the time in which we actually are. Very often, I'll say Durs excuses that "can't give any information because it's tax confidentiality". After all, we can also read or hear this in the media and, after all, because of this, the taxpayers or taxpayers do not get the relevant information, or many things are hidden in the mist, and many things are never determined what was actually the underlying problem in such a case and so on. For this reason, I think we should redefine the tax confidentiality institution in accordance with the economic situation itself and the financial situation in which we are. This means that we will have to – and that already the taxpayers, the taxpayers are paying more and more things, including banks and so on, and will, of course, require more and more where their money actually goes. That is how I think that this effort should be made and tax confidentiality also resolved. The following question is also raised, or the following:rA but there is a conflict between the Institute of Self-Login and the assessment of the tax base? In other words, on the one hand, the taxpayer can apply himself; on the other hand, he is taxed in such cases with 70% and the issue of criminal policy is put here. We know that if he turns himself in, then he's not being punished, if he doesn't apply, he's being punished, but he can apply at the last minute and so forth. The next issue to be resolved under this law or any other law is the complementarity of the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act, which introduces 70 % of the tax on undeclared property, with the provisions of the applicable Law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. Indeed, we also have this law, which provides that the procedure may be carried out for a period of five years before the year in which the offence was committed. The Public Prosecutor of the investigation directs the work of Durs, Curs and other competent state authorities and raises the first fundamental question; if any property is taxed, whether it can be confiscated. In view of the fact that the property is taxed, the State actually legalizes it in some way, and in this case it could be concluded that it could not, in fact, also be confiscated if it is obtained in a manner that constitutes offences. Here, of course, I ask whether this is possible or not, especially because the procedures are now under the new Tax Procedure Act for ten years, and after the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin for five years. In short, I propose that, in the future, this procedure, which deals with similar content, the Government will examine, give us clear answers in this regard, give us certain financial data on what has already happened in this area, and also present to us the financial effects of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u52	Respected and respected! Social Democrats are hearing a clear demand from people who demand that all those who have caused this enormous financial hole in Slovenia be brought to justice. That all those who have used financial fraud not only profited from themselves but also caused great economic and social damage to the entire economic system are also sanctioned by the confiscation of illegally acquired property. The Law on the Tax Procedure and its amendments are understood as a step towards achieving these ambitions, and we also attach this ambition as a political group. Nevertheless, we must stress that the rule of law cannot be built by legally contested steps, so that illegality cannot be combated in an illegal way. Let me therefore introductoryly say that today, in this general debate, the Social Democrats will accompany the law into a follow-up procedure, but our conduct in this law will nevertheless be the decisive opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is not yet known at this stage of the procedure. As regards the type of solutions in the proposed law, it can be argued that at least they are constitutionally controversial and that the dilemma in this regard needs to be clarified very clearly. To ensure that when we adopt this law, we are fully convinced that we have put in place legal solutions to prosecute unwanted social practices from tax evasion to other forms of property acquisition in an illegal way. This country has already happened, only in a hurry to catch the bastards, a number of innocent people have also been received in the midst of a poorly regulated state. Such a case, which has not yet met its political and illegal epilogue, is, for example, a case of deleted companies, a problem that began in Slovenia in 1999. It is quite possible that, in order to catch tax evasioners, we will also target the types of innocent people who, due to the low level of legal certainty and the heavy burden of the reverse burden of proof in the tax procedure, will be lost in a non-legitimate but legally poorly regulated matter and the process of prosecution and detection of tax evasion. Undeclared taxpayers' incomes are undoubtedly a pressing problem in Slovenia. It is also dealt with by several state authorities. Until recently, only the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which taxed undeclared revenues, dealt with this area. The property registration project, as in Durs, is quite common in European countries, but some countries have also identified undeclared income as a crime of tax evasion and tax procedures have changed criminal procedures. Just as we have regulated powers of prosecution under the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, which, according to the reply to yesterday's question by the President of the Government, is rare and none of these procedures have yet been brought to an end. Control over the income of natural persons must not be underestimated, but we must look at it very widely. Slovenia is identified as a country where corruption is a central systemic problem and its consequences are a catastrophic economic and financial crisis and the collapse of the rule of law and the social state. The most reliable research on the grey economy shows a red alarm for supervisory authorities, as there are hidden taxes for several billion euros, some estimates for about a quarter of gross domestic product. Black work is almost impossible to control, as both stakeholders profit from corruption, at least in the short term. In view of the above, it seems the only right way to combat such work is to effectively and systematically control the income of natural persons. The fact is that the current system of taxation of undeclared income is not satisfactory. In practice and in professional circles, there are growing issues of controversy, which have not yet been raised, nor has the Constitutional Court. The property application project carried out by the tax authority must comply with fundamental human rights, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the principles of the tax procedure and the protection of personal data. In accordance with the principle of equality, the control of undeclared income should apply to all tax residents of Slovenia, and in our case, taxpayers should be chosen arbitrarily, and there are no valid criteria for selection. In certain cases, it is impossible to convince the tax authority that this is a given fact, since the tax authority requires something that is impossible to prove. The system of control over undeclared income, as implemented by the tax authority, needs to be thoroughly regulated. It will be necessary to find systemic solutions that will satisfy all legal standards and not only satisfy the masses on short notice, but also provide high legal protection for all taxpayers. Let me mention some of the things that disturb us in this law and very plastic cases that suggest that it would be virtually impossible for the tax authority to prove the innocence of those who are in the investigation. Take the example of a father giving his son his long - standing cash savings that he had collected in cash over the years. Let's say we're talking 50,000 euros. In the past, Father kept these at home, in cash – in Slovenia we have a tradition of collecting savings in the Smurf – and at some point give these collected savings to his son to solve his housing problem. There is no document between the father and the son, and there is no contract between them to arrange the transfer of this cash from the father to the son. The cash flow is therefore not visible because it was a cash transfer and no one was reporting gifts to the tax authority. It is true that this is mandatory for gifts of more than EUR 5,000 if parents donate to a child, such transfer of property is not taxed. The problem is that the tax inspector of this kind will never admit it, even if it is real. The findings of the inspector, namely that there is no documentary evidence that there is no visible cash and financial flow, the gift was also not notified to the tax authority, and often the donor or borrower also shows too little past income for the transfer of so much cash, possible credit from the donor or the lender, and thus more likely to show in favour of a fictitious gift than against it. The cash savings of the tax authority in the evidentiary process do not take into account, although Banka Slovenije regularly reports on the cash situation in circulation, moving between €3 billion and €7 billion. But we all know what it's like to have savings in cash and that this is an important part of our national culture. In tax procedures, this cash appears to be taxed in full. To doubt the existence of cash, for example because of a credit obligation, it is not unusual, as the alleged tax authority does in the evidentiary process, as Slovenia also owes itself and maintains deposits in domestic banks. The tax authority shall distinguish between possession of a cash which is not recognised and the money in an account abroad which it recognises. The transfer of cash across the national border shall also be reported only if it exceeds the statutory amount. According to the Bond Code, there is no specific form of gift or loan contracts. The Succession Act provides that there is no taxation in the first succession and it is logical that money cannot be seen outside third parties. In the light of the provisions of the Bond Code, a gift contract can only be concluded by means of final acts and there is no need to document a legal transaction. Another problem is to raise and deposit cash on a personal transaction account. The fact is that the tax inspectors consider cash withdrawals to be personal consumption and do not consider cash positions as a source of funds, even if it may be cash raised previously: I raise part of the money from the bank account and then put it back down again. While the rise will be understood as my personal consumption, I will put the suspicion that it will be impossible to prove where the money I have previously raised will be put back in the account. Thus, according to practice, the tax authority considers such cash withdrawals to be undeclared income, even if the same money is circulating. So if we exclude any interest on loans because someone raises money to borrow some amount of money, the interest on it is essentially not going to change the assets of such a debtor. If it were in the tax procedure as defined by this law, the tax authority would consider all cash withdrawals to be personal consumption and would take into account it in calculating the tax base of unannounced income, even if the expenditure is to an extreme extent unannounced only, for example, interest on the loans given. I'm referring to hypothetical cases, but they're real cases. Such cases also need to be taken into account when we standardise and redefinition the tax procedure, so that in this ambition, we do not create a legally unsustainable and fragile environment in which we can actually hunt innocents. Therefore, we need to pay particular attention in the tax investigation segment in defining methods for assessing the tax base for incriminating, as is said in the appropriate definition of tax evasion as a criminal offence, even because there are other legal standards in place before the court. We must also be concerned about the standard of legal certainty. Everyone has to be able to defend himself in the right way. And one detail, this law abolishes the Institute of Final Interview, even though it is widely used and also the taxpayers who have been investigated in the property application project are in fact highly interested in participating in this interview, if not because of another fact that it undoubtedly contributes to the realization of the principle of awareness and the principle of legal certainty. We believe that there will also be considerable debate in the next process on the appropriateness of raising the tax rate to 70%, especially the question of extending the period of control to 10 years from the current level of five years. In particular, we point out that, after this system, some of the taxpayers will be dealt with over a five-year period, and some in the 10th and the question, if nothing else, will also be the principle of equality. This issue must also be considered by strict criteria for the prohibition of retroactive law enforcement. Social Democrats would prefer to be defined in a legally correct way by a zero point, encourage citizens to register their assets and report them to the tax authority. In this way, we would define some zero level of property, and in the coming years, we could figure out where it's coming from, I'll say, up to the tax gap. Today we do not have this zero situation defined, and it is therefore important to be very careful that, in legitimate expectation, all those who have illegally acquired their assets, which have cheated or worse, have compromised the economic and social stability of the country in an appropriate but legally corrected manner. There are no links to the rule of law. Therefore, in our general ambition to come to an appropriate settlement of this issue – and hopefully in the light of the opinions expressed in this assembly – we also support this law with a high degree of consensus, but in the process to ensure that high legal standards and standards are also met. This will only be possible when such or other interpretation of the potentially controversial provisions of this Act is also determined by the Legislative and Legal Service. At this stage, we will accompany the Social Democrats to further address the law with ambition to strengthen legal certainty in the tax process in a way that will not jeopardise the effectiveness of the objectives set by tax control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Mr Marko Pavlisič has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you for the floor, Madam President-in-Office. Your Honors are here! The tax administration has long observed an increase in the number of cases of non-conformity between the declared income of an individual and his or her assets or consumption. So far, there has also been a development of case law that has so far confirmed all decisions of the tax authority and control of this area has proved to be an effective measure in detecting tax evasion. Of course, practice brings new knowledge and legislation needs to be adapted. For only legislation that takes into account the reality and best practice experience is effective legislation. The Law on the Tax Procedure introduces such changes. According to the proposal of the law, the period of control may be up to ten years and will no longer be ours for a concrete year. In general, it is appropriate to take a longer period of time to determine the tax base more correctly when hiding assets abroad. The practice also stems from changes that will prevent delaying the procedure and allow more cost-effective management of the process itself, while not affecting the legal security of the taxpayer. Of course, those who have already tried to avoid the tax are not expected to wait through the deadlines for the completion of the procedure and then go to the bank or to settle the issued bill. That is why it makes sense, and this is also regulated in this law, so that before the issue and enforceability of the decision it can enter a lien right to the debtor's property. The payment of the tax liability is also linked to changes in enforcement, which will also enable enforcement from persons to whom the taxpayer has transferred its assets free of charge or at a lower price than the market price. The law also provides for a new, 70 % rate of taxation in cases where the taxable person has hidden his income and has thus avoided paying taxes. In doing so, we point out that this must not become an instrument for legalising assets from illegal transactions. But it's 70% tax, but punishment, but both? Whether the solution is appropriate or not, the National Assembly will continue to discuss the matter further. The Citizens' List supports all efforts towards reducing the grey and black economy, since by paying taxes to all, the tax rate of an individual can be reduced. We are not satisfied with all the proposed changes, but the direction is the right one. We will therefore confirm in the National Gazette the further way of law in the legislative procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlišič. We have thus concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and continue with the debate of MEPs and Members. The first word is Mrs. Katarina Hočevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! When I try to explain to the citizens why the painful measures of the previous government were needed, why the difficult measures of the current government are needed and why every government will be left, right, conservative or liberal, you do not want to have to impose difficult measures, people will always answer me with the question: "Why don't you take those who have robbed our country? Why don't you pick up those individuals who have come to their property in an unfair way?" I admit that at such times I do not know what I would say to an honest worker, a farmer or an official who is working hard and working hard from month to month, and in the media is listening to contributions on the inefficiency of inspections, the judiciary and also on the inadequacy of legislation. Therefore, I believe that the amendment to the Tax Procedure Act will give the State authorities a new, stronger tool to prosecute irregularities in this area. In practice, the new upgraded law will allow in practice the often misused possibility of delaying the procedure, the unpaid tax will be made available under new conditions, including through connected persons. However, in the event of the failure of the sale of the entangled property, if, of course, the debtor does not wish to take over it, it may be waived free of charge to humanitarian organisations or other institutions. The changes, as I see them, follow two related objectives: increasing the effectiveness of legislation and making it a stronger tool for the tax authority, including allowing the burden of crisis situations to be shared between those who have properly borne their share so far and those who have managed to avoid it. At the same time, of course, as liberals, some questions and concerns are also raised when this law is in force. Lately, we've been raising taxes, supporting property, saving banks, raising fines. It seems to me that the country is increasingly getting involved in every aspect of our lives, which I think is wrong. For we liberals are always critical to the expansion of state powers and to repressive power. Unfortunately, in times of crisis, too, the area of control and punishment is widening because people are willing to give up an ever-increasing part of freedom because of pursuing greater security and a sense of justice. This law, I hope, will not be understood as opening a hunting season for all and for all who have managed to create property in a fair manner. I therefore hope that media professionals do not understand it as a new tool for discrediting individuals. I hope that politicians, citizens and the media will have before us that property ownership is not bad if it is obtained in a legitimate way. The additional power given to the State by this law requires additional responsibility from officials and from all other citizens an additional measure of reason and avoidance of overly human judgment that may prove to be criminal. I will support the law at first reading, because I believe it can have positive effects for individuals and for society, but at the same time I pledge to closely monitor whether new powers are being used for the purpose for which they were thought or accepted, and not for the modern Inquisition or in a modern way for witch hunting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Fishich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act provides the following main solutions. These can be translated into content sets: the tax on unannounced income, tax inspection, enforcement, retention of arrears, harmonisation with regard to the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and criminal provisions. The new law drawn up by the Government relates in particular to the additional definition of the unannounced or undeclared income of natural persons and procedures in this regard. We certainly welcome this in the Slovenian People's Party, because despite existing legislation allowing tax control over individuals whose consumption and property far exceeds their income, and despite the existing and existing Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, there is still little in practice in this area, far too little. In the explanations of the individual articles, it is often the practice of the tax authority to determine how the tax authority detects cases, the tax authority observes such and different practices and, on the basis of this, the proposed amended solutions are proposed. I think that this is the right way, and this is how law enforcement should be carried out in very close cooperation, is said with those who have to implement the law, because only they really know what problems they face in the field. The other solutions are real problems, but we have also known the instrument of calling for the declaration of property and valuation on the basis of the data selected to date. Such procedures started in 2008. Sadly, only about 200 of them have been performed since then, according to the information given in the law. Given that some more than €30 million of the additional taxes were charged from these controls at that time, we are surprised that the intensity is not higher, since this is on average EUR 162 000 of the additional tax collected on one tax basis. We are really interested in the opinion of the competent authorities whether they are assessing the number of these controls for a sufficient amount of tax revenue. The key novelty of this law is therefore the tax on unannounced income. Here is the 70% tax rate; whether it is real or not, it is difficult to say, but we must somehow link it to the Institute of Self-Login. Thus, it is appropriate to welcome the amendments in the law which finally regulate tax enforcement for tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. The next is Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Citizens claim that all those who have taken part in it are illegal, property and who are also guilty or are guilty of the recession in which our country today is to bring them to justice and that their unjustifiable assets are also confiscated. Therefore, I believe that this law, which we are considering, is also one of the laws that will contribute to the taking away of this unjustifiable property. The proposal for a law amending the Tax Procedure Act brings important changes, which, of course, I support, and I will also vote in favour of the law being suitable for further consideration. In its debate, however, it would limit itself to the two institutes introduced by law. First, it would touch on the disproportionately identified property – the introduction of a tax on unannounced income exceeding the income that the taxable person had forecasted in the tax forecast. It is therefore a disproportionately high income of illegal origin and the taxable person of that origin cannot justify it. In this case, the law provides for the taxation of such assets of 70%. I also support this level of taxation. The second institute that I would like to comment on is the new institute of depreciation introduced by this amendment of the law. For reasons of actual and legal nature, the tax authority has no influence on the limitation period and it is therefore necessary to regulate such an expiry date. In practice, there is a lack of tax debt also due to procedures carried out outside this tax procedure, i.e. with other authorities, such as courts, and also governed by other rules. The fact is that in such a case, the tax authority cannot carry out tax enforcement, which is why there are write-offs due to outdated claims. In order to avoid such deductions of a tax debt due to a relative limitation of five years or an absolute limitation period of ten years, this amendment of the law proposes to determine the cessation of such limitation for a time when it is not possible to conduct tax enforcement under law. A similar situation is also taking place in the legacy proceedings, and we have already heard that today, when in individual cases this succession procedure is taking place in court for a very long time. So there are long-term procedures. In this case, too, the limitation period for the recovery of the debt, and in this case the use of heirs with obligations belonging to the State, shall take place. The heirs who have been or have been identified always assume, if they wish to inherit, all the rights and obligations of the deceased, and thus, due to the long-term succession procedure, as I have already said, the write-off of tax claims. Like I said, I'll support the marriage as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat. It's mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u62	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the so - called taboo of darkness; we are kind of closing our eyes about the darkness or things we know are happening around us. All of us are well aware of the many examples that surround us, many of whom are spoken of. One of these cases is certainly the most exposed and is encountered by virtually all parents who drive their children to kindergarten when someone brings their child to a kindergarten in a vehicle worth 150 000 euros, but on the other hand has a free kindergarten. This is the most eloquent example where it can be found very quickly and very clearly that something here is not a deck, that income and property are not actually proportional. Of course, I don't want to go into too many details that no one will say that I've started with the darkness, but in spite of everything I've heard, and there have been various sons of Ljubljana's influences in the media who have actually reported to the State, the Tax Administration some more than 50,000 euros, while at ATMs they also raised more than ten thousand euros a day. Here too, there is clear evidence that certain things are not being spilt and that there is a huge imbalance between declared revenues and actual assets. When we are in the crisis that we are now in, righteousness is the fundamental thing that stands or falls. If we demand people to tighten their belts and if people do not feel that this belt stretching is fairly distributed among all, then at some point they ask themselves why I would pay taxes, why I would agree to solve the crisis, but if neither those who caused it, or those who could give even more, contribute to the resolution of this crisis. That I will not be accused of any cheap populism, let me make it very clear that there is nothing wrong, even desirable if we have rich people in our society, of course, if they have come to their property in a fair manner and if they have paid the state all that is going on. Here two things need to be distinguished, which we are mixing in some way today. One is that someone earns money and doesn't give the country what belongs to it. So, in a way, tax evasion, that's on one side. On the other hand, we have those who get to the property completely along the criminal path. That's two different things. For this first, so - called tax collectors, this law that we are adopting today may have some effect so that a certain part of their disproportionate assets may also be seized. I don't want to be a pessimist, but in a way I'm skeptical of the final results; if the country has any of this law, and if there's any property, then there's going to be a 70 % tax. Why am I saying this? I would remind you of a law that also belongs to this topic and is called the Law on the Seizure of Illegally Acquisition of Property, which was passed two years ago, which I also spoke of yesterday. The Justice Minister himself reported that no assets had been seized to date or that no proceedings had been completed in this regard. These are the things I'm worried about. I hope and wish that the results of this law, which we will adopt today, will be achieved, however, that there will also be people who would be taxed by the State 70% of what property they cannot explain how they came to it. However, I would like to point out that in two years' time, when we talk again about the results of this law, we do not want to find out the same thing as in the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Property. I often wonder why this is possible in other Balkan and Western European countries, why this is not possible in Slovenia. Yesterday, I explained that in Serbia alone, in the first year of the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Property, they seized or confiscated 100 million euro of assets, in Italy they seized over 100 million a month, in Germany alike. We do not have these results in Slovenia. I ask myself, and I am also competent to ask whether there is a problem in people, or whether there is a problem in legislation, because there must be a problem somewhere. If there is a problem in people, then something is wrong with the Slovenian judiciary, but if there is a problem in law, then please let us, Members, know how and how these laws need to be rectified so that illegally acquired property can be taken away – a simple guide. In short, I hope and wish that this law will be a step in the right direction and that after two years we will be able to assess some concrete results.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonin. The next is Mr Jerko Čehovin, followed by Aljoša Jerič and Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. In our client Positive Slovenia we strongly support the changes and additions to the Tax Procedure Act. I think it is also clear from the introductory words made today by the representatives of the parliamentary groups that this is supported by practically the entire Parliament. And it's only right that this is being discussed. The law, which contains these content sets of taxes on unannounced income, tax inspection, tax enforcement, retention of obsolescence, harmonisation with respect to amendments to the PPA and criminal provisions in a more coherent and better way, defines what we call a tax gap, which is, in fact, never implemented in practice. In doing so, we are somehow approaching or coordinating legislation, if I say so, with more normal countries and, on the other hand, it is a powerful tool to fight against the grey economy, where tax evasion is the main source of this grey economy. So, I repeat, from this point of view, we absolutely support the law. In doing so, I would just like to separate the concepts a little bit, because I have heard a lot in today's debates on assets, so-called illegal property, but I think that this tax is more of a target for so-called undeclared property. Unlawful property must already be governed by other authorities, from the police, the prosecution, the courts and so on, while this second part is actually a tool that gives the tax authority the opportunity to make it more effective. But, of course, I would like to point out that we can achieve this greater efficiency not only, I will say, with some political will or with a change of legislation, but mainly by having people who are actually working on it, driven, sacrificed and somehow, I will say, also responsible for taking these things. In fact, every marriage, if it is not followed by the people implementing this law, is predestined to fail. Unfortunately, we know from practice that we have passed too many laws that have never lived in practice. I hope and I am sure that this law will not be the case and indeed, despite some legal concerns, I have them myself, I believe that we must accompany this law into further procedures, that we must give it support and for all those who will implement the provisions of this law to stand behind them and give them full support. Not that, as usual, we will then begin to appear as some of the lawyers of individual social groups, when a group like this is affected, I will say, in a way, it serves these customs, which are not exactly an honor, these are tax evasions. And I'm not just talking about innkeepers who are now accidentally subject to these tax controls, but I'm not just talking about hoteliers if they don't report guests. We have a number of other personal services where these things are largely hidden, and if you want, even such eminent professions as lawyers, and some where we have these things that don't work the way they should and should. In doing so, I would like to say that I hope that this change of legislation will not bring back to us those campaign reactions that we have had – at least some of the older ones here – during the time of the former state when so-called wealth commissions were being established in the municipalities. These commissions have also served on numerous occasions for political accounting between and within the sole parties. I don't think this can be a campaign action, but it must be part of our normal work and life in this country. Paying taxes can't be an exception, but it has to become a rule. And people who pay taxes have to feel satisfied that this tax has been settled and thus their obligation to the country in which they live. But I think we have the opposite many times, that if I use the human name, it is the guy who brings the country around. It also helps to a great extent, I will say, the maturity and level of the debate we have in the National Assembly. I repeat, we will not achieve anything if we put ourselves in the defence of individual groups, we will say, because they may not be, and we will screw them too much and so on. Some such records have now appeared in public. Of course, it is clear that this law aims primarily at those where it is visible — what some colleagues have already said before me — and who are clearly living in a lifestyle that is not in line with the declared income and what they are legally acquiring. This means that we really need to constantly and continuously verify implementation and say once again; people are the ones, especially those responsible at the Tax Administration, inspectors and others, who will enforce this law, that these tools, which Parliament will now give to them, are also being implemented in a way that will be effective, better and will also help to make the level of the grey economy, which is in Slovenia, according to some data, 8.3 gross social product, significantly lower. Once again, in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Chehovin. Mr Jerič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. First of all, let me welcome the fact that, as we hear here, all Members agree with the proposed amendments, of course, this is only the first consideration, so that in the course of the next legislative procedure these various opinions will become even more precise, but only the fact that this is one of the problems that we have, I am pleased that somehow all of us here recognise it. Why is it important to reduce the grey economy? What do we gain by reducing the grey economy? I will list some areas in which the reduction of the grey economy has a positive impact, namely increasing revenue in the budget, both in the form of income and VAT and corporate income tax. The reduction of the grey economy further increases equality between citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, between those who respect the rule of law and those who do not respect the rule of law. Next, equality also increases between companies, since an entity or a craftsman working without an account is more competitive than one that consistently respects the rule of law. Thus, we eliminate unfair competition between service providers and products. Finally, by reducing the grey economy, we also have a starting point for just reducing the tax rates and thus burdening the economy. We know that we all want public kindergartens, education, health care, decent pensions and all the other goods that the state offers us through tax collection. As a result, by reducing the grey economy, we are increasing our level and culture of coexistence and self-respect as a whole. If the smallness touches on the main solutions envisaged in the novel, namely the tax procedure itself, the first mentioned definition of the tax dose of the unannounced income is 70 %. The next solution is tax inspection in the sense that the novelty accelerates the procedure and prevents the avoidance of a taxable person from participating in the proceedings, while not reducing the legal security of the taxable person. The next solution is in the area of tax enforcement, which introduces a greater efficiency of tax enforcement, since the amendment provides that, if it was not possible to recover the tax from the property, because it was prescribed just before the procedure for immediate family members, this tax may be eliminated in such cases also from this prescribed property to the immediate family members. The other solutions, only in a quick fashion, are: retention of the statute of limitations, harmonisation with regard to the amendment of the PPE and other criminal provisions. One of the main solutions, as some mentioned earlier, is essentially the valuation process. Why is appreciation in a given situation such an important instrument? Research carried out by some universities and Eurostat shows that the grey economy is present in many sectors. So here I have the research data that was made for countries from Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland, Romania and Turkey, we are talking about average data. The grey economy is between 30% and 35% of GDP in the construction sector, 20% of wholesale and retail. Then there is the same percentage practically in the area of hotels and restaurants and there is a slight decrease in production and then there are transport services, agricultural sectors, personal care services, other health services, real estate; in short, these sectors are much larger than we can see. This is a very widespread issue. That is how I agree with those who say that it is necessary to prevent a grey economy from emerging instead of finding out when it has already happened. However, it is more than obvious that because of the scale we have just seen and the fact that there is a very discreet process in the grey economy, as it is the interest of those who exercise the grey economy to remain discreet and the dispersion of the sector, where this is the case, that prevention alone can be very inefficient and time-consuming. Therefore, I am convinced that the consistent implementation of the so-called tax gap instrument is a significant difference between the assets shown and the revenues explained, an essential instrument for preventing the grey economy already in existence, as it provides an assurance to the potential offender that if it carries out the grey economy, it will be exposed and also sanctioned. For a moment, I think it is important, given the implementation of my colleague, Mr Frangež, where he gave an example of his father's giving his son a saving worth 50 000 euros in order to help his son build a house. I really don't see any problems here, because I imagine that the tax inspector will check in this case whether the father with the declared income was able to save that amount. Thus, if it turns out that Father had an extremely low salary in the last ten years, it is more than clear that 50 thousand could not be saved and that this is therefore very likely to be undeclared income. In this case, father will probably have a problem, not a son. However, if it turns out that Father has been receiving very high incomes for the past ten years — this is all verifiable in income, in income forecast — then I really don’t see any problems here. In short, we wouldn't be too long, because it's just the first reading. Finally, I would like to make one point: that waiting for others to do their duty first is the best excuse not to do our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Jerich. Mr. Franz Pukšič is next. After him, mag. A visor, then a mag. Vogrin and Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, nice greeting! Under the Tax Procedure Act, I will lean somewhat on the letter sent by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, saying that they agree that the incursion of the grey and black economy would be as large as possible. We probably agree with that, but once again, if it's a black economy or a gray economy going to help a neighbor harvest or harvest feed, then it's nonsense. They agree that taxation is necessary for those who hide their property, which is taxable, i.e. their income or profits, but was not taxable. I will ask you, representatives of the government, as they wrote here in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, I do not know these things so much, and you will have the opportunity to say publicly here, they say that they have already warned you many times – or not you, but the Ministry of Finance – why certain matters are such a determination of the tax base, certain tax rates, tax liabilities and so on in the Tax Procedure Act, why it is not in the Income Act. I don't know, but I'd like to hear about what they're pointing out and why it's so or why it's no different because they say tax law itself is complicated. Of course, it's not good to get involved. Then they say in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry that extending the possibility of inspection from five to ten years is too long. Well, here I don't agree with them, I think it's necessary to extend here even to 20 years, but not just 10 years; in short, completely backwards. They then say that taxpayers must have clear instructions on the type, content and form of credible evidence of the resources by which they financed their assets, so this must be defined in the law. Obviously it is not clear enough and it would be good for this to be supplemented in the following legislation so that there will be as little discretion as possible in the decision-making of tax inspectors. Because when it comes to discretion, it can move on if they get a little bit used to each other, even to other things than it does. In the Chamber of Commerce and Industry it is then said that the minimum amount to which such a procedure would not begin should be determined; whether it is 50 000, 100 000, 200 000. I don't think that this amount could be any higher for her not to have a problem with Comrade Frangez, we're not gonna figure out if his father's already given him 50 grand, and he hasn't reported it to him to have and survive, to buy an apartment. I don't care either, up to 50,000, where they won't be able to prove their origins, it's probably not the biggest problem, because that would "bath" into some small things, but the point would go away. So here I would have no objection if it were about 100,000; that is, big things, for those who actually incriminated Slovenian companies that incriminated Slovenian banks, for those who incriminated Slovenian municipalities and so on and so on. So, where did these assets go? One gentleman stated at the 2007 press conference that he was confident and therefore said that no fiche would go into the investment they were making from the municipal budget. And even everyone believed him. This same congregation, headed by the same gentleman, today owes 63.7m euros. So, I want to know where that property went, that 63.7 million. Did it go to companies like, what do I know, Grep or CML or something? That should be determined by now. And now there are not those poor French fifty thousand euros; let him have, if his father had given him out of the Smurf, thank God. My sons, you know, won't get that much because I have three children — every little thing, if I'm going to inherit something. However, I am concerned that my father can give more than a million euros to his son, and he only declares 50,000 euros — which I am worried about — but the tax authorities find out, and some of them today are Members of Parliament, sometimes work in justice, and they don't do, they don't do, they don't do, they don't do, because of course, they cover certain lobbyes. This is what my colleague Frangež was talking about, and I agree with them here, these are so-called incriminals. These incriminals need to get on their toes. If I continue; from what the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises proposes or also makes its proposals, I agree with them that the 30-day period from the date of service of the decision on the assessment of the unexplained property tax is significantly too short. I agree. It's too short. Look, it can't be the purpose of this law that when we find out that someone was hiding property, he was taxed for it, but now he has to pay it back in thirty days if he can't. Or to come into a phase to get him into bankruptcy and eventually into a beggar's stick. That's not what this is about. It is about creating, preserving jobs and paying for it. This means that this should be more flexible, for example, for six months, and at that time, you would have had the opportunity to disinvest yourself so that you could sell that property. You know, you can't just sell a hundred and fifty-thousand Euros that your father gave you from the Smurf. You need some time. But let's give them three, four months or six months tops. Then there's another suggestion. They say that the tax rate of 70% of the base, which represented unexplained differences in assets, is significantly too high. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry says that it would be good to separate it to a higher level and to a lower level; the lower rate would be for those so-called self-declarators. It seems to me that we already have a practice, and we've also somehow gotten used to having the police write us a check, minus 50% in eight days. It kind of caught up, I'll say. There's a lot less complaints, and so on, because you know you're gonna have to pay twice as much and so on. Here I would suggest or agree with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but not that 70% is too much – it is not too much! 70% is too low, whether 80% or even more, for those who will not report it as self-declaration. For those who will report this as self-declaration – otherwise, the law states that they will then be taxed under some normally prescribed legislation on such matters – and I would suggest a half of that. If we decided on 80% that someone had to pay from the base of an unexplained difference in property and if they made a self-declaration, it would be 40%. This would then be a fixed one, and this would also be an incentive. But you know, in this self-report, we wouldn't let that happen. I don't know how long. I think a month or two is just enough time to do that, and from here on out, there are no more layoffs. I also agree with the work when they say in the Chamber that the tax authority must also be a partner of the taxpayer. I agree that he must be a partner, because this country also functions and lives. Now that last coordination and so on, which is no longer envisaged by the amendment of the law, I agree with the ministry which has prepared this amendment, also because it is possible to have some other, such or other links and so on. It seems to me that this is in writing and that the matter should work as it should. In short, no absolution once an unexplained source of property has been identified, and no forgiveness until you make your own self-declaration. With regard to the reverse burden of proof, however, there seems to be nothing to suggest that this would be contrary to legislation or that this would affect legal correctness, etc. I think that in the last 22 years in this country there have been too many laws that were not legally correct, because if — what my colleague Frangež was worried about before — if they were, then there would not be 140 thousand unemployed, then there would not be as much corruption as there is in us, then there would not be in the Finances to read how the Factor Bank and Probank would have had and would want tax money and the opening balance sheets would not have been done, because at the opening balance sheet they would know exactly what the debts are. Of course, then it would not have been that these were so-called family banks, where a couple of dedicated cows could have invested ten euros and carried out hundreds of thousands of euros. That's it. [[...]] From Positive Slovenia – wait a minute, no! Don't be nervous when we're talking about the truth and it hurts. If you were there, that's your problem. If you are afraid of this amendment of the Tax Procedure Act, then this is your problem, but you are not protecting some individuals, whom you know are behind it, and who should have already laid accounts for their assets, but they are not, because unfortunately they have created incrimination of the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian state. It is time for such incrimination of this country to end, but I fear that it will not happen to the government of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Franzege, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u70	I have a public confession to make, and that is that my father has unfortunately not given me 50,000 euros, so I have no problem with it. It's a hypothetical case, which I think is a good illustration of possible cases that can be found in this investigation. Earlier, one of the colleagues who had already discussed in my position asked in the interest of which lobby, in the interest of which interest group you are now saying this. Of course, if anyone has listened to the position of our parliamentary group in a casual manner, I understand that perhaps this reflection comes first. Who are you protecting? But let me say that clear procedural rules and clear procedural rights of those found in such procedures are not determined in the interests of the guilty but in the interests of the innocent. As long as you're not proven guilty at some level, you're innocent. There is nothing wrong with the reverse burden of proof in tax procedures. This is established not only in us but also in other comparable laws. However, the problem arises when the exercise of this reverse burden of proof is called evidence initiatives on the part of the examiner, and there is a lack of regulation of his procedural rights. When, for example, the tax authority rejects all justifications and evidence after the current tape, where the fact that it is difficult to prove it is because the documents required by law are simply not. We need to understand this for life reasons, and in assessing these burdens, I will also say, the history of own or average conduct. We simply do not keep all accounts for all possible past years and so on. You know, Mr Jerič, those savings from my father could theoretically have been made a long time ago. But how will we react in the investigation process at that time?Oh, my God! I understand that it is very politically unpopular to speak on this subject from a legal point of view. Because I understand some social mood in which we are, we all want all those who have broken the law to be properly caught and sanctioned. But it must apply to all: through a transparent, clear procedure, which must also give certain procedural rights to those involved in these procedures, without [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Three minutes past the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u73	Instead of mags. Mr Jože Jerovšek and then Mrs Kociper and Mrs Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Tax Procedure Act seems to me in this sense, when proposed, is in fact necessary, but of course it is essential to recognise. That we have such legislation, I see that in all these 20 years, political and capital interest has been in financial circles, that we have bad legislation that has allowed tax evasion without punishment. What brings me to this? Here I would like to point out to the distinguished Madam Secretary of State, representing the Ministry, here the explanation says that the proposed regulation is also comparable to that of other countries. Other countries do not change legislation every 14 days. And these are some standards in countries where the country is operating, where it can't just rob a country, as it has obviously been in Slovenia in the last 20 years. You were aware that such procedures existed that such provisions existed. We have even harmonised with the legislation of such countries, but some things have been deliberately omitted. I'm not accusing you, but I think that even a career period you're moving around in financial circles, you're probably even coming from these financial circles. Yeah, why don't we have comparable legislation in this country? Why did we keep leaving holes in the legislation as in Swiss cheese, that those in fact, some lawmakers knew in advance where the holes were and where the holes would be avoided? This, as it says here, that other countries have such legislation as we are only now introducing, is, for me, you have to admit, shameful for those financiers who have been aware of it and who have already prepared this legislation in the past. The fact that years and decades have taken place in our country and it has been warned that someone has reported, as has been said many times today, 50,000 euros for taxation while at the same time showing up as the greatest motivator, spreading money and not receiving any sanctions! In financial circles, however, everyone knows that this is not a fair way of obtaining property or avoiding taxation. He should already have that money, even if they gave it to him or something, but he didn't pay the tax. I hope that you are not convincing us more fictitiously that it will seem better for people that from now on we will find some such anomalies — for me crimes, absolutely crimes — through the Tax Administration or give them an instrument to recover something of this, let's hope, from now on. Here I find myself having the same doubts, although I somehow want to trust the dacars, the Tax Administration, that it will do so and that it will do so in an unselective manner. I don't mind if you find someone from my client or from my option. If he did so, let him pay, let him be punished, let him turn himself in to the judiciary, and so on. We have to make an order for once! However, as I have said, I am in doubt because the judiciary and law enforcement authorities have not complied with the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin for two years. They're sabotaging. It's sabotage. Someone should be responsible for sabotage because sabotage is a crime. Prosecutors don't report saboteurs, but they should be on official duty. A month or a half ago, Mr Tynikar said on television that 11 billion money had been drained from the economy through banks. I would like to know whether the prosecutors, on an official basis, have brought proceedings against a known or unknown perpetrator. I think we should. We should also ask Mr. Secretary where he's from. Not to accuse the Secretary now, but from who. He didn't say it blindly. He was a minister, a professor, a dean, in the control councils, and he didn't blindly say that. Today it is known that billions and probably billions of unpaid taxes have been stolen. I believe that before the elections an interview was published with the former director of the Tax Administration, who said that the Tax Administration had identified 10,000 transfers into tax havens. And, of course, they started threatening her right away because she obviously wanted to make order back then. Why do I ask that? Is this a serious approach to the current options? Is this more about showing muscle and misleading the public? In fact, the coalition MP said earlier that she would closely monitor it; that she would support it and closely monitor it if it was not just a modern Inquisition and a witch hunt. I believe she has some clues, some information that should be used selectively, and that she's experienced in this, too, a witch hunt. A modern inquisition and a witch hunt. I think you're so honest and honest and transparent that you were serious about this law. Because when we see such obvious cases that someone has set up objects to live on a large foot and I don't know what, at the same time, the state pays almost nothing, then I think that the authorities in this country, from the judiciary and others, have already had instruments to act. But if this is better now and will be in line with the practice of other countries, as it says here, I hope that it will work. I am not afraid, either, when you point out in advance that after this law has been enacted, we will begin to be lawyers of certain social groups, as Mr Čehovin said. Once again, I assure you that I will not defend anyone, and let them come from any logs. In this country, the people have been plundered to the point that we must accept whatever is necessary or possible in this Chamber, for once we will face normal railings in this country. I don't think there are any people here that this marriage would tange. Some power centers show that the National Assembly is the source of all evil, sharing incomes and privileges. That's just not true. Not for the defense of this, but it's a demagogy in this society that thieves can hide, not to light up the thief, but to show your finger, take the thief. And this thief is a lot of times our National Assembly and to stir up hatred for us, for the National Assembly, even if we are striving for a good thing. And it will be a worthless law if another law can be made selective and actually serve to hunt witches, including some perpetrators, but to protect the greatest fugitives, the greatest looters of this country's property, the greatest robbers who have plundered this country. And that can't happen! But answer me why, so far, and I repeat, we haven't had one of these written in the law. Who wrote these laws to make consciously different from what they have in another country? In order to allow this robbery, it is tempting for some to shop, as I don't know what, because they took money that wasn't deserved, that they built feathers and castles and yachts, and I don't know what, and they even exercise social power, they oppress others who do what's right. Why did this happen? I hope that I get this explanation and that you will also say it directly, which was either political will or commissioned at the time. So, I support this law, and I hope that it is one of the first steps to make this country a country of citizens, not just an oligarchy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mrs. Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much. As we all see, our country is almost on its knees, not only as a result of the severe financial and economic crisis, but also as a consequence of the many mistakes that have been made in the past. And if I agree with my opposition colleagues, today the question is why such a law has not been passed before. Why have these few provisions, which may substantially change some matters, not been adopted before? The Government, in which Positive Slovenia participates, adopts a number of laws that strongly affect people's lives, in an unpleasant way, and these laws could have been passed before. But anyway, not only will savings, the start of the economy and immediate financial and banking consolidation be enough to get out of the shelter, but we will also need to change values or maybe establish some values that we have already believed in in in the past and then abandoned them. The grey economy and country play has indeed become a national sport and many, many of the people with whom I have spoken, are of the opinion that all austerity measures would not actually be necessary if all those who have to and are obliged to do so were to pay taxes. If everyone were to pay taxes, some would think that there would be enough money in the budget to ensure the level of the social state that we have been accustomed to in this country. In this way, we can only hope that this law and many others adopted by this coalition in the context of the persecution of the grey economy will contribute to the fact that it will not be necessary to cut so much on the side of social rights, transfers and everything we are talking about lately, but that they will also bring some money through these laws. Of course, this law is not the only and key law to eliminate the grey economy. It is just one of the pebbles in these mosaics and is one of those pebbles that could have been collected in this mosaic in a relatively short time. Lately, there has been a very popular debate on tax boxes, especially those in Croatia, which are supposed to be better and so on. Yes, they may be, but in a quick time, let me remind you, this government is only working for six months, with tax receipts started on July 1st. In such a short period of time, it was possible to establish precisely these tax receipts, which had already been prepared during the previous mandate of the left-hand central government. If we wait for the real cash registers, they say they do, it would take one year more. In this way too, the Government shall take measures which may help to collect revenue from this Title as soon as possible. In fact, in Positive Slovenia, before we came to power, we started with an extensive consideration of how to attack the grey economy, and we also had a special working group. What we have found, and what is interesting is that, in fact, many provisions on how the grey economy, and in particular in the tax area, are being prosecuted, we already have in our legislation. But only a few of the corrections of this kind that are before us today were important in order to make this tax legislation more effective. In fact, it is also a matter of justice, justice in general, justice in the sense that those who have more should contribute more, and justice in the sense of tax law. To date, the complex focus of tax legislation has been on those who have reported their revenues. And those who were legally bound to declare income were then sought for sinners who did not report their income in the majority, either in full or underreported and so on. In Positive Slovenia, our thinking was focused elsewhere, and this also partially follows this law. This is that not only those who have declared income are penalized over and over again, they show that they focus on money. But once we look at the property of the individual that this individual needs to know to prove, it can be all but income. It also covers all those groups that the opposition so likes to talk about, which have put money on some Cayman Islands, into some tax havens that they have in a smurf that they have anywhere. The moment these people start using this money in terms of their lifestyle, in terms of showing off their assets, of course, procedures against them will be possible. So it's about being able to catch those who successfully concealed their assets years ago, years ago, but they're showing it just now. This will, of course, cover so wide a spectrum of those who are not registered for the reporting of activities, namely those who perform so-called black work and those who call it in the tax area misreporting are said to be registered companies, who then show lower revenues, higher costs and otherwise reverse balances in their accounts. Data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia show that this type of non-refoulement is said to be the wrong reporting most present in small companies with up to three employees, and that the activities carried out directly to households are particularly problematic and are paid in cash and are generally known as construction services, services directly to the household in terms of cleaning or hairdressing services and so on. In short, the data on how gray the economy is in our Slovenia are different, and colleagues have already cited different numbers. However, I would like to draw attention to such, more serious, relevant data, which, while from 2010, is the data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which assesses the grey economy in Slovenia in 2010 to EUR 2.855 billion and 8.3% of GDP. In doing so, let me remind you that some colleagues wrongly state that this is the amount of unpaid tax. This is the amount of tax base that some consider taxable. In short, in the concrete solutions to the law we go much further than the original solutions and explicitly allow the tax authority to identify the subject of taxation with appreciation if the taxable person, the natural person, has the means of private consumption, including property that is significantly above the income that the taxable person has announced. Thus, it is income that far exceeds – I am also responding to the fears of one of the Members that only those who have stolen only 50,000 euros will be covered by this procedure. I must say that I cannot agree with such thinking that the smaller thief is the one who stole 50,000 euros, than the one who stole a million euros. The one who stole 50,000 euros if he had the chance would have had a million; the thief is a thief. A counterfeiter or, in this case, a tax collector is simply someone to be persecuted. The law allows for the possibility that someone forgets to report the property and can then repair it after warning. At the same time, it introduces a higher rate of taxation of 70% in all those cases where it is established when the procedure is carried out that someone most likely wanted to cover up this income. Let me stress that the purpose of this legislation is not to punish – we have criminal Pakistani legislation, legislation in the field of criminal procedure – the purpose of this legislation is to collect as much money as possible at the expense of taxes, from those who have been hiding their income so far. If this procedure is carried out, if State authorities are involved, if the employees of the Tax Administration, inspectors and so on are working on it, it is, of course, reasonable that this tax, 70%, is slightly higher than that paid by an average citizen who respects laws that fulfil his civil obligations in a timely manner. In this provision, I also stress that the finding of a tax base under this Article is characterised by the fact that the source, it is said, the type of income, is not relevant for the assessment of the tax because there is a statutory presumption that the difference arises from the unexplained income of a given period. So, here we are introducing this reversed burden of proof, which is even in the opinion of many who have discussed before me, the most just. It is also important to provide for tax enforcement, which extends the range of those who have to be married for payment of a tax debt or which can be reviewed in this tax procedure. In this way, the government responds to many of the repeated allegations about people who copy property, giving property to their wider family or to some persons, legal persons, for example. Thus, this obligation is extended and the guarantee of these persons, who also guarantee payment of the tax debt. It is also very important to mention the Institute of Procrastination. This is also a problem that we talk about a lot in this house. Obsolescence has been established in the law so far as is comparable to other countries, but since some of the procedures are very long in us, insolvency, bankruptcy procedures and so on have often occurred that the tax debt has lapsed during this period. Now – I don't know why it didn't happen years ago – a single institute of stagnation allows for an outage in this time period, it is said that the tax debt is recovered later when it is possible. In short, I would like to respond to some of the legal concerns raised by Mr Frangež in particular. Of course, when you write such a law and accept certain solutions, you realize that certain solutions may be new, different, and that there is a risk. First, I would say that legislation can never, and its purpose is not to achieve all the possible cases that can and can happen in real life. No legislation is capable of doing so and that is not its purpose. The purpose of the case law is then to resolve specific cases that occur on the basis of legislation and interpretation. There are, of course, several problems with the already mentioned smurf and 50,000 euros donated by the father to his son. The first problem is that in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as in all modern countries, we avoid doing business with such large sums of cash and that in our country, as elsewhere, there are many provisions in terms of money laundering that do not allow you to just walk around with 50,000 euros. If he puts that money on the bank to pay for the house or construction work, someone will knock on his shoulder and ask him where he got the cash. The other thing is that there are also evidentiary procedures in the context of such a finding, which may lead to the finding of how this son or father came to this cash, and then in these evidentiary proceedings also the testimony and the like. And a third. All cases, as we say, cannot be forgotten. Only for a short time would she answer two or three dilemmas. 70% of taxation is something we are aware of in Positive Slovenia that could be disputed because experts say that the amount of taxation should not have a criminal function. We stand in the position that something more must be paid, however, by the one I explained earlier, for which the whole apparatus had to be launched, the inspectors had to operate, the tax procedure had to be carried out, and all the more so because he did not report the property under the law. If they warn the Legislative and Legal Services – although I am afraid that because they find something quickly – they will be very critical of this provision, other solutions are possible. But as discussed today, some say that this number should be even higher. This may be one of the issues that the Constitutional Court may resolve in the future if there is a political will to do so. The second thing is the period of review – 5 and 10 years, respectively. Here's every period you set, in some ways arbitrary, some amount of time that you decide is relevant to such a procedure. Here, based on an expert debate, it has been decided for 10 years, inspectors and experts believe that 10 years ago to prove certain things, after 10 years it is increasingly difficult. This is partly contrary to certain provisions which speak of the statute of limitation in five years, but evidence can also be demonstrated in other ways, not only by documents. This is once again one thing to discuss perhaps in future readings. I would just like to say that in Positive Slovenia we may be thinking about an amendment in the sense that we would not completely end the final conversation so that it could still be possible, but in such a way that those who are in the process would not be able to abuse it for delaying the procedure; it is said to be an option, not an obligation. If someone turns out to be abusing him, this conversation is not done. Perhaps the provision in the amendment should be considered, but other evidence, not only in writing, could also be used, this could be regulated by the amendment. I am pleased that there is such uniform support for this law today, I think it needs to be implemented as soon as possible, I think it can give good financial results and increase. In Positive Slovenia, in particular, we want automaticism to take place in the further development of this institute. This is what we've wanted right now, and it's not possible right now because of the competence of the Tax Administration. However, in the future development of the tax procedure and the Tax Administration, we should seek solutions where inspectors should not assess when the gap is too large and then initiate the procedure, but this would be automatically demonstrated from some records and then lead to a unified process against all. It is still true to work in the future, but, as we say, waiting for such a solution again would take another two years to enforce such a law. So, colleagues, thank you for your support, and I hope that this law will also have such support in future readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Novak, followed by Mrs. Brunskole. Mrs. Novakova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In New Slovenia, we are low taxes or moderate taxes, for such taxes that all citizens can pay, all for work are able citizens. We all know what we need taxes for. In order for the state to implement them, it meets our common needs. More or less, we're all aware of that. Why, though, is tax evasion taking place? I think it's because taxes are too high and they're usually fined. That's why there's always a question about what I'm working for. Is it worthwhile for me to work when I have to give more than those who are actually few, or are they not contributing to the state treasury, rather taking something from it? Then it is also due to the fact that it is too obvious that some are robbing or robbing the country, that corruption is, unfortunately in Slovenia we are at all levels of corruption in a very high place, that bank holes are created by someone who made them because they lived beyond their means because they are unjustifiably enriched. It is therefore right that we have this law, and it is therefore right that we should be able to punish and sanction such things by means of this law. Taxes are also hidden because citizens observe that the country is ineffective and that with our money we all contribute, those who pay taxes do not work carefully, do not work effectively and do not work rationally, and also because justice is not the same for everyone. All of these are those concerns and the reasons why some are hiding taxes, of course, unfortunately they are also doing so in a totally unjustifiable way. As a result, a new law, or a new law, is needed, a better marriage. However, if marriage is to be realized, it must be understandable, just, transparent. Many times I recall that at the Vienna court of Empress Mary Teresa, who introduced some important laws that still apply to some extent that there was a simple man who had given him every law to read and if he understood and knew what he had to do under this law, then they put the law forward throughout the empire. Unfortunately, in most cases we cannot say for our laws that true ignorant citizens understand them, even lawyers usually have their own opinions on the same law. So, first of all, what we should do is make our laws more comprehensible, that they can also be more effective, and, of course, that we consistently realize them, both the citizens and those responsible, are called to control us, to remember, to sanction us. Whoever's rich for a decent job should be rich. I'll give it to him. It is also good for the country to have rich citizens who have done a lot of decent work to create jobs that others can employ. However, it is not fair for such honest citizens to be unduly taxed, since then it is sooner or later that taxes are kept hidden or incomes moved elsewhere, because it does not seem reasonable for them to work solely for others. In addition, let me replicate Mrs. Masha Kociper for a little while. In the end, you just expressed your satisfaction that we would all support this law. Even in the opposition, because at the beginning I had the feeling that the obvious views were flying on this side of Parliament, if we hadn't done it before, why we didn't and so on. Thank God it will happen now, and you, too, are part of the legal profession, you have your own pebble in that why it has not already been done, because as an expert in this area you could also point to someone. That's not the only way to roll the obvious on the other side. In New Slovenia, we have already said that we will support the law and that citizens will also respect this law when they see that it is the same for everyone, that it makes sense, that it is worth our while and that our money is also usefully used. Therefore, I hope that the law will bring more righteousness and not new injustices and that the final work will be worth our while. So that the frauds will be punished.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u80	Yes, I must explain to my distinguished colleague. First of all, I wanted to tell my opposition colleagues, Mr Puksic and Mr Jerovšk, who were discussing so enthusiastically that the law had actually grown on their cabbage, to say that this initiative did not arise in the opposition, nor did it come about in the time of the government led by their party, but it was created in the time of this government led by our party. Maybe you misunderstood that. But of course, I am glad that this law has received support. But I really have to fix you, and we're not going to charge you here, but as a mediator, employed in court, and with the tax procedure and with the provisions of the tax procedure, I really don't have anything. Perhaps you, as a European Member, who has had the opportunity to become aware of regulation in other European countries within four years, could have proposed this arrangement by the time you participated in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. You can't have a replica, Mr. Shircel. On the other hand, it is Mrs Renata Brunskole, followed by Mr Ambrožič, Mrs Irgle and Mrs Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Very welcome, Mr President, Madam Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! I will support the proposal for a tax procedure law at first reading. Of course, as well as the entire Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we look forward to the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. In fact, we do not want to go against the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or against the Constitution by adopting this law. We advocate an arrangement followed by a just and functioning legal country, the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, we want the amendment of the tax procedure law to be adopted. One of the effects of the adoption of this law, the amendment of this law is the reduction of the scope of the grey economy. We all want public health, education, decent pensions and social protection for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We are aware that all of this is provided from the state budget, taxes paid and contributions paid. Therefore, the reduction in the volume of the grey economy will also provide such revenue. The fulfilment of a tax obligation is a fundamental obligation of the taxable person to fulfil it irrespective of his other obligations. The proposed arrangements are also comparable to those in other countries. I am therefore particularly pleased that we are here in the National Assembly, both coalition and opposition, to agree that this law needs to be amended. Nor should a final discussion be held with the taxpayer after the amendment of the law. The note proposes that the conclusion of the hearing be suspended before the minutes are issued and that additional evidence be proposed after the minutes have been issued. It should be borne in mind that the final interview is one of the fundamental rights of the taxable person. Therefore, it considers that the final interview of the taxable person with the tax authority should be maintained. This does not mean that I myself do not realize that it is necessary to find a solution to the fact that the parties to the procedure would no longer use the institution of delay, which the Ministry of Finance reminds us of, and this also warrants an increase in the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the process. Consideration of the level of the tax rate, as well as the transitional provisions, is likely to be needed. The determination of the amount of assets at the initial rate of inspection is also an issue for which Slovenia does not know at a given time the asset declaration institution and therefore it is difficult to determine the initial state of the property. The issue of the period of inspection is certainly important, since transitional provisions will probably need to be regulated, although it has been repeatedly pointed out in the debate today that no, not for a longer period of time, but in the practice and legislation that we are following today, the Slovenian Chamber of Tax Advisors also points out that some of the documents that are now being kept for five years and not ten years, as suggested by the proposal of the law, are likely to be worth considering in order to establish a ten-year period of inspection. It would not be right, however, that this would be an instrument for all matters relating to efficiency, as well as the purpose of amending and supplementing this law, to fall into the water and thus not achieve the purpose and purpose of amending the law. It is also important to institute the retention and introduction of this by means of this amendment of the law. Any legislative changes in the law will have to be examined, so I would also like the Legal and Legislative Service to provide, in some way, some advisory guidance in the preparation or adoption of the law at second reading and in the final adoption of the law, solutions that would lead to the effectiveness of the tax and legal system in the Republic of Slovenia and that the Tax Procedure Act would be a truly effective law. Positive Slovenia, as the largest government party, was also the first to propose the adoption of this law, but of course I am pleased to support it today by all Members and Members of the National Assembly, and in this way we will come to an effective collection of taxes in the Republic of Slovenia, and we will work in particular to ensure that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are not taxed even more, but rather by reducing the grey economy in this way ensuring tax revenues in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Brunskol. Mr. Ambrožich, please. You're giving up. Then it's Mrs. Osterman's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, all present, government representatives! I am pleased, too, that we have before us today a law with which all Members agree. We also introduce amendments to the law because it is inappropriate and unacceptable that taxpayers who respect the legal order and comply with all tax obligations within a time-limit and report fairly on assets treated in the same way as those who do not respect the legal order of our country and deal with the grey economy. We know that we all think that there are more who do not report their revenues and that the grey economy is growing. The last time I was appalled about the fact that my friend told me that she was working in black and that's how she survived. And when I asked her who she was doing it to, she said that even with someone working in black, so this taxation is also one of the important tools for combating the grey economy. The tax authority may determine the subject of taxation by valuation in cases where the taxable person has the resources and lives quite inappropriately on his declared income. Since in many cases it happens that taxpayers transfer their assets to their family members or connected persons in the year or year after the tax procedure begins, this tax obligation will now be passed on to them. It is also an important novelty and it is proposed that the upper limit of fines for the worst tax offences of individuals should be increased to EUR 15 000. This implies that raising the taxpayer's fine will discourage inappropriate, unfair acts that constitute a serious breach of the law. The tax authority may establish the subject matter by evaluation and the procedure for the assessment of the tax on unannounced income may be introduced no more than 10 years after the initiation of the procedure. Of course, taxpayers also have a few options: the Institute of Self-Login is being established. The taxable person may, at the latest, submit a tax return or a corrected tax return on the basis of a self-declaration if he has missed the deadline for the lodging of a tax return or has provided false, incorrect or incomplete data in the tax return. The taxable person shall also be able to submit a tax return after the prescribed deadline. If it shows reasonable reasons for the delay, its tax return shall be deemed to have been filed in due time and shall not be fined, nor shall it be charged at the European Interbank Interest Rate, by which the principal value is maintained. For all the reasons stated in Positive Slovenia, we support and support the proposal of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It's Dr. Vinko Gorenak's turn. You're giving up. So it's Mr. Richard Braniselj's turn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much. My own debate might start with Thursday adopting the amendment of the Real Law Code, where we will end the debt of land if there is support. Why am I starting this? Because it is a direct link to this law that speaks of enormously or taxing the property of unexplained origin. If this institute is going to work, then we need to know that we're going to have a problem on the recovery side. And if land debt is no longer a country's problem, then we can promise that this will also result in a state budget through tax enforcement much more than it would have been otherwise. Of course, the arrangements for the taxation of unexplained property are not from today, but from 1997 onwards. After all, as far as I am concerned, the novelty it brings is not so urgently needed. I welcome it, these are probably some improvements, but we are constantly having a problem with the implementation of legislation. I think that this has been substantially insufficient by the Tax Administration so far and given the time we live in, we expect – and I think we agree – that this will be significantly more and that this will also be carried out consistently. I also refer to the execution of the tasks of other repressive authorities, such as inspections. In recent times, legislation has been coming to the National Assembly, with which we are raising fines, which, of course, is not good. But I'm missing a little bit more imagination on the performance side. In addition to the fines, all criminal authorities can also claim property benefits, confiscate items and so on, which is a significantly more effective and fair measure than merely passing some fines. That's what we'd expect from the courts to be strict about. We have a number of protective measures, by-laws, which are not handed down by the courts, and in a particular case, it would be absolutely necessary. The assets of unexplained origin are not, of course, assets arising from criminal activities, nor from prohibited activities, nor are assets that can actually be justified in some way. It is true that if the origin of this property is not explained, the property is taxed from 70 to 30; 70% to the emperor and 30% to the owner. In practice, there will be a lot of problems here, which should not be a problem for the implementation of this law. First, the definition of the tax base, and I don't see the problem at all. Here Durs has developed instruments where this tax base will appear easily and correctly, and there is also a possible contradiction of the value of this origin. The next problem may be proof of this origin; what is the evidence set that the tax authority will actually be able to take into account when explaining whether the selection will be good enough or not. Here I point out that the source of the property must probably be shown, which means a significantly milder degree of certainty than in other matters, and here it is good. The debtor will have a whole range of opportunities to justify the existence of his assets with some small effort, which is likely to be demonstrated only at the level. The money trail will be the most important, and if it is not here, there will be problems in practice. There'll be a chain check. The pledges will probably defend themselves to get it from someone else, he'll confirm it and he'll have problems and so on. But I think that Durs is going to be a piece of this, and here, in fact, it's not supposed to be a problem. It is also a good thing in this novelty that a flag right is entered directly on the property that is actually being treated, and this immediately and immediately secures a potential tax obligation that could arise and is still in progress. This is a kind of temporary provision, namely, for assets only, or if the expected obligation is more than €50,000. Fifty thousand euros is not randomly selected; it is the amount that is also qualified for the crime of tax evasion. Here, this intervention is not disproportionate, but it's actually correct enough. I myself will support this law, or I believe that this law is suitable for further consideration if we find that it will receive certain corrections. And if these corrections are good and meaningful, we will also support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Now Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the word to prepare the mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I can share with some of you the great satisfaction that it is Positive Slovenia that has just proposed the law that is urgently needed in today's situation, that it is the Positive Slovenia that has proposed to the Government and the Government has also accepted this challenge that, as the first government, it is in this area that these anomalies, these disease symptoms of our country will be slowly healed. It's about writing a recipe, it's about writing rules that will make these symptoms, these pathological elements, such as a grey economy, such as tax evasion, like, finally, the origin of unjustifiable property, kind of start to resolve. Well, that's exactly what my colleague Tonin was talking about yesterday when he asked a question to the Prime Minister, Mrs Alenka Bratušek. It is possible everywhere in Italy that assets of unknown origin may be seized and so on. However, he did not think of a marriage on the table today that was going in this direction. So, I am very pleased that we have done this in concrete terms, and I am very pleased with all the consent and consent of all the parties, including the opposition, in order to implement the law as soon as possible and to bring it to life. It's a big step from that property that's been misled and that property that pays taxes. Last but not least, there is no exception or surprise to the fact that citizens and citizens are estimated to be quite 71% of the grey economy in our country. The right thing to do is to make this step clear, to get this step into some normal frame, to some normal level. It is appropriate to report that property that has not been declared and to collect taxes from it. Of course, property is a very dynamic category, it changes, but it needs to be followed and taxed in a fair manner. This law, proposed by the Positive Slovenia and the Government, is a law that is for the benefit of honest citizens and citizens. It is a law that legally protects the fair owners of their property and, on the other hand, takes care of those who hide in a hole and want to cover up their assets in such and other ways and not pay taxes to expose them and that they, as is the case under law, contribute to this part of the state budget. I am very surprised that the value of the grey economy in our country is estimated at just over two billion. So here is a large reserve that can be used by the country with the right to use, and I certainly know that this part will be used when the law is implemented when the law comes to life. We know that not only in us, but also in other countries, taxpayers are convinced that the fastest and best way to get rich is when the country is around. So it's a tax evasion. In other countries, however, care is taken in such a way that if you commit such negligence, you bring the country around, even when they get you, you pay a big tax. I am sure that this law is also directed in this direction, that those who want to play in this way will quickly come to unjustifiable property, then also punished, and likely not be caught up in this power to deal with such things. That is why this element, which also includes the statute of limitation, as well as the element of inspection and the element or penalty, is so that I know for certain that it is also in this part that it is one that will somehow shut down and threaten all citizens and citizens who wish to enrich themselves in this way and to go on some side road so that they do not engage in this work of honestly declaring property, which is also in the interest of all of us who are paying taxes in a fair manner and thus do this our duty and duty to the State. Some of the debates, today mainly from the last benches, have somehow forced me to think that some of this law are already afraid. I will say that they accept this with fear, although probably all those honest citizens and citizens who pay honestly will not and will not be afraid of such a law that I want all the good things to come forward for discussion and design. Of course, there may be a need for further modification, but basically there is a law, a novel that is prepared, well-intentioned and the one that we are dealing with at the moment when we are dealing with these pathological issues of our country, disease symptoms, how right and right. Therefore, all good forward and successful design, regardless of which side of the comments to modify individual articles will come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. Ms. Matei Pučnik is preparing for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we are pleased that we have proposed to the Government these measures to combat the grey economy, and we fully support the taxation of those entities and their property, which in any way hide their taxable income and profits and do not pay taxes for them. In further developing this area, we would like more attention to be paid to the selective selection of individuals subject to the procedure, since it does not cover a sufficiently wide range of entities. In my view, it would be better to provide an automatic system whereby, as in the informational calculation of income, the taxpayers would be informed about their declared income and property. It is known that everyone expects not to be caught, so I think we should work primarily preventively. This would significantly reduce the grey economy, which is what we want to achieve with the Tax Procedure Act, since this novelty is one of the tools for preventing the grey economy. According to our information, it would be possible to develop a single centralised information system that would allow automatic processing of data, as with income, for which no one initially believed that it would automatically be calculated. We also know that hybrid rich people have not been invented in the last five years, we have acquired them before the global financial and economic crisis, and therefore we do not seem to be at issue for a period of ten years. I would also like to recall that this institute of tax evasion has been introduced in 2006, and we are now upgrading it and, given the difficulties of practice, we want to contribute with the proposed solutions to the most effective and successful instrument. I'm glad we all support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. A number of panellists have resigned from the debate. Mr. Jože Tanko's next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. In these debates, quite an impressive number of words were made, particularly by representatives of coalition parties. One gets the feeling that you are introducing something new, and this is not the case, because in some of the provisions only amends the law adopted by another government in 2006 as well as the National Assembly. I must say that I do not have any particular problems in order to avoid any tightening up in this area. I think they're heading in the right direction. However, I would like to point out that, despite all the great enthusiasm we have witnessed here, it does not really change with regard to principles or major solutions, virtually none of what we have adopted in 2006. The key problem with this law and this novelty, as well as some others, is to try, in particular, at a time when the coalition is in crisis, with some of my more pianist approaches to consolidating species, to correct public impressions and to do something to change these media trends. I would like to remind you that, in the event that this big story of corruption occurred in 2004, we had the government of Rob and then the debate on corruption and the sale of Systemic Technology to Viator & Vector was enriched, this was an agreed sale, along with a later signed letter of intent. At that time, the government reacted by proposing a anti-corruption law. Some Members of Parliament were here at the time, and this was what tried to do in this area of the wave of dissatisfaction of the people. Now, the marriage was adopted at that time in that coalition. We were saying it was a harmless tiger, which in fact was true. However, the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission was named someone who was linked to someone in conflict with someone who was on the other hand in the System Technology. It is said that the responsible lawyer for the Viator & Vector and the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption were brothers. The consequences of this procedure came later, and what is happening to this story, Patria, is part of this process and procedure. But it was a pianist event, it was a pianist law that tried to stop some wave, but it wasn't successful at the time. Another such matter as the answer to the need to do something in the field is this story with the tycoons. The moment the story with the tycoons opened, it was introduced during the period of the Pahor government's Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin. What is the realisation of this law, you heard it yesterday from the mouth of the President of the Government. It is said, too, that this was one media experiment in this area to do something to defend trends, to protect the coalition by some pianist approach. The effects of this law, which was also adopted in the National Assembly, such as those on the prevention of corruption, at least in the coalition work, were not specific. Even today, when we consider this Law on the Tax Procedure, it is also with great euphoria, with great expectations that it is trying to fall into the so-called grey economy. This is some kind of partial measure, it's some kind of law upgrade that's already possible in the basic implementation. What is now being proposed is more or less possible in the basic law, which was adopted in 2006, but obviously these things were not used enough. And now that this story of the grey economy is emerging, when the coalition is trying to defend an unconstitutional budget, it is also interfering here and some solutions are being proposed. Now, this story will probably be similar to the story of those cash registers, with the checking of accounts when two snack bars were sealed up, and the story kind of calmed down and closed. We can also expect a similar measure here, because we have become accustomed to the fact that there are too many exceptions in this country that there are too many of those subject to double criteria. Which are subject to double criteria! There are cases like this in tycoon stories, so there are no seizures. All the tools are available, both with the NPU, both with the State's Attorney's Office, probably with the police, but nothing just happens. Many instruments are also available for the control of these registers, and many of these measures could happen, and I think we only know about two. Also in some other areas, not only in the restaurant, there is a failure to pay, but after this pianist action and the closure of two "caffeines" basically just shut down and the story stands. In this case, too, the Tax Administration had a great deal of opportunity to carry out certain review procedures on the basis of the basic law. The fact that cases are not known, that we do not know or know those in whom the gap between income and property is unknowablely large, is more attractive to the hair. We know countless cases, from the media, mainly from the social chronicles of La Lady, Faces and similar stories, where there are a number of people who show a high standard, average consumption, above average things, and, secondly, they are almost exempt from treatment in tax procedures, anti-corruption committees, law enforcement authorities and so on. Thus, we must implement this law, even though I support these solutions with some reserve, because it will probably not be any of what has been so euphoricly predicted, consistently realized and as it is written. Above all, the problem is that consistency is lacking in all institutions of the country. Procedures are being initiated against certain minorities at a time, with exceptional media support, and against some other cases that are significantly more difficult, and matters do not move from a dead point. Not in the banking system where we now have these cases, not in tax procedures, but in any way, we face clauses of such or other secrecy, confidentiality, prohibitions on the transmission of information, even to investigative commissions or other bodies everywhere. All these provisions, which constitute certain restrictions on some normal business, should be excluded in certain specific cases. And there are extremely big problems here. In order to make the implementation of this law difficult, you can also look at the recent meeting of the National Assembly when we discussed the banking system and when we proposed that, in accordance with the provisions of the Banking Act, persons who would benefit from these solutions should be disclosed in cases of liquidation or bankruptcy. The coalition did not support this, but the law states that this must happen. Now I am just asking how many such coalition exceptions there will be if this law is implemented. How much will that be? What are the provisions of this law that will not and will not be applicable? When we request, say, a hearing in the National Assembly on the implementation of the provisions of this Law or the Banking Act will be prevented, or there will be a closed session, because something should not be discussed, or there will be another reason why matters will be closed and prevented. There are too many of these cases of coalition power hiding behind the prevention of debates when there is no debate, which brings everything to the point that they are first-class and second-class citizens in this country. These are usually small people somewhere in the countryside and so on. And there are people who are facing cases in drawers of various investigative bodies. When there is a conviction, even in some cases it remains with a judge in a drawer because of the hospital and so on. In short, there are people in this country that can hardly happen to them. And I would, in particular, warn and urge the coalition that it is consistent in such conduct. The fact that we adopt marriage is no problem, we have no problem with it. The problem is when specific names arise when concrete procedures should be taken against specific persons, and this does not happen. The type of commission of inquiry was in the National Assembly. Many of these have provided data to law enforcement authorities, including the Tax Administration, and not even to any other state authority. They didn't process. The problem is that it is not a problem in the law, but it is a problem in connected persons or politically connected persons who do not process it or block it or there are other more important reasons, such as the implementation of procedures. So I'm afraid that even in this case, when there should be a strong taxation of unproven assets, there will probably be a number of exceptions, probably not in applications, but in implementation. And the key problem is that no action is taken against a person who does not act against the perpetrators of such acts. We still have all those who have done or have not done something, and things are obsolete where they have been so far. No one has been shaken by the job, no one has taken any sanctions for it because he has not ruled on anything or has misjudged it and so on. We've had some of these cases this year. They will receive even then a very commendable opinion from the relevant supervisory authority, if I say so in my citations that they have done their job well. Perhaps even some are progressing in the pay grade or by function. As long as such things are going to happen in this country, it is not expected until then that there will be serious implementation of any provisions of the laws, however, that they are still so well-intentioned, because there is no fundamental justice in this country. Until we ensure this, however, that citizens are treated equally under the same criteria with the same criteria, it is not expected that there will be serious implementation of the laws. That's gonna hit a couple of little people. Those will be severely and severely punished for some minor matters. However, procedures do not trigger proceedings against those who are the largest in these transactions of unprovable property. They've been up against some for five, seven, nine years. However, procedures relating to their assets shall not be processed within the Tax Administration, not within the law enforcement authorities, nor within the Anti-Corruption Commission. And if we want something good to be done in this area, or what is expected, then it is necessary to ensure first that these systems work and that those in these systems are acting responsibly. Even under certain sanctions, like all other citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat is next in line with his statement. I don't see him in the hall. So I give my word to Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party we announced support for this law in the first reading. As many debaters argue, we think it is a matter of law that tries to solve a problem that is very evident in society and very much will be in the eyes of honest working people when they see how some who have in some way or another in the past seized certain money simply walk among them and, in ridicule, other citizens also enjoy the fruits of illegally acquired funds. I think that the situation in the country is really serious and that we need to take steps in the direction of getting our confidence back that the country is working and that we are equal before the law. Unfortunately, today the general conclusion — I think it is quite right — is that in the past years, decades, the legal system has been simply so ineffective in two decades and that it has not discovered and sanctioned those who have resorted to misdemeanours. That's why I think we should go this way. The warnings, which are very much in place, go in the same direction, whether we will all be the same before the law in the future, so any attempt and implementation of this so-called law in the direction that again someone will gather, who is on the turn and who is not on the turn, would be wrong. I believe that we will have to go the other way, so we estimate that the self-declaration instrument should also be included in the law in some way and that in this way people or anyone who decides should take this first step. I am running out of time, so again more, in the Slovenian People's Party we will support the law and also in the future we will support every law with which we will try to make equality before the law in Slovenia, because, unfortunately, all too often we can say that this is not happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word "magic." Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! The tax procedure law, if we look at it in full, is quite long. I think he's got over 400 articles, and there's only one part of this law changing here. In fact, provisions on the effectiveness of tax control alone are changing, where I think it would be necessary to consider that taxpayers will no longer have a final discussion, especially because I think they need to be informed, and rightly so, of the whole tax procedure. As a result, I think that in the next appeal procedures there may be fewer problems if this institution is held back, and I do not think there should be a major problem here if it is stalling in any way. Another important issue of this law, which is a solution to the fact that assets can actually be assessed and compared to taxpayers' incomes, has been in force since 2006 – it is now being upgraded for the first time in 2007. I don't have any trouble building up myself. I think that's necessary. Of course, if some people now own a whole institute of property registration and so on, some Members or Members of Parliament do not. The question is whether this provision will reduce the grey economy. Once again, I look at this provision in the direction that when someone has already created property, when, if you want, cheated or failed to report all of the revenue to the Tax Administration, and in a few years, this property is so large that there is a huge imbalance between these revenues and assets, of course, assessing this property, taxing it, here I can say that with a very high tax rate. I myself do not believe that the tax rate or tax should be penalised. Here, for example, the German Constitutional Court has already examined the appropriateness of the rates, the appropriate level of the rates. And the estimate was that it was supposed to be a 50% maximum. Everything else can be a penal policy, and for the tax system itself it is not appropriate, because, after all, we still have penalties in all tax legislation. However, I miss – I hope that this is regulated in another legislation – the provisions on the very grey economy and the improvement that people will know in advance how to pay the tax, and that they will also present the bill in advance in the easiest possible way and pay the tax. I think there is still room in the Tax Procedure Act for this matter to be simplified as far as possible and for the taxpayer to be able to pay the tax as easily as possible. In connection with the Tax Procedure Act, which lays down procedural principles and which lays down what procedures are to be followed in respect of individual taxes as well as in general control, the problem is that material laws follow this. And we've been talking a lot about material laws for the past six months. I think that we have addressed almost all the main laws: value added tax, rate increase of 10%, or two percentage points, income, no more harmonisation of the scale and facilitation for all debtors, for all citizens and citizens, corporate income tax, a rate of 17% has been stopped – there is no further reduction, but certain restrictive provisions have been adopted for the financing of individual companies. If we just look at this and not look at other laws that have been passed, such as lottery tickets, sweet drinks and so on in this period, then the tax obligation in Slovenia is increasing, according to some estimate, by 550 million, which is about €250 more tax burden for every citizen or citizen in Slovenia. How much does that mean for a family of four? This means a thousand euros more tax in one way or another. Such solutions do not go hand in hand with the fight against the grey economy; they do not go hand in hand with the fact that we should actually focus on that and do so – the government, if it considers that this is the extent of the grey economy, should make a specific programme in this regard, make specific arrangements for the most critical taxpayers, usually those who deal with cash and final consumers, and limit and curb the grey economy with this programme. For restrictive provisions and high taxes certainly do not reduce the grey economy. It doesn't go together and it doesn't go in any country and it doesn't go here either. Such restrictive provisions also mean fear, but on the basis of fear, a tax may be collected, but most of it is not because, after all, we are still in a situation where it is not possible to pay more taxes because people do not have it. When the real estate tax comes in, it's likely that there'll be a financial collapse or bankruptcy in a lot of people. Of course, taxes are not intended to bankrupt people because of such high taxes, and this property tax means so. If I return to the asset assessment and the tax authority finds this valuation assessment of the property, it compares it with the revenue that the taxpayer is supposed to forecast in the income statements and, of course, if this happens, it will have to pay that tax. In this case, I think another chapter of the Tax Procedure Act is extremely important, which is the international exchange of data. We know that a number of countries have entered into agreements with other countries on specific, I am talking about a specific, international exchange of data to make available to another country a list of persons holding an account in another country. Unfortunately, I do not know that such an agreement would be concluded between Slovenia and another country. There would probably be a very good and recorded agreement between Slovenia and Switzerland to begin with. We know that Switzerland has already adopted such an agreement on bank accounts with a number of other countries. If anything's changed so far, then I'll take the words back. The next question, which I have already mentioned, I would like to stress again, is the issue of tax confidentiality. Tax secrecy is now defined in around ten articles of the Tax Procedure Act and tax secrecy constitutes an obstacle to the fact that the public, after having already found that it was a reasonable suspicion or that it was also a violation of the legislation, are not all complete and legal procedures, have already been informed, have the right to be informed or informed about tax evasion or those tax evasionrs who cover up taxes by also committing criminal offences. In this case, I think that this law should be supplemented, upgraded and then presented in the National Assembly. What's missing from this law is financial data. Today, we have an article on the fact that asset assessments are already being carried out for individuals, and some estimates come even to the public how many such procedures are annually, annually, monthly and so on. This is not a matter of tax secrecy, for if the Ministry of Finance says that in 2012, 150 procedures have been introduced and concluded, I am referring to 150 procedures where the property has been identified by individuals and that it has been collected from this title so much and so much tax, this is not a matter of tax secrecy and this could be done, for the entire period probably there is data for this. Of course, it would also be nice to determine whether the procedures are already complete, legal and so on. In short, these are the solutions and they could also have a final financial impact, after all, the final financial impact is likely to be extremely important for this government too, as, after all, there are increasing taxes at every step, all possible ways are used to collect such taxes, I think that it would also be necessary to determine the financial impact of the actions, the individual actions that have taken place in the last month, when the Tax Administration, together with the Customs Administration, closes a particular place and so on and what the financial effect is in this case, whether in this case there is actually any tax or perhaps even less, in short what effect this actually exists. So that I think it is possible and necessary to supplement this law, to submit it to the National Assembly, and on this basis there is no problem of not being supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded with this debate. I'm asking if the government representative wants a word? Here you go, mag. Matthew Vraničar
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I must say that I am pleased with this single support for the bill before you in the first reading, and we will probably be answering a number of very specific questions raised in today's debate during the second stage or second reading of the bill. However, I would like to focus on some of the key points that have been expressed and also to draw attention to some of the facts. The first point I would like to draw attention to is the following; the payment of the tax is an objective obligation of any individual who achieves certain incomes that owns a particular asset or spends for a particular purpose. When we talk about the tax gap, when we talk about undeclared income and property created from these undeclared incomes, and when we talk about Article 68 and 68a of the Tax Procedure Act in this connection, we are talking about this objective obligation to pay income tax. We are not talking about whether this asset is acquired or derived from legal or illegal activity, nor are we talking about whether or not this asset should be confiscated. The payment of a tax under Article 68 or 68a of the Law does not constitute a legalisation of that income. All other procedures laid down under other laws must proceed smoothly. In fact, the purpose of the provision, which has been the most discussed today, is to place all taxpayers in some way, if not already in front of them, at least post festivals, in the same position and, if they have managed to avoid paying the tax in the past, they are subsequently burdened. There has already been a speech that the proposed solutions in the bill constitute an upgrade to the existing system. And I must say that the existing system is in line with international practice. The claim in the bill that new solutions are compatible with comparable solutions in other countries does not mean that the solutions so far have not been consistent. It only means that they are still within the limits of what other countries and the methods and measures used by other countries also determine. How is supervision carried out and what groups of debtors are actually being considered through this control? This is a matter of a fairly detailed objectiveised procedure within the General Tax Office, which, on the basis of a risk analysis, establishes and incorporates in this risk analysis a set of data, including those taxable persons who need to be monitored. I have already mentioned in my introductory debate that 208 such procedures have been completed over the past five years. Decisions of the Administrative or Supreme Court have also been taken in those where the debtors have complained to the Supreme Court or to the Administrative Court. And in these cases, an additional 33 million tax was levied. Interestingly, the Tax Administration notes that this tax is generally paid, not only accounted for, but also collected. It's not that these debtors wouldn't have the resources to pay for it. If we analyze this data in even more detail. The explanation of the law is also given in detail in the explanation of Article 2. Only in the first half of this year have so many procedures of this kind been carried out as they were carried out throughout 2009. In the intervening years, between 50 and 60 such procedures were carried out annually. And if we look at the whole five-year period, the EUR 157 000 added to the tax on each individual introduced or completed procedure. This means that for an individual taxpayer, taking into account an effective tax rate of 23%, this meant around EUR 690 000 of the additional income found. But if we're just looking at the first half of this year, the years are actually even more alarming. 287 000 700 is the amount of tax, which on average is additionally charged to the individual tax procedure and, if I take into account the same effective rate of 23 %, I am rounding up slightly for the sake of simplification, that is to say for the individual tax liability reviewed, a higher tax base of EUR 250,000. All this data shows that procedures under current legislation have been brought in or carried out very precisely with a lot of evidence, with a great deal of attention to the implementation of all the evidence attesting to additional tax obligations. We expect that the effectiveness of this procedure will be further enhanced by the staffing reinforcements that the Tax Administration has received since July of this year by transferring some customs officers to tax officers. While these customs officials will not deal directly with these procedures, they will burden those best inspectors so that they can focus more on such procedures. Why upgrade the system? It was found that most of the assets of unexplained origin originated there from 2006 to 2009. And if we do not extend the possibility of determining the origin of property or income, we simply lose this period of control and thus lose all meaning and importance to this process in essence. In view of the way in which the choice of taxpayers for this type of determination of the tax gap is made, I believe that there is relatively little possibility for arbitral decisions by tax officials. However, a certain field of discretion should also be left to the tax officials and, therefore, we have carefully assessed or weighed, on the one hand, the right of the tax authority to intervene in the revenue or in the data on the taxpayer, and on the other hand to ensure an adequate level of legal certainty for all taxpayers. With regard to the method of proof, in connection with which it has been repeatedly mentioned today that it is not possible to use documentary evidence solely in this procedure, I should like to draw attention to Article 77 of the Tax Procedure Act. This is, however, not the subject of this novelty, but this article already provides that it is not only the documentary evidence that must or may be taken into account by the tax authority in the tax procedure. Of course, documentary evidence has a certain advantage in the weight of essentially assessing the appropriateness of the individual evidence, which is essentially the general principles of the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Tax Procedure Act. When there was a discussion of the limit to be determined, where will this breakthrough be determined, we should actually ask ourselves where our lower limit of tolerance is. I think that the law must be directed in such a way that it does not have a lower limit of tolerance or that tolerance is virtually null and void in relation to unlawful conduct and various forms of tax evasion. It is true, however, that this bill only refers to one part of the measures that need to be implemented in relation to tax evasion, or to the grey economy that has been mentioned many times today. When we talk about action against the grey economy or tax evasion, we do not necessarily have to change all the rules on our noses so that we can fight against the grey economy and tax evasion. The powers already in force in existing legislation must be used, and this must be done. The government has set up a special group that has set up a whole set of measures to combat the grey economy. These are horizontal measures. The activities carried out by the Tax and Customs Administration concern in particular. Then there will be individual sectoral measures concerning individual areas, such as logging, excise duty, baking bread, compliance with other obligations, and so on. Maybe just a comment about the self-reporting. This was also mentioned several times in the Tax Procedure Act. The possibility of self-declaration exists, and also because of the distinction between self-declaration procedures in the case of determining the origin of property or the source of individual income in relation to self-declaration – when we weighed these two institutes, we put a higher tax burden on the tax gap. Indeed, even if the tax authority instructs that it will start to identify the origin of the assets, self-declaration is still possible. In view of the manner in which the debtor will explain the origin of a particular asset, such income or property will be taxed on the basis of self-declaration at normal tax rates with benefits such as those laid down for self-declaration under the general scheme. Only if the taxpayer is not willing to cooperate and the tax authority carries out a comprehensive control procedure will this higher 70 % tax rate be taken into account. As far as international data exchange is concerned. In Slovenia there are a number of mechanisms whereby the Tax Administration can obtain data on accounts of Slovenian taxpayers abroad and these data, or these methods, are also used by the Tax Administration. Also due to these procedures, the procedures for determining the tax gap are long-term and late. However, we cannot, in some way, agree to use some unauthorized methods of obtaining data, since the evidence of such data in our legal proceedings can then be questioned. And also due to the international exchange of information, it is important to be careful when we consider the possible loosening of tax confidentiality provisions, although this is probably one of the areas that will need to be addressed in the future. In short, I am pleased to have a fairly uniform support for the proposed solutions in the Tax Procedure Act, and I expect that we will continue the second and third treatment in the same spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Now I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it? More. So I'm going to open up an opportunity to discuss the rest of the time. I'm asking you to report to the discussers. We have four panellists registered. I think each of the discussers has 5 minutes. The first is Mr. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! I don't want to hurt this idea of coherence at the time of the adoption of the law, but I feel the need to point out the following: where too many people feel the same way, no one thinks anything. That's what history, experience shows. And if we remember, in 1993 the Property Change Act was passed. Look at the shocking majority, and see what the result is today; the poor Slovenia, the unequal distribution of the then created wealth of our mothers, fathers, grandparents, tycoons and all the negative consequences that we are witnessing to them today. This is the result of such strong coordination. I fear that this law has similar consequences, although I agree with many debaters that it probably has very good solutions. I'd like to draw your attention to some of my concerns. This law will not bring about a reduction in the grey economy, since no law or state that simultaneously raised tax rates and made the business environment more difficult with different administrative rules has reduced the grey economy and we can go into the history 100 years ago. The country also knocks on citizens' conscience to pay taxes through various ads, because it is ethical, it is a moral act, which is the integrity of man. I agree, but every coin has two salaries. What about the consumption of these taxes collected by our taxpayers in people who receive 600, 700 euros in wages or 300, 400 euros in pensions? Does this one also have to be honest, ethical, moral? Has the state done its job by filling a bank hole with the taxes collected years ago, where the tycoons were fueled, where billions and not millions of people disappeared? Is the state fair, is the state ethical, is the state moral? That's the question we have to ask ourselves. We need a new tax system, the change in this law will not substantially change, we need a development-oriented tax system based primarily on fairness. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out. Madam Secretary of State will be able to verify this because it is in a high enough place. What about abuse in tax procedures? Do you know what the tax office or inspector will say? The order, i.e. the decision of the Tax Administration, does not enforce. I'll give you a test case. The tax administration imposed a fine of EUR 200 000 on former director of the Tax Administration Ivan Simic, who is currently in temporary service in Serbia and regulated there, because he was not a politically acceptable tax inspector. He paid for it. Five years later, he proved that he had been wronged and is now establishing a Society of Defrauded Citizens and Businesses by the Tax Administration. You know, this element also needs to be considered and incorporated into the law, that, however, a company, a citizen must be protected from the repression of this country, which has not proved to be a tax-friendly country to its citizens in its 22-year history, but, above all, as a tax hell, and it needs to be transformed into a tax haven. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Brane Golubovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u102	Nice hello to you all! In fact, we are upgrading the 2006 law. We are giving him some additional tools to fight tax evasion even more effectively. I am particularly pleased that we have achieved a great deal of unity in this House in that they are unacceptable, but really unacceptable, any grey economy, economic and financial crime, corruption. And when there was talk today about the grey economy, this novelty of the law also prevents economic and financial crime and corruption for me. Not directly, but indirectly. Because if we effectively implement this law – and from 2006 to now this law has been implemented at a half-speed – then we will give a very clear signal to all those who in some unfair way earn their money or deserve it not to be paid. You know, I personally think that at the principle level, we all agree that tax evasion is inappropriate. But when people face it directly, they always find some excuses. "Small people" say that until the tycoons get caught up, why would they pay those taxes. Some others say it's a political construct. Some thirds say something else. We always excuse ourselves when it comes to the fact that we should make a commitment to the country, so it is important to me that I have heard here today that at the principle level we all agree that this must be done. It is important for me to once again give a very clear message to all those whose lifestyles, their real estate, their movable property, their consumption is not in proportion to the declared revenues. If this is established, they will be punished in such a way as to pay the tax. And that's important to me. Moreover, since this law can only be effective in practice and we want it to be effective in practice, I wonder whether Durs is qualified enough to pull these things out, especially in terms of whether it has been considered in the direction of setting up a specialised team within Durs, as we have in the field of prosecution, as we have in the area of police, the NPU. That's one thing. The other thing I'm curious about, but the secretary of state has already responded in one piece, is the abolition is back. It's possible, it's thinking about abolition for all those who would -- I know, we're talking about self-declaration and if they sign themselves up, but whether or not they're going to do something about it. And the third thing that I'm interested in is whether in the second reading there will also be some kind of direction that we're going to adjust to this law. Today, it was said in the debate that some laws would have to be adapted to this law, which we today adopt or amend the 2006 law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker! I welcome, sincerely welcome the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act, which is certainly a positive step towards trying to meet the demands of honest citizens and honest taxpayers. And this requirement reads, "Take those who have taken away from us!".. Take the ones that took us. We listen to this, alone in an office, in a village, in a village, in a city, on a street, anywhere. And despite the united support of this new law, which on the one hand pleases me, on the other hand there is a handful of bitterness, because we already have some good laws, and they do not produce fruits, such as are good for all citizens who are good for Slovenia — such fruits. Yesterday we spoke and I am pleased, a good message from the President of the Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, who said that she agreed that the proceedings relating to the seizure of illegally acquired property were taking too long. Her statement is a good signal. Of course, the bad signal is that these procedures take too long. The marriage is at least two years old or more old, and it has practically not yet produced fruit. Here is this bitterness, when in some ways citizens expect honest solutions from legislators, fair solutions, but then we may be far from meeting these requirements despite a good marriage text. When can we actually say that there is a tax culture in Slovenia? When? Surely when we apply traditional Slovenian values back into our lives. I guess it wasn't until then. Here, when it comes to tax culture, this culture probably begins with education in the family, in the school and so on. Look, colleagues and colleagues, I have a feeling we're a country of two lists. There are honest citizens on one list, taxpayers who, even with some awe of the country's taxation, regularly pay taxes, perhaps a week or two before the payment deadline, so that they do not miss out. On the other hand, colleagues and colleagues, we have a list of beneficiaries of high bank credits who already know on the day they take credit that they will never return this loan. We have a list of politicians who receive cheap airline tickets. We have a list of the recipients of privileged fighter pensions and tycoons who have taken property unfairly. I read in the newspaper about the unequal criteria in the Slovenian judicial system, we talked earlier, a colleague talked about sons and fathers. We also have a list of fathers who can give their son €2.5 million on the table so that the son can repay the debt. This is the country of two lists. And I wonder if we're going to shorten that ugly list with this novel of marriage. Surely that is what we all want, and I also supported Minister Plitschanovic in his efforts yesterday to give us the name and surname of responsibility in the banking system of the majority state ownership. But then somehow in a friendly, collegial conversation, he told me that, of course, not all of them. Perhaps he would have come to this place faster with these solutions, to the National Assembly, but he probably has someone pressing the hand brake. Here's our problem. We know exactly what we have to do in this house, MEPs and Members, but unfortunately there are still too many lobbyists who are pushing the brakes or there may be a third list of people who are afraid to be on the list of those responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. And the last discusser, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u106	Madam President, thank you for your word. A state secretary with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! I was particularly encouraged by the implementation of colleagues from Positive Slovenia. I must say that I congratulate them on the beautifully written speeches they have prepared, and they have forgotten that there is a major gap between theory and practice in Slovenian tax legislation. After their implementation, I feel like we're reading some super-successful criminal where thieves will be shut down forever, and their assets will be taken away. But given what the bill says, I think the purpose of the law is good, but you know that the path to hell is pressed for good purposes. And 70% of the taxation of this property is like raising taxes in the country of Slovenia – people will not pay taxes better, and in this case they will not rush into self-declaration, as the ministry says they will report themselves in order to get rid of something. Absolutely not. I think that avoiding, speculating and machining in the tax area in Slovenia will also be good with the help of this law, which, as I said, has good extensions, but will probably have bad performance, so there will be much more speculation and machination. I agree with some of the predecessors who have talked about whether our tax administration is really qualified or how we will allow Durs to function, not just active, because what helps you activity if you are not successful in the end. As regards the concept of tax enforcement or this term. I think that tax havens by this law are gaining new tenants or new beneficiaries. Perhaps it is one of the cases when fellow Members of Parliament of Positive Slovenia spoke about how they have now invented warm water. They may not have read the introduction of the law, which nicely states that this law has been in force to a degree since 1997 and was upgraded in 2006. It is said that Positive Slovenia is not an alpha and an omega of this law. What the predecessor has already said, I believe that some family from Ljubljana will have a very interesting path, perhaps even the path of self-declaration, when they find out how you can create a million, two million, three million from nothing, return them without worry and no one gets anything. Indeed, in such cases, the distinguished Secretary of State, I hope that, not only through self-declaration, but also through the effective functioning of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, they will close the financial tentacles. Perhaps this will be one of those moments when we can talk about the success of the law, even though I think it is more of a hunt for small-time thieves, or even a hunt for individual witches, who have sworn oaths to some political parties who don't like it. We know, at least those of us in the Justice Committee, who have many good intentions, how we will solve some things with certain laws, the type of top. Then, when we ask the individual minister or the President of the Government how successful they are in judicial and tax procedures, they say, "No, no, we must not go into this, they are autonomous authorities, they are autonomous branches of authorities and so on." And the situation is not getting any better, it's getting worse. To conclude, I understand all those who say how this law should be adopted, because public research shows that those should be closed. Of course, if we look at public research, all the politicians are anyway stupid, lazy, all the economists are thieves and tycoons, everyone has to pick up everything, and then let the government, whoever wants, not those who want the good of Slovenia. In short, at first reading, I will support the bill. The predecessors have already said that, unfortunately, you have not been more extensive in this law, especially with regard to the issue of tax confidentiality. And I hope, unless it's any other way that a car that's been in separate garages for several years has found its way to freedom, or to users, that it will not only reduce their value at this time, but also the practice of this law will show that they can go [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the draft law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide on Thursday, 24 October 2013, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on public servants after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed France Puksic. At its 15th session, on 3 October 2013, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the home working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the articles of the bill after the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I now give the text to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First of all, the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak, has the floor. I see they're not in the hall. So, next. New Slovenia Embassy Group, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Public Servants Act sets out the principle of equal access for all interested candidates on equal terms among basic principles in the first place, by ensuring the choice of the most qualified candidate. This principle is stated in the law even before the principle of legality. In the third place, the law regulates the principle of professionalism and therefore the remaining principles. These fundamental principles should therefore be based on the choice of public servants for all vacancies. In particular, these principles must be respected in the selection of officials in positions of office, including the chiefs of administrative units. This particular area is not adequately regulated in the current legislation, since their appointment and, above all, the possibility of re-election without public competition are also regulated in law and consequently in practice in contravention of these fundamental principles. The selection of candidates for the post of Chief of Staff, however, is subject to a special public tender procedure in which the Special Competition Commission examines the professional qualifications of candidates and draws up a list of suitable candidates, but the Minister is not bound on a proposal from the Special Competition Commission and may decide that none of the candidates proposed is suitable and requires a repeat of the competition procedure. In doing so, he can even appoint a competition commission. Therefore, in the case of positions of employment, the competence of candidates, which is checked in competitive procedures, is completely secondary and is the primary criterion for the occupation of the position of the post. This criterion is to some extent understandable in some of the official posts governed by the Law on Public Servants, such as the Directors-General, the Secretaries-General, the heads of the bodies of the ministries and the heads of government services responsible for the implementation of specific government policies. However, in this circle they certainly do not judge or judge the chiefs of administrative units. The functioning of public administration must be based solely on the expertise and independence of the current policy. In turn, the public administration must be an effective service for all citizens and businesses. Effective service! In New Slovenia we advocate depoliticisation and professionalization of public administration and a consistent establishment of personal responsibility. We want to eliminate often bureaucratic arrogance and ensure that state institutions respond up to criticism and citizens' proposals. Public servants must be committed to the principle of professionalism and professional ethics. Effective public administration requires a good management principle for managing and controlling the quality and timeliness of the work done. Here, however, we draw attention to the lack of responsibility of the chiefs of administrative units who are responsible for the correctness, timeliness and legality of the work of administrative units. Of course, criticism doesn't go to the average to understand each other. Thus, we have a number of situations where the same person, of course the relevant political provenance, holds the post of Head of the Administrative Unit for as long as 18 years, with the management and decision-making of individual procedures in such an administrative unit being carried out over months and months, even for years or for decades, for example in denationalisation procedures. No commissioner is responsible for such a situation – on the contrary, many of the chiefs of such administrative units have been extended their mandate, repeatedly without a call for proposals. This is the situation we are opposed to in New Slovenia. For this reason, in New Slovenia, we supported changes and additions to the Law on Public Servants, which eliminates the political appointments of chiefs of administrative units and the extension of their mandates without invitations. Each person must have access to this function under the same conditions, the suspension of the invitation to tender for the post of Chief of Administrative Unit before or at the end of his term of office means a breach of the fundamental principle of equal accessibility to this function for all interested candidates. And a proposal for amendments and a supplement to this law, if adopted, would thus remedy the illegal situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members! The Group of Members and Members with the first-signed France Puksic has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Servants, which has not received sufficient support on the home committee. The novel proposed that the post of Head of the Administrative Unit should be excluded from the circle of so-called political officials characterised by a special arrangement for obtaining a position through a special public competition, which ends with the Ombudsman's free choice of one of the professionally qualified candidates. In addition to the special arrangements for obtaining positions, these officials shall also be subject to special arrangements for the cessation of the situation, in particular the possibility of early resolution without undue reason during a certain period of time. Therefore, the amendment did not propose a new arrangement for all the highest official posts, but only for the chiefs of administrative units. The proposed solution, however, is rather vague and leads to internal non-compliance of individual provisions. In Positive Slovenia, we have not given support to the proposed solution because we believe that the current regime for obtaining and discharge from the position of highest officials in the state administration is adequately regulated and ensures the choice of qualified candidates. We have not found any professional arguments on the basis of which we could conclude that the proposed solution is better than the existing one. It is true that an official is free to choose between candidates, but cannot choose between all the candidates applied for, but only between those for whom the Special Competition Commission has found that they fulfil the conditions for the position and that they are appropriate according to their professional competence. At the same time, the applicable legislation provides for all the highest official posts with the same selection procedure and ensures the same criteria for all officials, and from the Directors-General, the Secretaries-General, the heads of bodies in the composition of the ministries and the heads of government services to the heads of administrative units. We believe that we cannot exclude only the chiefs of administrative units from this system, as such arrangements would have more negative than positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Ms Sonja Ramšak will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we supported the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Servants submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed France Pukšič. We also supported the amendments that followed the comments or opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the coalition followed the Government's view and prevented further proceedings and thus, in our opinion, continued political recruitment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposed legal solutions have gone in the right direction, since the proposed solutions have aligned the criteria for the selection of candidates for heads of administrative units with the criteria for the selection of other officials, with a view to selecting the most qualified candidates or candidates. The discretionary right of the Minister to re-appointed or dismiss the Chief of Administrative Units has been lifted and the possibility of an administrative dispute has been introduced for candidates who were not selected in the selection process of the Chief or Chief of Administrative Unit. Already in the debates on the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, we have stressed that we support the law's proponents, that the chiefs of administrative units should be excluded from the circle of so-called political officials who are characterised by special arrangements for obtaining the position, this is a public competition ending with an official or minister's free choice of one of the professionally qualified candidates, and a special arrangement for the cessation of the situation, in particular the possibility of early resolution without a fault over a certain period of time. The discretionary right of the Minister to extend the mandate of certain chiefs of administrative units for a further five years in the Slovenian Democratic Party seems inappropriate, unacceptable and raises doubts that it is a matter for the selection and appointment of chiefs of administrative units to decide on the basis of candidates of professional knowledge and competence, or that in such cases it must be a political decision or recruitment under the current legislation. The chiefs of administrative units generally do not set up policies or strategies in specific areas of administration, but, together with their co-workers, are contractors from the tasks delegated by law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are aware that the proposed legal solutions were not optimal. Therefore, the Government of Alenka Bratušek and the coalition are expected to propose appropriate legal solutions in a short time, which will exclude all those positions from the list of so-called political officials, because it is only about the management of organs in a classical sense, where specific knowledge is needed in the areas of management and organisation of work, economy, efficiency and teamwork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendment of the law was not supported by the Social Democrats' Group because it was thoroughly reviewed and confirmed by the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposed amendment was unclear and there was an internal non-compliance of individual provisions. It is true that amendments have been tabled to the amendment following the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, but it is important to note what was the fundamental purpose of this amendment. As the proponents argued, the basic purpose is to align all staff members when entering or withdrawing part of the tasks for which they were appointed. In addition, they proposed or reasoned that it was to take into account the expertise and efficiency, that chiefs of administrative units who are officials in position and perform executive functions should be equal to other officials who are not political officials in the French and German sense of the word. At the same time, the question always arises as to where the change in political or official composition should take place. Should all officials representing the official summit be required to resign at the same time as the political nomenclature elected in the elections, or should they follow the English system, which is a distinctly career system? Regardless of defending one or the other issue, it is important to stress that we have a combined system and that there is also a possibility of amending legislation that amends certain provisions. The monitoring of the career system, at least in graves, allows the mandate for which the official is appointed, which is five years, which goes beyond the mandate of each government. However, a supplement was subsequently incorporated into the law, allowing the official to discharge such a political officer within one year of the appointment, which means that the original purpose of granting a mandate beyond the mandate of one government has been annulled because it was possible to recall these political officials. However, it should be noted that a special competitive commission assessing professional competence, following all those qualifications of the individual candidate that are intended to ensure the quality of the job – to ensure that all of this ensures that the basic condition is met. It is true, however, that the Chief of the Administrative Unit retains the possibility that, among those who meet the requirements imposed by the Competition Commission, the individual official may choose an associate or chief of the administrative unit for whom he considers that he will be more successful in carrying out his work than others who also meet the professional criteria. In any event, even if it is a matter of reappointment, there is, in principle, a requirement to meet the professional criteria. We believe that such an exception which the proposed amendment has brought before us is not entirely justified and therefore we support the Committee's proposal that the law is not appropriate for the continuation of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u116	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! All public servants, from municipal and state officials, to educators, doctors, cooks in kindergarten, have two common points which are essential. First, they perform tasks which are public and generally good and for which they also receive payment for their work by taxpayers from the budget. As a result of these two facts, it is essential that we have a uniform system of public servants, so in the Civil Gazette, although we believe that the purpose of the applicant is sincere, we have not supported the proposal of the SLS colleagues' law on the home committee. We believe that the current regime for the acquisition and exercise of office for the highest officials in the state administration, including the chiefs of administrative units, is properly regulated and ensures the selection of qualified candidates for this position. There are no professional arguments in favour of the proposed amendments in the Civil Gazette. For we advocate even greater flexibility in working relations, and in the times we are in, we must not have untouchable, neither in politics nor in the system of public servants. I'm sure the heads of administrative units don't want to be an exception either. The results of the work of the administrative units, both in the resolution of administrative procedures and in the determination of customer satisfaction, clearly show that the chiefs put professionalism and legality first in their work, political belonging to the quality of work has no influence whatsoever. The theory knows two systems that have been established in the employment of public servants. It's a "measure" system and a "spoil" system. They differ in the fact that the first is based on professional employment and the second is based on political criteria. As we have heard before, we use a combination of both systems. First of all, candidates for an officer in office have to meet the professional criteria checked by the Special Competition Commission, and I believe that the Official Council is doing its work with all due care. In the end, the official shall be selected between candidates who have been assessed as professionally fit for a particular position in the framework of the public tender. This procedure shall be equally arranged for all officials in office, both the Director-General, the Secretary-General, the Directors of the Authority, the Director of the Government Service and also the Chief of Administration. Therefore, the same criteria are provided for all of these. The SLS proposal would exclude the position of the Commissioner from this circle, so their position would be different, and we disagree with the introduction of such exceptions in the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u118	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! I'm sorry there's no one from the Ministry of Public Administration at this point. But it is true that I am probably naive — if I say that I am young and naive, O.K. Maybe a little younger, but still naive; what a member of the Slovenian People's Party with six Members hopes to step into an area owned by the gods, Dr. Virant, on his territory. It's a change to the Civil Service Act. What a stupid thing to do. So, all of this is unacceptable, not because the amendment is wrong, but because of the fact that, of course, the gentlemen who are in these positions do not allow anyone to step on their discretionary rights at this time. True, our legislation is such that it takes into account, through the official council, such expertise and then political criteria. That's true, but you know, the political criteria are not right for me to follow with the 58 chiefs. So every minister has the right to replace all 58 commissioners within one year if he so decides. But here I am listening to people who talk about principle, the expertise that was chiefs in the administrative unit, and in two years there were three calls, and to this day there were no acceptable ones. What's that all about? To political corruption. Maybe he's waiting for a job, or he's booked for whom. But that's not corruption. [[...]] Such people will tell the Slovenian people what we can and cannot, what is and what is not. And we do not support this in the Slovenian People's Party. Another piece of evidence. Assessment during the assessment period 1. 1. 2012 to 31. 12. 2012: great. Željko Vogrin has done excellent job security, independence, creativity, quality, organisation of work, relation to work, results of work, rationality of work and other skills, above expectations according to the evaluation criteria. Through his work and his personal contribution to the various working groups, he has also made an appropriate contribution to the better work of all administrative units. Signature – Dr. Gregor Virant. I thought so. That it wasn't his, I was almost certain. You think he chose him chief of management? No, no, no. But he chose someone who wrote on Facebook: [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u119	Mr Pukšič, please move to the position of the Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u120	That's our position, don't bother me. "Well, I can't believe we're being debated in the Odessa, but what's crazy is this mob that stole people's money through the Bell. How dare they? It's gothoff." And the next for the celebrations, the new Styrian-Slovenian dictionary: "Canglar – Communicate with the people in the head" [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u121	Mr. Pukšič, I warn you to keep a decent rhetoric in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u122	"Cagleroid – a mentally injured member of the city council with a fork exam." But if that's what you're writing on Facebook, then you're the chief of management! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have proposed to amend this law precisely because of such anomalies, which we do not support, we will not support, but whoever it is and whoever it is. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, I hope, however, that you will consider whether this change has a lot of salt when voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defence proposal for a law on the suspension of the validity of the Cosmetic Products Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you are, Mrs. Brigita Chokl, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u124	Dear Members and Members and all the others who accompany us. By means of the proposed law, the Republic of Slovenia repeals the current national regime on the production and transport of cosmetic products, which has become unnecessary due to the mandatory direct application of the European Union acquis. By implementing the proposed law, the area of cosmetic products will be regulated by Regulation No. 1223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on cosmetic products and Regulation on the implementation of the Cosmetic Products Regulation, by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has established competent offices, which have designated the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals and the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and which have also established criminal sanctions. By repealing the Cosmetic Products Act, all sub-laws issued on that basis shall also be repealed, with the exception of the Regulation on the method of sampling and methods for laboratory analyses of cosmetic products published in the Official Journal. 59 in 2006. This Regulation must be maintained in order to comply with the acquis of the Republic of Slovenia with the acquis of the European Union and to continue to apply it mutatis mutandis. The repeal of the Cosmetic Products Act will not reduce the safety of cosmetic products for consumer health and users of cosmetic products in the Republic of Slovenia, as the current provisions are still being maintained and upgraded by a Regulation of the European Union. The Regulation lays down the responsibility for the marketing and safety of cosmetic products, the assessment of consumer health suitability, the prohibition and conditional authorisation of ingredients, the labelling of products, the ban on testing on animals, the regulation of so-called nanotherapists and the introduction of a system for monitoring undesirable effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the New Slovenia Group and Mrs Iva Dimic have the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The title of the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Cosmetic Products is already quite clear. The proposed law repeals the double regulatory regime in this area, as the legislative matter in the field of cosmetic products is governed by a substantively extensive Regulation No. 1223/2009, adopted on 30 November 2009 and entered into force in January 2010, as well as the Regulation implementing this Regulation as set out in this July. Since the Regulation is directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union, national legislation has become unnecessary. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill. However, I would like to give the Ministry the initiative to update the section of business reports slightly, given that the users of cosmetic products are all residents, so that citizens and citizens can also be informed of statistics on the implementation of the law or on the new regulations, such as the number of inspections carried out, as well as the general status of surveillance of the safety of cosmetic products in our country. In New Slovenia, we expect the Ministry to take our initiative into account and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Jazbec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u128	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Nice greetings to all present! Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will certainly support the Proposal for a Law on the Cessation of the Law on Cosmetic Products, as this is a logical consequence of the direct implementation of the European acquis. We have aligned the existing Cosmetic Products Act with the European Union's rules on cosmetic products provided for in the 1976 European Directive. At that time, the law laid down the conditions to be met by cosmetic products on the market in order to ensure their appropriateness and smooth traffic and control. In 2009, the European Union carried out a thorough recast of existing legislation on cosmetic products, where it has consolidated and fully replaced the applicable rules by the Cosmetic Products Regulation until then. This is now in our legal order somehow implemented by the Regulation implementing the Regulation. Since the new regime is, as it is said, fully applicable in all Member States of the European Union, existing legislation is unnecessary and needs to be repealed and enforced. With the expiry of this law, there are also 8 other regulations that have somehow been bound by this law and one is maintained, as the Secretary of State has already mentioned today. Therefore, this area is new to the EU regulation. Although it sounds dry, so much for illustration that we know why it is; the new definitions and definitions of what is a cosmetic product in general and what is a cosmetic product are defined, the safety of traffic with them and, in particular, the responsibility holders are determined by this. In fact, this Regulation has ten chapters, a notification of serious undesirable side effects, then a symbol of an open book where safety warnings and ingredients are available, it is no longer possible to indicate somewhere on the inside of the packaging and a symbol of an open pot, that it is essential that there is always a deadline for use after opening the product, not only until it is closed. There are many such things, and I would specifically mention another larger area, namely the area of nanomaterials. There are a lot of security concerns here, and the regulation also regulates this by recasting, modern regulation and it is only right that we use it. This existing law of ours, however, is no longer in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Ms Irena Tavčar will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not oppose the proposal for a law on the termination of the Cosmetic Products Act, since it is a measure to abolish the dual regulatory regime in the field of the handling of cosmetic products. This enables the smooth implementation of the European Union's common organisation. With regard to pending criminal, administrative and judicial proceedings, a transitional period is foreseen for the completion of these proceedings already in accordance with the current rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! I myself would like to present briefly the position of our Group of Members. In short, the area of cosmetic products or products in Slovenia is currently governed by three regulations, namely the EC Code on Cosmetic Products 1223/2009, the Regulation implementing the Cosmetic Products Regulation and, of course, our own Slovenian Law, the Law on Cosmetic Products. Regulations in the European Community are directly applicable in the national law of the Member States, which means that the provisions of such regulations must be fully complied with. Currently, the area of cosmetic products or products is double standarded in Slovenia and the Cosmetic Products Act has become unnecessary. For these reasons, of course, we will support the Social Democrats in the Proposal for a Law on the Cessation of the Law on Cosmetic Products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you again, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! By using cosmetic products, we meet consumers at our birth. Over the years, the number of cosmetic products used daily is only increasing. When it comes to cosmetics, let’s first think about perfumes and other makeup products. However, cosmetic products include not only decorative cosmetic products, but also personal hygiene and care products, suntanning products and others. A cosmetic product that is available on the market must be safe for human health, as many besides their useful and useful salaries also have dangerous properties that may cause more or less serious consequences for human health in the face of reckless, irresponsible or improper use. A number of measures and activities have been introduced in Slovenia and the European Union to manage these risks and to reduce harmful effects. In 2009, the European Union carried out a thorough revision of existing legislation on cosmetic products. It has brought together the rules in force until then and has fully regulated them with a new regulation, which is fully and directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union, which makes it no longer necessary to transpose them into national legal systems. With the adoption of this law, Slovenia will implement the last necessary measure to abolish this dual regulatory regime in the field of cosmetics treatment. Members and Members of the National Gazette will support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position will be presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, representatives of the Government! The proposed law on the termination of the Cosmetic Products Act is a result of the implementation of the 2009 European Cosmetic Products Regulation, which is applied directly in EU Member States without the need for transposition into national law. As a result, the regulation of the area of treatment of cosmetic products in the Slovenian legal order has become unnecessary and is repealed by the proposed law. The only exception is two regulations issued under the repealed Cosmetic Products Act, which remain in force until further notice. We have no special comments in the Slovenian People's Party's Group on the proposed solutions, so we will not oppose the proposed law on the termination of the Cosmetic Products Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position will be presented by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The basic reason for the draft law is the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2009 on cosmetic products which entered into force on 11 July this year. For its implementation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted a national implementing regulation. By implementing a regulation of the European Union directly applicable, the current legislation in the field has become unnecessary and is being repealed by the proposed law. The repeal of the Cosmetic Products Act also repeals all sub-laws issued on its basis, except the Regulation on the method of sampling and methods for laboratory analyses of cosmetic products, which continue to apply mutatis mutandis in order to maintain the consistency of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the EU acquis. The repeal of the law itself does not bring about changes in the production and transport of cosmetic products, as the EU regulation of the area retains the mechanisms that have been put in place so far. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on the termination of the Cosmetic Products Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Hršak. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Thursday, 24 October 2013 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item, this is on the exploratory proposal for a resolution on the National Youth Programme 2013-2022. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, here present Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u140	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Vice President! A good day and at the same time thank you very much for allowing me to place a few emphasis on the national youth programme in this high assembly again today. As you probably know, we have repeatedly stressed this in these months, in fact it is the first truly strategic document in Slovenia for young people, which will in one place link policies to young people in a very transparent, comprehensive and cross-cutting way. It's what we call a horizontal document. So a document that's not just a matter of one source or two, but it wants to look at the politics of young people in a comprehensive way and consider it as such. This is a document that was produced not only under this government but, in fact, in a period of three governments, which is based on numerous analyses and research, not least, and was a key research called Youth 2010. The national programme is based on facts and is realistic and, therefore, for all those objectives it covers, we want them to be the most widely conquered and in this way to achieve their full purpose. What is most important in this national programme is that it was created in cooperation with young people. This gives him, I think, a special seal and, of course, a value. The slogan, which we somehow adopted, "Nothing about young people without young people" is actually the most beautifully embossed in this document. This is a mix of specificities on the one hand, in order to ensure that the resources are committed, and on the other hand, to the general public, so that in all these measures and in the multitude of matters set out in the national programme we will not lose the strategic nor, this is our common commitment to young people and to dealing with youth problems. What will follow, if this high assembly is inclined to this document, is expected first to be a one-year implementation plan, which will, of course, be followed by four other two-year plans. This implementation plan will take place on the one hand on the budget for the following year, the 2015 budget and all other budgets, on the other hand on European funds, first on the balances and, of course, later on on the regular work, on the systemic measures and as I also said on the multiannual financial plan. Of course, I would like, on behalf of the proposer, that, as in previous presentations, the resolution on the national youth programme, as well as on the Committee and the Council of State, be given the widest possible political support. With this, I will give a very clear signal to policy makers that young people are our top priority and at one time have committed the Government to take very clear and clear steps along the path outlined in this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jožef Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, respectable National Assembly! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is at its 9th regular session, 3. Ten. 2013, discussed a motion for a resolution on the national Youth Programme 2014-2022 submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The legislative and legal service has examined the resolution submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view and has commented on certain chapters. She presented the following written opinion and explained that their comments were largely taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and said that certain editorial corrections would be made in the final review. The motion for a resolution was also addressed by the Commission of the Council of State for Culture, Science, Sport and Education and the Council of State, both supported the motion for a resolution. On 18 September 2013, on the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a public presentation of opinions aimed at obtaining an opinion and an opinion from the professional and general public on the Proposal for a Resolution on the National Youth Programme 2014-2022. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Mirko Pečarič, said in his introduction to the motion for a resolution that the resolution makes sense to define principles, key guidelines and guidelines that will guide the transition of young people to adulthood and will also take into account when designing and implementing existing public youth policies. He also explained the areas covered by the resolution: education, employment and entrepreneurship, youth living conditions, health and well-being, youth and society, and the importance of the youth sector and culture, creativity, heritage and the media. In the course of the debate, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members spoke mainly in the opening part of the motion for a resolution, in the field of education and in the field of health and well-being. In the opening work, the debaters expressed their support for the motion for a resolution. They considered that it involved the general public and that many analyses had been carried out, including a key research by Youth 2010. There was also some debate on the objectives and areas of the national youth programme in the field of education. These are in line with the key European Union development document, Europe 2020 and the Smart, Sustainable and Inclusive Growth Strategy. In the area of health and well-being, which is included in one of the flagship initiatives of the Europe 2020 strategy, a committee amendment has been proposed to define the frequency of drug intervention by young people. It was explained by the Ministry that the field of drugs is dealt with separately and the proposed amendment goes into too much detail, which is covered by legislation or health legislation professionally and in detail. The majority position of young, professional and members and members of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth was that the resolution provided a good basis for the preparation of the implementation plans to be drawn up by the Government within three months of the adoption of the resolution in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee then voted jointly and adopted all parts of the motion for a resolution in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The supplementary motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the delegation of Positive Slovenia, Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings, president, minister, colleagues and colleagues! Special greetings to young colleagues who are here: chronologically young, young people who meet this criterion. As regards the resolution of the national programme, I believe that both the Minister and the President of the Education Committee have said essential things in the introduction and I would like to speak on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group. In short, if the resolution is acceptable to young people and if it is good for them, it is clear to us. This proved to be not least in the public presentation of the opinions we organised, where young people gave their views on the resolution. It was created in accordance with Article 16 of the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, which means that there is a starting point for this genetics, which is quite long-lasting, as the Minister said. Two analyses, 2009 and 2010, are crucial, which means that, in some respects, it also has its basis in these analyses. Clearly, I do not intend to speak on behalf of young people without them, but I would rely on a statement from the debate I have made with interested young people. They said something that has a lot harder for me and us in Positive Slovenia. They said, I will not literally say now that we should not worry about them, allow conditions for them to take care of themselves, and this statement is in principle the essence of this resolution. Six areas, from education, employment, participation, health and culture – these six are priority areas. Perhaps it would suggest exposing, not in terms of discrimination, the area of education and employment as key in this respect. In fact, while the labour market dictates a need to educate young people, young people are not focused on education only for the needs of the labour market, and are also willing to bear their personal responsibility, which is in line with the ideas of Positive Slovenia, which speaks about trusting young people and respecting older ones. And then this trust must in fact also be shown, made possible, acted upon, and also provoked by this personal responsibility. And we like that. That this is a horizontal document is also a fact and this is a very important fact. This means that all the departments participate in the document, otherwise the matter would be impossible, or just one wish. The resolution can be monitored and has indicators to be followed, which is also very important. If something is being monitored, it can also be repaired or upgraded. This is one important fact. And finally, an implementation plan. The resolution is bound by implementation plans, one plus three times two, but these implementation plans depend on budgets. This week, the Simbioza project, where young people learn to use ICT older, is called modern technology, computers, phones. When it comes to symbiosis, it is a matter of mutual well-being, then this benefit can be expected in the sense that older people, by fulfilling their civic obligations, will be able to fill the budget, both through taxes or through the pursuit of a grey economy, work in black and similar ways, and thus provide a share of the resources that we can then implement through implementation plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, the National Assembly, Mr. Secretary-General. According to the Youth 2010 survey, the number of young people in Slovenia is declining very quickly. In recent years, the number of young people has decreased by 11% and we can expect a 20% drop in this decade. The number of older people per youth in Slovenia is expected to triple by 2050. Throughout the education system in Slovenia, it is possible to detect a lack of professional advice and career guidance, and the link between the education system and the labour market is poor. Thus, it is not surprising that Slovenian education is ineffective, for each year it educates different profiles that they want or need in the economy. Slovenia is first in the European Union after temporary employment, young people are characterised by frequent transitions between employment and the incidence of unemployment. They face a lack of work experience and, on the other hand, young people with fresh knowledge of theory and many social and technical competences often come to the labour market. Being alone is one of the key points of a young individual’s independence. In Slovenia, we are at the very top of the European Union when we are talking about the proportion of young people living with their parents. Research Youth 2010 gives us data that 68% of young people between the ages of 18 and 34 are still at home with their parents. All these are the reasons why the situation of young people in the Republic of Slovenia is poor and it is sad that it is deteriorating. That's why we're all responsible. We young people, we as those who have been shaping politics since independence, so politics, education, we are all responsible for this. And I would allow myself to say on behalf of young people that I have, and that we have these Flossules, that "the young world is standing," slowly enough, I can say full suitcase. There is something to be done, but not just talk. There is a lot of talk about young people, especially positive and patronizing, but usually before the elections and when there are various campaigns for obtaining votes. Such is the empty wording of the President of the Government, who forces young people abroad with his fiscal measures. Let's just say I come from Lower Plum and see my peers drive to neighbouring Austria every day. At the same time, I would like to say that young people in this crisis are paying the highest costs, and therefore they are not responsible. Young people, let's say a passive foot adjustment policy and activate! While the resolution on the national Youth Programme 2013-2022 is well prepared and it is worth commending the Ministry, the Minister has already said that this resolution was being drafted by three governments, including the Youth Office. We are saddened by the only fact that the ruling coalition did not support the SDS amendment, which would involve economic and crafts representatives more in cross-sectoral policy-making. But apparently, the Social Democrats think and think that all young people want to work in the public sector or the public sector is the engine for young people's business. I believe we don't want to set such patterns. We need, in particular, systemic solutions that will enable young people to create. Finally, I would like to add that we will support the Resolution on the National Youth Programme 2013-2022, while at the same time noting that we will, of course, take appropriate action in case of delays in concrete actions and activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Article 16 of the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector is the legal basis for the resolution that we are considering today. However, in the public presentation of opinions, and also in the Committee's consideration, it was not possible to overlook the fact that some people are below the age of 15, although the resolution concerns young people aged 15 to 29, because for younger people, it is a programme for children and youth, which is based on the Convention on Human Rights. Let me stress in particular that the Government is extremely concerned about young people. The Government recently adopted an updated programme for children and youth from 2013 to 2016. That before the previous government of Ivan Janša, the government has also done something on socio-political steps and has put in place mechanisms for greater participation of young people, let me remind you that we have included in the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the governing body, that is, in the world of secondary school or student home, including students. Or let's say that, by means of the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, we have identified the public interest institutions, defined the powers of the Youth Office, defined this legal provision on the necessity of the National Youth Programme, legalised the Council of the Government for Youth, laid down the conditions and means for granting public interest status, that we have provided the legal basis for the formation of acts for youth at local level, established the procedure and method of financing of youth workers, and created a basis for the award of awards in the youth sector. And I would only add to this the idea of Social Democrats that we might think of putting 16 years as the limit for the exercise of electoral rights. So much for these bases. It has already been said that the resolution is based on a number of acts. It has already been quoted as a Youth 2010 study, which we have also discussed in more detail in the National Assembly on the competent parent body, and we would like to say from this study some things that we need to take into account when we talk about the resolution on the national youth programme. Indeed, the proportion of the study population between the ages of 20 and 24 in Slovenia is far highest among the countries of the European Union. And the growth in the number of students and the reflection on tertiary education and the extent of the resources we have for this part of education would indicate a more extensive model for the development of tertiary education – that is, not the expansion and excessive expansion of new institutions, new institutions. The proportion of early school leavers was among the lowest in the previous decade, but it should be stressed that young people are aware of the importance of informal forms of education. As many as 92% of them mentioned in the survey that informal forms of education are very important, only a set of educational forms or content should be moved. In fact, they give priority to languages and computer science and less to other forms of education. In considering and weighing between permissive education and repressive education – in fact, the latter is getting more and more advocates in Slovenia – it points out that it is true that the individual responsibility of young people needs to be stressed, but it certainly does not show that the benefits of permissive education are being denied. However, in the Youth 2010 survey or survey, only one other information would be provided regarding the situation of young people in the country. Young people do not see the problem of living with their parents, but we should be concerned that at least one child has 50% of the young at 29 years of age, but only 15% of those living with their parents. Surely, the resolution offers many opportunities for reflection and for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and by Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! "The young world stands," says an old proverb mentioned earlier by our respected colleague. However, the statistics on this river unfortunately take the power of the message. Let me just give you two indicators that I think are particularly worrying. The first indicator shows that the number of young people between the ages of 15 and 29 is steadily falling and is projected to represent only 14.4% of the population by 2060. At the same time, it may also be necessary to add that official statistics do not yet show the impact of the current several years of the ongoing crisis, which in fact does not appear to be the end and which could actually worsen demographic indicators. Second, the number of registered unemployed young people between 15 and 29 increased by 48.9 % between December 2008 and December 2011. Considering that a young person’s employment means a stepping stone to his family’s personality, independence, and planning, we can see how disastrous long - term consequences will be for our society. About the resolution. The motion for a resolution on the national youth programme is a document which, through its analysis and research orientations, is intended to help change these trends in a positive direction. The resolution addresses the overall scope and functioning of young people between 15 and 29 years of age with its objectives. These areas have already been mentioned, and I repeat them quickly: education, employment and entrepreneurship, the living situation of young people, health and well-being, youth and society, and the importance of the youth sector and ultimately culture, creativity, heritage and the media. The resolution also contains a list of key guidelines, while ensuring better opportunities through education, ensuring economic and social security of its own to pay attention to health and ensure a safe start to the career path. It may also make sense to consider one of the key guidelines that might be written down to indicate a socially secure start to the family path. We are talking about young people between the ages of 15 and 29. Since the resolution takes up a period of nine years, its effectiveness will in fact only confirm the simultaneous monitoring and evaluation of the results measured by individual indicators. In the event of the failure of certain measures, the implementation plan may also be adapted and aligned with the annual budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are confident that the Resolution on the National Youth Programme 2013-2022, which has been prepared in cooperation with many stakeholders, will achieve its purpose and therefore we support it. Allow me to conclude by expressing my conviction that the actual problems that young people faced and I mentioned them at the outset should be slowly understood by the older ones, because if the young world is standing as a saying, this means that they are the foundation of society, and if the foundation is bad, even the good roof will not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the national Youth Programme 2013-2022, despite the slightly older statistics it contains, is last but not least before us, which, of course, we welcome in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. It is high time that commitments are made in the youth sector, which will give young people conditions for a better future, for a better life in Slovenia, not abroad. Politicians often have a mouthful of beautiful and encouraging words about our young people, and, on the other hand, by adopting different copies, we often do not give them the opportunity to develop our potentials, to make a successful transition to the labour market, to a better tomorrow. As a result, young people leave the country, usually after their free education, because at home they simply no longer see hope for their professional and personal growth and for the creation of a family. They don't see the future anymore. In order to prevent or contain such scenarios, however, in the view of our Group, we need horizontal and vertical measures, which are nevertheless well defined in the proposed resolution, but which, in our opinion, are lacking in concreteness. Let me just give you one example. The resolution repeatedly mentions the lack of alignment between supply and demand in the labour market. It is worth mentioning that this is a serious structural problem, the result of which is the high unemployment rate of young graduates, but somehow we do not know how to deal with it. While the former government has tried to correct this imbalance by restricting entry into certain study programmes, the responses from part of the policy, rectors, media and others have been sufficiently eloquent. Everything has to be done so nothing can be done. The proposed resolution, as it is said, perceives this problem, but I fear that the proposed objectives are more because they must be and there will be no concrete effects. In the meantime, young people will continue to go abroad. I would particularly like to point out this fundamental flaw in the proposed document, namely the complete absence of the concept of education. In the main part of the document is a talk about education, while education is released despite the fact that the document also interferes with the teen population. Education does not end with the concept of primary school, but it continues through the entire secondary school, university and beyond. So, also with education for sustainable development, education for responsible parenting, family planning and so on. The next point that we would also like to point out in the Slovenian People's Party's Group is the lack of guidance on how to increase the information and digital literacy of young people. Low information and digital literacy can occur mainly in very remote places, where there is little chance of establishing an internet connection, and in the case of socially weaker young people, and therefore, we believe that this measure should include a regional review, since consistent regional development in this area is very lame. Your Honor! The proposed resolution on the national programme 2013-2022 is indeed a declaration document which, by its very nature, cannot give concrete answers to all the questions raised at this moment in the field of youth policy. The latter should at least be answered in grave terms by implementing plans based on the objectives of the resolution and thus identify specific measures. The Minister promised these implementation plans within three months of the adoption of the resolution, and I hope that he will keep this promise. Despite the concerns expressed in the Slovenian People's Party, we will not oppose this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you for your word and for your warm welcome to all present! At the end of 2012, there were slightly less than 360,000 young people living in Slovenia, representing 17.5%, and Slovenia is one of the old societies. Statistics show that in July of this year, almost 27,000 years old and under 29 years old were registered unemployment. Young people who are able to obtain employment are mainly provided with temporary employment. The share of temporary employment among employees aged 15 to 24 at the end of 2012 was 71.4% of the unemployed, the farthest in the euro community, which is a community of 28 countries. In addition, last year youth unemployment in Slovenia increased most of the EU's Member States. Slovenia is also the world recorder of the increase in the age of the female next to the firstborn, which has grown by five years in recent years, from 23.8 to 29 years. Let me also say that a thousand 570 young people have moved from Slovenia last year, which is most after independence, and that alcohol is quite a permanent companion of the young population, as 90% of young people occasionally enjoy it. Statistics can be quite dry, but today these numbers reveal the alarming situation in the field of young people in Slovenia, before which we have been blinding our eyes in our society for a long time. This situation is not merely a consequence of the crisis, because some of the concerns were exhilarating, such as hotel mom syndrome, temporary employment of young people and low birth rates, even before our recession in society. The problem is clearly deeper than we think, and we want to admit, although there is no denying that the crisis has made the situation worse. I wonder what we have done in our country in the field of youth in the past. The fact that the Government should send the National Youth Programme to the National Assembly as early as December 2011 confirms my view that obviously we have not taken matters seriously enough. Our society, by reminding us of solidarity with the elderly, is constantly knocking on the conscience of young people, with it closing its eyes that, in fact, young people are in an extremely insurmountable position, especially in the labour market, which we are talking about, and in fact we do not have, because we do not have jobs. How dare young people follow their dreams when at every step they are accompanied by uncertainty and the feeling that there is no room for them in this society. The motion for a resolution answers many of these questions, but I fear that sometimes solutions are too general and because of the lack of financial resources are uncertain. I'm asking you whether the world is still standing on young people or whether we're actually preventing them. The resolution is the first step towards the necessary changes and we will certainly support it in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u156	Dear Mr. Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed resolution is indeed broad and thorough. In New Slovenia we welcome a broad public debate on this subject and a public presentation of opinions. This public debate was also attended by Mlada Slovenije, a young man from Nova Slovenije, because in Nova Slovenije we see in young people and their knowledge a decisive potential for the future and development of our country. In our opinion, the biggest problem in Slovenia is the implementation of the written. For we all know for a long time what problems we have in Slovenia with regard to young people, but it is very difficult to deal with fundamental changes. In the New Slovenia Group, we want to highlight the areas that we consider to be among the most beautiful. We have high participation in tertiary education, unfortunately, mainly because this saves youth unemployment. As long as they have a status, they can work as students and they're not on unemployment records. Whoever breaks this artificial decline in unemployment will, in our view, make an important move towards normalising the situation in the country, while at the same time working on how to find new jobs for those young people who remain unemployed despite knowledge, despite good education. More concern must be given to the employment of young people through good education planning. In New Slovenia we claim that we need different professions and people with different levels of education. Therefore, we should certainly do more in raising the awareness of young people and their parents, whose professions the market needs, where their future is, and how to manage it through scholarship policy. There are scholarships for deficient professions being introduced, which is good. However, we still have a number of programmes that are their own intended purpose or that are being introduced because new faculties are being created, new programmes are being created and professors must be employed. First of all, we need to think about whether these young people who are learning in some program will then be able to get a job. In the years when they have the most vital energy and even fresh knowledge, many seek employment in the country for nothing. Given that the number of young people is declining over the years and the number of older people is increasing, these generations will have to bear a great deal of responsibility for the survival of Slovenia in the future. If we succeed in all of this, or at least most of what we have defined as a problem in this resolution, then I will make significant progress. Too often, however, there are no decisive steps. New Slovenia will support this resolution, and we call on the Government to implement it as much as possible and also wisely for the benefit of all of us. We say that young people are our future — not to be hopeless, but to give young people hope for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The draft resolution on the national Youth Programme 2013-2022 will also receive our support. We estimate that in view of the current challenges of society, in particular the concern that the constant decline in youth participation in the structure of the population of the Republic of Slovenia and the very high unemployment rate, the proposed resolution is necessary. We believe that the solutions proposed follow the interests of the implementation of youth in our society and point quite comprehensively to the content and creation of policies that are necessary and also strategically justified. Of course, only strategic documents and this resolution will not suffice, so we expect, as others have already stressed today, concrete actions in all priority areas also in practice. I am also pleased with the support of the proposed amendments to our parliamentary group, which has also resulted in the substantive improvement of the original text from the point of view of indigenous nationalities and other ethnic and minority angles. In this context, I summarise the most important content. In accordance with the provisions of the Act on the grant, the updated text of the resolution also underlines the importance of the subjectivity of young people of indigenous national communities in the field of scholarship in order to acquire competences of economy, responsibility and autonomy. In view of the more consistent implementation of the law, evaluation and recognition of education in relation to study programmes that do not exist in Slovenia, it is important to complement the text, which ensures that, in the case of specific study programmes which are important in terms of the conservation and development of national communities, it is possible to recognise them. Finally, we welcome the upgrading of the text in the area of culture, creativity, heritage and media, which provides young people of all types of national communities with access to culture, not all of them, and vulnerable groups with an active and creative role in the development of their culture, their equal participation in cultural life and their quality integration into the wider social environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place on Thursday, 24 October 2013, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On the day-to-day basis, this is the draft resolution on the National Programme for Adult Education in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2020. The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Jerne Pical, Minister of Education, Science and Sport. In our midst, I also welcome Mr Dejan Levanič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u160	Madam President, Members and Members of Parliament. Hello again! This time we bring you the Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia between 2013 and 2020. As you probably know, it was created under the Adult Education Act, which is a statutory law setting out the objectives of education, priority areas, defining activities and, of course, the scope of public funds. What I would also like to stress in this national programme is its horizontal character. So this is also where we wanted to systematically upgrade the ways of regulation so far, and in this way we also wanted to take a more systematic approach to the issue of adult education for the next period. It's also a document that's been coming up for a while. Finally, on 16 May of this year, the Expert Council on Adult Education turned on the green light and gave him a positive opinion. The objectives of this programme are clear and predetermined, and allow me to tell a vision before the goals. It is a vision to give every adult in the Republic of Slovenia equal opportunities for quality education in all life periods. The resulting objectives are, of course, to raise the educational level of the population, thereby increasing employability, improving learning opportunities as well as integration into education and raising education in general. But that we will not speak in general, because I think, as you have pointed out several times before, that this talk is too much, I would therefore like to make very clear what the operational objectives of this programme are. On the one hand, as regards general adult education, we want to increase the proportion of adults, the population from 25 to 64, from 5 to 8%, so that more people will be included in general education. Secondly, as far as raising the general educational level of adults is concerned, from 2011, when about 4.4% of those who had completed primary school, we want to halve that by 2020, so to get to about 2.2%. At the same time, we want to raise the proportion of adults, again those from the 25th to the 64th years who have completed secondary vocational education, from 57% today to 63% and possibly more in 2020. And for the third time, as far as raising the general level of education is concerned, we want to encourage those between the ages of 30 and 34 to complete the tertiary education that they usually started as slightly younger ones. This is also our goal because we want to encourage this process by enrolling in higher education programmes. However, as regards the work relating to education and training for the needs of the labour market, we want at least half of the unemployed to be included in the programmes of increasing employment opportunities during the period of this programme, i.e. between 2013 and 2020, in line with the APZ. Well, at least half. In particular, this means that, in these years, we will spend some less than €400,000 on measures to promote these operational objectives. Not much, but this money will be built up with the resources of local communities, employers' funds, individuals' resources, and with all the funds earmarked for these projects from European and other international sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you, Madam President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! At the same meeting, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the Resolution on the National Youth Programme and considered the Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for 2013-2020, that is 3. Ten. 2013 The legislative and legal service examined the motion for a resolution and commented on the fifth section and the representative explained below that their comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and said that they had no comments on the amendments tabled. The motion for a resolution was also addressed by the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Sport and Education, which also supported the motion for a resolution. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Mirko Pečarič, said in the introduction of the motion for a resolution that the Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia ceased to apply from 2005 to 2010. Based on the analysis and implementation, the assessment of the situation in the field of adult education and the social economic situation in Slovenia and the international comparison, a vision for the development and objectives of adult education has been developed by 2020. In the course of the discussion, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members spoke mainly about the examination and the introductory part of the motion for a resolution and expressed their support for the motion for a resolution. Lifelong education was considered extremely important and should therefore be encouraged in different forms. Both formal and informal education and education and training for labour market needs are important. The Ministry was given the initiative to develop a strategy and a network of adult education institutions in the future so that they could be provided with a balanced coverage of the entire Slovenian field. The motion for a resolution was also welcomed by the representative of the Union of Human Universities of Slovenia. He said that these include key objectives, however, that they have problems within the system framework, as adults are not placed in the system environment. He stressed the need to establish systemic funding, since human universities depend mainly on European funds and, otherwise, there may be revenue shortfalls in the future. With regard to education for higher education, some discussers felt that the emphasis should also be on the establishment and organisation of a network of secondary schools, in particular vocational or vocational secondary schools, which already employ teachers or experts in certain fields of knowledge. Experts in the field of deficit occupations are particularly important here. This would, in their view, preserve existing jobs and a network of vocational or vocational secondary schools throughout Slovenia. The Ministry explained that the policy of addressing labour market needs through the activities of high school networks is too acute. In addition to secondary schools, there are other institutions that educate adults. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all parts of the motion for a resolution jointly and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution in which amendments are adopted is prepared under Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The updated motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mateja Pučnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The motion for a resolution on the national adult education programme will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We are very well aware that the adult education programme is of paramount importance, especially in times of economic crisis, high unemployment, general ageing and longer working hours. Every adult in Slovenia must be given equal opportunities for quality education in all life periods, as Mr Minister has already said. Thus, the Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme 2013-2020 covers the education, training and training of persons who have completed primary education. It also defines the national adult education policy and provides the basis for planning annual education programmes, both formal and informal education. In particular, the latter should be given even more attention and, of course, should also be given to the proper evaluation of informal education programmes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we do not believe that sufficient emphasis is given in the resolution on the effectiveness of education. We do not need a methodology to allow traceability to individuals and social groups who have re-employment and training or who have improved their position as employees. So, more than quantity, the quality of education programmes must be at the forefront. Programmes are actually effective when an individual benefits from education and education is of quality, especially if he sees the needs of the labour market in Slovenia and allows employment. The resolution also lacks the concrete integration of secondary schools, in particular vocational and vocational secondary schools, which can provide adult education, make it more accessible, offers superior equipment and appropriate professional staff. While we regret in the Group that the amendments tabled on the basis of these two proposals were not supported by the Home Committee. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support and, of course, closely monitor the emergence of an action plan to be drawn up by the Government or the Ministry in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The resolution on the national adult education programme 2013-2020 is a coherent text which, in the introduction, provides an accurate assessment of the situation, including shortcomings, and on the basis of the current situation of Slovenia, identifies the target groups to which the programme is intended. It further defines objectives, priority areas and indicators. In the Group of Social Democrats, we regret that two years have passed since the expiry of the previous resolution, but we believe that some things need to be stressed from the previous resolution or from the implementation of the last resolution. The analysis carried out clearly showed that the definitions and provisions in the resolution, despite some shortcomings, had a significant and positive impact on the development and enforcement of adult education. It is also important to stress that the material conditions for adult education have improved significantly, which has also contributed to greater involvement in various education and training programmes. Major progress has been made in training programmes for work, including a system of validation of national professional qualifications. The enrolment of adults in higher education has also increased. However, worse results than anticipated were for adults and for general non-formal learning programmes when entering the primary school programme. The number of participants in certain publicly applicable programmes has greatly increased at the expense of legally defined public programmes to be visited by all employees, e.g. for a hygiene minimum, for protection at work and so on. However, let me point out that something like this happened last year in adult education that we did not agree with. For example, the ZUJF has prepared a basis for merging some support institutions into some kind of meganational institute. Fortunately, the idea was not implemented, but one of the organizations that wanted to unite or terminate it was also the Andragog Center of Slovenia. This merger was publicly opposed and received clear support from stakeholders in this area. I could now describe what they had pointed out in the Andragog Centre of Slovenia, what would have been lost if this merger had been realized. Luckily, as I said, she wasn't. However, other institutions or other types of institutions of fundamental importance for adult education are certainly human universities. We must point out that human universities as basic agents of adult education are also strongly highlighted in the resolution, and we would like to point out that they have been facing increasing problems in recent years, which are also the result of their reduction. For example, in 1997 there were 43, and in 2010 there were only 31. In recent years, human universities have faced at least two major problems. The first is the main funding from the Structural Funds – these are concluded this year and the next year is uncertain and the question is how to find bridge funds for smooth operation. The second problem is this – the annual adult education programme is generally adopted only at the beginning of the summer, so that people's universities are so nearly half a year without financial flows, which during the period of market failure poses additional problems. However, it should be pointed out that the White Paper on the School Network also speaks of people's universities and other forms of adult education as part of public programmes, so that concessional activities can also be achieved. And here I would like to stress that a network of educational organisations is very important to ensure the even distribution of those institutions that care for adult education due to the single regional development. We will support the resolution in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and by Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you again for the floor, Madam Vice President. All hail again! After the void that occurred after 2010, when the previous resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia expired, we have before us a motion for a resolution for the period 2013 to 2020. This is a basic document that sets guidelines for adult education up to 2020 and, of course, annual adult education programmes are adopted each year. The resolution follows the view that education or education should last throughout the whole life cycle, at all levels and for all groups of people — for those who would like to complete primary, vocational, secondary, high school or higher education and for those who have not obtained this opportunity in the past because of such or other circumstances, as well as for those who wish and need it, even because of the current crisis, through life. The resolution sets out priority areas for education, the first priority area: general adult education with emphasis on raising basic levels, functional literacy, early school leaving programmes, digital literacy programmes and so on. Next, a second priority area: education to raise the educational level of adults with emphasis on completing primary school and promoting vocational education upgrades, increasing the proportion of adults with completed secondary and higher education and retraining. Third priority area: training and education for work needs with emphasis on the implementation of educational programmes that will be tailored to the needs of the labour market, active employment policy measures, support activities focusing on counselling and shaping and quality. So these were three priority areas. Although the resolution itself, if you look at it, contains a lot of statistics, for illustration I would like to provide at least data on the unemployed in 2011, of which 35.6% were without professional or professional education, although they represented only 24.8% of the population over the age of 15. Furthermore, 24.9% were of lower or secondary vocational education, although they accounted for 23.6% of the population. 26.4% were such, i.e. unemployed, with secondary technical or vocational education, although they represented 32.7% of the population, and 12.5% of the unemployed with higher and higher vocational education or higher, and 18.7% of the population. What am I trying to say? So higher than the educational level, the lower unemployment rate is the percentage. Although, if you know the data, the number of unemployed also increases dramatically among highly educated, university-educated people. The figures show that the share of unemployment with higher levels of education is declining, and this is also one of the main arguments that knowledge in the life cycle needs to be upgraded and complemented. Throughout history, mankind is developing to build on its knowledge and ability. This is driven by the inherent competitiveness and the need for competitiveness. And if we want to be competitive in the global world, adult education is also a key way to achieve this goal. In the Citizens' List this way, and thus the draft resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013-2020, we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! In our lives, the only constant can be change, for it enriches us, strengthens us, and teaches us, and gives meaning to life. Our society must not stagnate, because this means failure, so our citizens must be given education, and they must nurture and strengthen their personal growth through education. It is therefore important that we in our country raise the educational level of the population and thus increase the employability of the active population. If we want to improve general education, which must also be our basic objective, we need to improve the possibility of learning and integration into education. These are also the main objectives of education in the national adult education programme and we will therefore support the draft resolution on the national adult education programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2013 to 2020. We also support the resolution because it eliminates shortcomings in the Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme in the Republic of Slovenia by 2010, which is mainly the unsatisfactory performance of adults in the adult primary school programme, the lack of cooperation between adult education providers and so on. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will primarily support decisions and projects that will promote justice, social cohesion and an active citizen. Only on this basis can we provide education and training for all citizens, regardless of their personal, social or economic situation, and enable lifelong learning, updating and developing the science and skills relevant to specific jobs, as well as the key competences necessary for their employability, and the promotion of further learning, active citizenship and intercultural dialogue. Lifelong learning is very important and must therefore be encouraged in different forms. Both formal and informal education and education and training for labour market needs are important. As I said at the outset, we support the proposed resolution in the Slovenian People's Party. However, we are afraid, given the proposed budget changes, that this will be another resolution to be adopted and not implemented due to an incorrect approach to austerity measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Today, education is an important part of an individual’s life and does not end with formal education in youth. A modern global information society requires us to keep learning, adapting, developing and making progress. It is at a time of crisis that it is of paramount importance that we upgrade our knowledge and adapt to the current situation, thus improving our employability and competitiveness in the labour market. The resolution on the national adult education programme for the period until 2020 is a strategic development document setting out the public interest in adult education in the National Assembly. It seems from this point of view that the document submitted for the economic crisis and the very uncertain situation in the labour market is too ambitious and insufficiently concrete. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the education of vulnerable groups of the population and the accessibility problems of formal and informal education at local level is under-focused. It is worth noting that vulnerable groups also include older populations, whose share of demographic change will increase significantly and the proportion of young and working populations will decrease. This will have important consequences for the labour market and the extension of work activities. For this reason, data show that there is a high proportion of under-educated people over 45 and that there is a high proportion of unemployed people over 50 who do not have vocational or vocational education. That information is alarming. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore believe that the resolution does not include a satisfactory scope of content and a solution for the area. Research shows that the education of adults involves a very small proportion of the unemployed, those with low education, the poorer, the rural population and the elderly. On this basis, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the resolution should also include instruments to promote and promote the benefits of education in all periods of life. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the resolution despite all these concerns. We believe that the Government will set more concrete and ambitious solutions in individual areas in the annual adult education programmes, in particular to ensure and include vulnerable groups in the adult education programme. As I have already said, we will support the Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme 2013-2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Ludmila Novak have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u174	Your Honor! Lifelong education is the law, you might say. In the New Slovenia Group, we are trying as well as many of our fellow citizens, that we have to educate ourselves all our lives in different areas. According to data from the analysis of the motion for a resolution, the educational composition of the population has improved over the last ten years. In 2011, 12.6% of the population achieved higher education and more. There is also a lower proportion of those who have no education. The most eloquent data are data showing the educational composition of the population by age group. This data clearly shows that older generations are much lower educated than younger generations. This is logical, of course, because the situation and accessibility of education for young people today are different than they used to be. But it is good that we also have the opportunity to upgrade our knowledge and education, expand our horizons, and some to complete our interrupted education. And development always requires new knowledge. The resolution is considered by the New Slovenia Group to be a good basis for guiding the country and, consequently, for investing public money in adult education in the future. We can fully agree with the main objectives of the proposed national programme, which are to raise the educational level of the population and the level of basic capacity, increase the employability of the active population, improve opportunities for learning and inclusion in education and improve general education. In doing so, we draw attention to some of the problems or challenges we face in this area, in addition to the poor economic conditions we face. Above all, the state should not blindly seek to support adult education in terms of quantity alone or in order to achieve statistical objectives. At least the same, if not more important, according to New Slovenia, the quality and usability of education have been achieved. This is why we call on all stakeholders to ensure that public money is invested, which is becoming increasingly scarce, best invested in education. The State is also responsible for creating a situation in which all residents, including those who are under-educated or belonging to vulnerable groups, can decide to participate in adult education. Currently, these two groups are under-involved in education, and this suggests a need for greater support. Most importantly, the country is responsible for establishing a stable and functioning adult education system that will enable the planning and integration of the economy and the various institutions that carry out the mission in the field of adult education. The New Slovenia Group will support the motion for a resolution and we also call on the Government to implement it quickly and effectively in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and Mr Jožef Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Resolutions are such that they are long-term, that they are considered to have a vision, and that is good. Therefore, the Resolution on the National Programme, adult education in the Republic of Slovenia for 2013-2020 is only proof that the government is serious about following the direction of lifelong education. This resolution is only a logical consequence and a continuation of the regulation, planning and direction of education in all areas. It also follows several times that education is the key to the development of society. Education is never a complete story and is a process in which there is a continuous interlocking between the formal and the informal way in which knowledge is given and acquired. In this process, knowledge is being complemented and built up, as people are being educated for today, for tomorrow and for the stock, so that the acquired knowledge can be used when it is needed. Therefore, sometimes it is pointless to talk about the fact that an educational institution is educating people we do not need right now. This is impossible, even the educational process itself cannot be like this. Certain programmes or certain smaller educational institutions may adapt to this. This education is about implementation or transfer of theory into practice and vice versa. In the process of education, it is not just about getting familiar, but there is a particular emphasis on finding new ways, new ideas, creativity and innovation. The resolution before us offers many possibilities for intergenerational integration and cooperation, i.e. intergenerational integration between institutions, institutions and institutions. We must not be burdened with a global view in the education process, but even less with age or age. It's knowledge or it's not, regardless of our age. And if it's not there, we need to provide opportunities and opportunities for those people who want to know to come to it. In particular, this resolution follows. Of course, the resolution itself does not mean much and much, unless there is an implementation plan, we have already heard that today, and I am sure, the Minister also said that these implementation plans are already in preparation. Such a document, such as the resolution on the national adult education programme, goes beyond the wishes of the daily policy and is aimed at the future and will therefore receive the support of Members and Members of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-22-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place on Thursday, 24 October 2013, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 18th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Thursday, 24 October 2013, at 9 a.m. Nicely greeted!
