ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Stefan Tisel. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is to the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act by the current procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. You have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. The purpose of the amendments to this Act is to take urgent measures to improve financing, the financial situation in health and, on the other hand, to remove imbalances in the payment of contributions from different debtors, and thus, of course, to ensure greater solidarity in the area of payment of contributions. We know the financial situation in health care is serious. It has been serious since 2009 when, even in recent years, healthcare deficits are being transferred over the coming years. There were several reasons, and there was a lot of talk about that. On the one hand, we are one of the few countries that only finance health care through contributions. On the other hand, today's situation in which the country is, and what is happening in all countries, is also affected by the increasing needs of citizens, and in this way there is an ever-increasing discrepancy between the health needs of all citizens and, on the other hand, between funding opportunities. We want to ensure more stable funding in 2014. In recent years, when contributions were reduced, hospital debt to suppliers was mainly increased due to lower prices for health services, and I think that a number of steps have been taken in the area of the functioning of these public health institutions, and until then there have been no significant interventions in health insurance rights themselves. And now we're at a point where health institutions can't do it anymore. And when we entered into the coalition contract of intervention law, we wrote down the behaviour that it should not come in 2014 to further reduce the prices of health services, as this could in fact mean that some health service providers are unable to work. In addition, by means of a proposal for amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act, we transpose the Directive on cross-border healthcare into the Slovenian legal order. While we are among the first countries, this directive means the possibility of free movement of cross-border healthcare patients to a certain extent, which is somehow defined here. This law defines the establishment of a national contact point as a place where all relevant information will be made available. Areas or health services for which the provisions of the Directive are not applicable shall be defined, for example, long-term care and certain other services. The prior authorisation procedure shall be defined when it comes to health services that need accommodation when it comes to health services related to expensive medical equipment, expensive infrastructure and the like. Reimbursement of health services costs shall be determined and the possibility of access being restricted should the funding system in the country itself be compromised. Next, what we are trying to do with this is to supplement the required volume of data on the records of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia due to better and more effective supervision and regularity of recording and accounting of health services. Another important point is to remedy the breach of the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 63, which the European Commission expounds to the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the prohibition on the restriction of the free movement of capital. Appropriate compromises have been adopted, appropriate amendments, which we have also supported, and I believe that the adoption of this amendment and the addition of the Health and Health Insurance Act are essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you for further explanation of the bill. The draft law itself was also regarded by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to President Alenka Jeraj to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! At its 14th emergency meeting on 23 October, the Health Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance as an emergency. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided to deal with it on an urgent basis, and on 15 October, the Group of Members submitted a request, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure, for that decision to be decided by the College. The National Assembly then decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. In her opening statement, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Brigita Čokl, stressed that the financial situation in the field of health has deteriorated over the last five years and that the internal reserves in the system are no longer in place. Today's situation shows a picture of over-indebted hospitals due to uncompensated losses and reduced prices of health services. In recent years we have not joined the systemic solution of the problem, even the opposite, since 2008 we have entered into additional obligations with different laws. Several measures were taken which were necessary due to the acute financial situation. In view of the threatening losses of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, measures are being prepared to bring around around 100 million additional resources to the health insurance company, as a result of the increase or extension of the contribution base to benefits from the second contractual relationship. The draft law also aligns the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with that of the European Union, introducing a Directive on the free movement of patients, which means that the same procedures will apply to insured persons in other EU Member States in respect of compulsory health insurance as in Slovenia and that insured persons will be entitled to reimbursement of costs for cross-border health care. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service summed up the written opinion below and stressed that the comments were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the members of the Coalition. Representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Mr Požun presented the opinion and comments of the Council of State on the draft law below. The National Council also supports the decision to resolve the health system through a new way of contributing, and draws attention to certain groups of citizens who will be affected by the amendment of the law, namely the unemployed, young unemployed persons, students after 26 years of age, foreigners with temporary residence permits and self-employed persons. The Council of State further presented its views and observations on the individual article of the bill. In the debate, members of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups objected to the urgency of the procedure because it is a very important change in the substantive nature. In particular, the law will not solve the biggest problem, sufficient funding for the health sector. The change should take place systematically, not in part, so that the financial effects are and will be smaller than they were intended to be. The proposer introduces a new content and implements the cross-border health directive, which was adopted in 2011, and now puts pressure on Members and the National Assembly to adopt it as a matter of urgency, so that the deadline is delayed. It is also unacceptable to increase contributions following an urgent procedure, while in other areas it is not possible to monitor measures to rationalise and seek internal reserves. In the discussion below, some members of the Committee stressed that, with the proposal of the law, many are not satisfied that, given the health insurance situation, the burden of insurance needs to be shared more evenly. It is not fair that certain categories of insurers pay relatively small contributions for a large amount of rights. However, the health insurance sector will have to be reorganized by a system law that is too long to be regulated. The Committee has adopted several amendments. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. The Committee also adopted an additional decision. The Ministry of Health should prepare a new Health and Health Insurance Act by the end of 2013. By the end of March 1014, the proposal for a law should be submitted for consideration by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Darko Jazbec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word and a nice greeting to all present! The previous report could be slightly more subjectively coloured, not as much as the report of the parent working body. In Positive Slovenia we support the amendment of this law. Due to the time delay and the various pressures of individual interest associations, the effect of these legislative changes will be lower than expected in the original design. We have already heard the contents of three areas, this is a financial impact, the second is the transposition of the EU Directive on cross-border healthcare. It is symbolic that the deadline for the implementation of this Directive is just today. The third area is a new definition up to the surplus of supplementary health insurance. It's about the financials. It's about two mothers. One is additional money, so around €36 million is to be spent in the health treasury. In Positive Slovenia, we are aware that this does not mean some definitive stability, but even less long-term financing solutions, but helps to avoid the collapse of the health register. The second sub-matter of this financial aspect is justice. In Slovenia we raise money for health care according to three principles. One is the justice that everyone gives something, the other is the reciprocity that everyone gives the same, the one who needs health care and the one who doesn't need it, and the third solidarity. This law increases justice the most, for we are eliminating some imbalances. In Slovenia we have an extremely complicated system of calculating contributions. 25 different formulas, items. So the long-term objective is to unify the contribution rate, but it will take a lot of effort to draw up such a system law. While this law tries to follow the principle, each income counts, but there are some exceptions, so it is right to mention them. These are passive incomes, farmers and pensioners. These are exempt from these burdens. Whether it is privileged groups or not, it will show further discussion in the preparation of the system law. It should be stressed that we have 25 different billing schemes when filling this health register, and we all have the same health rights in the celebration. The second area is the implementation of the EU Directive on cross-border healthcare. Since 2011, this Directive has been published in the Official Journal of the European Of course, we would not immediately follow the punishments, perhaps a reminder, but in Positive Slovenia we are aware that the word credibility has a great role to play, as it is directly linked to the trust of foreign institutions. We already have abroad treatment options in the mandatory health insurance policy. Last year, for example, there were 780 such approvals. The health insurance undertaking shall apply three other Regulations of the Council of Europe and of the European Parliament in these procedures. These are regulations on the coordination of social security systems. All these Regulations and Regulations remain in force even after the transposition of this Directive, so there is no dilemma and all the rights that have been maintained, including for example the escort and co-existence of one of the parents of a sick child, and the discussion on this is irrelevant. The transposition of this Directive will, in principle, extend the rights mainly to all outpatient health services, while hospital and tertiary services will need prior approval. As we have already heard, national contact points have also been introduced. These are the points where we get information from both the inhabitants of Slovenia and foreigners about cross-border health care. If we know the health system and the content of this law, then the adoption of this law is practically necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, again. We have health problems, but not only because of the financial crisis, but because we have not made some adjustments, but also because we have lost a lot of jobs in the last five years, which has reduced the number of contributors by almost 100,000, both in health and pension bills. This did not happen to us because of the crisis, but also because of the wrong actions of the Pahor government, which now continues by the government of Alenka Bratušek. There will be less €15.9 million in the health register due to VAT hikes or additional funds will be needed. Minister Gantar, a member of this government, and members of the coalition voted in favour of raising VAT, but now you are telling us that we must urgently adopt this law because there is a health deficit. This year, under this heading, €15.9 million, we will need almost 32 million next year. The government and the coalition, by their unwise measures, are causing losses in hospitals. We wonder if it will be seized, once again shows that no VAT rises as big as you dreamed, and as we told you at the reception, it will not. This is shown by practices from other countries. It's just that there's been some kind of misunderstanding. You raise taxes, vignettes, transports and thus create new deficits and job losses, and thus again fewer payers in health and pension bills. In 2008, 789 thousand 864 workers were employed by legal persons and private persons, and in August this year 698 thousand 319. And that's how much he pays into the pension and health bills, almost 92 thousand less. The health department is burdened with many costs that do not belong to health care: funerals, obituaries, emergency transportation and so on. Management and supervision of the medical treasury are outdated and ineffective. Only clean concessionaires who are online connected to the insurance company are well supervised. If the insurance company and Mr Fakin, as it controls you, were to control health care homes and hospitals, the problems would be significantly less. The system hasn't changed significantly. There's a lot of stuff going on. Rare adjustments and changes, and sometimes the demands of management for better and more rational work and better organisation, are faced with resistance, as this also entails a greater burden on employees and a more efficient human resources policy. Some health profiles are still working under special conditions, although the reasons for this are long gone and the privileges are drawn from the laws of the 1970s. In Europe, such specialties have long been abolished. Something similar applies only in Greece, but we know that it is for these reasons that we are all saving it. In health care it is similar to in other systems, which we have never really reorganised and draw bad practices from the previous country. Some are overburdened and burned, while others are underworked, are undereffective, are not rational at material costs, are irresponsible and act with common funds as bad masters, quite differently than they would have done if they had decided on their own money. And to those who burn, it seems more foolish to try as hard as a fellow worker or even to have more because of special conditions and on-calls. We regret that no public network has yet been adopted or criteria and regulations adopted to analyse and effectively address the weaknesses of the system have been adopted. But not everything is in the law. Problems and solutions begin and end in people, in individuals in the system, in those responsible, who therefore have higher wages. Therefore, the permanent excuses for failing legislation are not appropriate because better organisation of division of labour, cooperation in the collective cannot regulate and prescribe any law. False solidarity between profiles working under special conditions also reduces funds for those who are silent in the event of such irregularities and inequalities. What does the legislation have to do with 200 young doctors in the Employment Institute, while 300 doctors who have been employed for the past 15 years meet the conditions for retirement. Next year it'll be 85. How do their superiors justify this? What's the logic here? The training of an individual doctor is combined with the cost of specialisation between €400 and €450 000. As a country, we have invested so much in these young people who are going abroad because of this situation. But we have 200 foreign doctors working for us. Who hired them? We, the politicians who are on call to blame for everything, certainly not. The Secretary of State told the Health Committee that the system's reserves are not what was said to be funny. I've listed some of them myself, and every day, patients can see them in the infirmary and the exams. The only problem is whether we want to see them and use them or not. The parliamentary group has regular meetings with voters on the ground, by region, we often also visit health institutions. In some, they have done a great deal in the field of organization, work control, work sharing, where they have not yet done so, but they are waiting for the money to flow and the country to deal with the losses. That is why we do not support the law in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u10	Your Honor, a very nice greeting. Let me introductoryly express, like my colleague, my disagreement with the Committee's unbiased report. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which is before us, can be broken down into three sets. The first brings the implementation of the EU Directive on the exercise of rights on cross-border healthcare, which provides for the eligibility and reimbursement of costs to insured persons who choose to receive treatment in another EU Member State. The amount of reimbursement will be equal to the average price of the same services in Slovenia. The second set of the novel brings the extension of the contribution base to copyright, business contracts, meetings, awards and increases in the contribution rates of certain categories of insured persons who, under the currently applicable provisions, pay for the same amount of entitlements in a health treasury significantly less than the regular category of employees. The ratio between the highest and lowest payments for the same level of rights is one to ten. There are therefore two reasons for making changes: the elimination of disproportionates in the payment of contributions to compulsory insurance and thus increasing the solidarity and fairness of the system, as well as the improvement of the financial situation in health care, as 36 million more funds will flow into the health account. Regrettably, this novelty still does not follow the principle of each income is considered, so even after the adoption of this law, dividends, rents and interest will not be included in the basis for the payment of the contribution. Since we're talking about the intervention law, he ordered and made only some changes. We are at the beginning of the journey, but it is important to know that the path we are walking is the right one. We need a comprehensive overhaul of the health insurance system, so we are pleased that the Health Committee, on a proposal from the SD Group, unanimously adopted a decision calling on the Ministry of Health to draft a new Health Insurance Act by the end of March and to submit it to Parliament by the end of the year. The third but not least important part of the law relates to the regulation of the distribution of profits generated by private insurance undertakings in the form of supplementary health insurance. In Article 62, paragraph 4, of the Health Insurance Act, the so-called Bručan Act provides that insurance undertakings must provide for half of the profits generated by supplementary insurance for the same insurance. Since 2009, the European Commission has been leading a procedure against Slovenia, as this provision is intended to violate the free movement of capital in the European Union. Since the Slovenian Government has unfortunately failed to convince the Commission that supplementary health insurance is not a market insurance, since these insurance companies have no effect on the price, nor on the quality of health services, and that supplementary insurance is an integral part of the public health care system and is in the public interest, the intervention law in Article 12 in response to a reminder from the European Commission would delete the contested provision, otherwise, according to government assurances, risk continuing proceedings against the State and possibly paying penalties. Therefore, once again with additional arguments, the question of the eligibility of a further existence of supplementary health insurance, from which only private insurance companies benefit. We have made great efforts on the part of the Social Democrats to obtain support from the proposal to prevent insurance companies carrying out supplementary health insurance in order to have the money already collected from half the profits from 2006 to 30. This year's 9th. 30 million euros have been raised. On the basis of the amendment adopted to Article 18, these insurance undertakings will have to spend the funds collected in full for supplementary insurance by 30 June 2014 at the latest. The proposal was first adopted by the coalition and was supported by opposition members without a vote. With the amendments we have adopted on the Committee, the Social Democrats believe that the law is appropriate and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Like all difficult and difficult stories, this health care has a very long beard and, of course, a good and bad salary. Since good stories are not told enough from this town, I'll start with these. In the Citizen's List, we are convinced that in Slovenia we have high-level healthcare, that our health care is quality and accessible to all people, that we have top health professionals who can successfully follow rapid development in the field of treatment, in some areas even take on a pioneering role. And of course, we all want to keep that level if we don't keep it up. All of this must not be an excuse or a silence to overlook the many facts that suggest that our health system needs serious reconstruction if we are to maintain what we have today. We have also written in the Coalition Treaty in March, inter alia, that we will draw up a plan to regulate the health financing system, which will reduce unnecessary expenditure on medical bills and modernise the existing system of cost accounting in health care. We therefore rightly expected that, as the first proposal by the Ministry, we would get a proposal for a thorough health reform that would address the problems and causes that have brought the health treasury into red numbers. The Ministry made a different decision and first drafted an intervention law containing certain necessary measures only to improve the financial situation in the health sector. Of course, such an approach was unacceptable for the Citizens' List, so in the spring we made specific comments and warned that half solutions were not acceptable for us. Even more so because the original proposals went in the direction of additional burden on the active population. When the Civil War drew attention to the proposed solutions, which, according to our assessment, were half-right, and did not eliminate discrimination among the debtors, we only received low blows in the sense that we are causing harm to the Slovenian patient and that the richer will be treated at the expense of the poorer. What does not kill strengthens could be the shortest summary or lesson of this story about the intervention law for the National Gazette. We don't close our eyes in front of a hole in the health department. We agree with the Ministry that it is necessary to begin immediately with the resolution of our health system and that disproportionateity in the payment of contributions between the existing categories of beneficiaries should be addressed. In the process of coordination, we have drawn up a proposal that is before us today, which is a reasonable compromise, also acceptable to the National Gazette. A proposal with which all stakeholders are equally dissatisfied. It is important that the last proposal significantly reduces the burden on the active part of the population and the economy, that the contribution rate is extended to other income from work that has not been contributed so far, and that we have not caused new imbalances and new discrimination in the existing categories of debtors. The proposal also regulates cross-border healthcare and thus the transposition of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, while maintaining for patients the same level of rights and the level of health services charged as are applicable to the same services at home. We also abolish paragraph 4 of the second paragraph of Article 62 of the Act, which obliges insurance undertakings to devote half of the positive result to the implementation of supplementary insurance, clearly stipulating that the existing reserves under this Title should be used by 30 June 2014 only for supplementary health insurance, i.e. for insurers, as the money collected is charged to the health premium raiser. At the same time, the Ministry and the Coalition undertook to prepare by March of the following year a comprehensive overhaul of health insurance and healthcare activities, which is also crucial for the National Charter. To conclude, this proposal, together with the coalition amendments, is acceptable and will also be supported for the National List, which operates nationally both in the previous and in the current government. However, we will continue to insist on rebuilding public health care in order to ensure that health services are paid from the public health treasury and operators will be evaluated according to their expertise, quality, patient satisfaction and professional efficiency. I am convinced that this coalition can also accept health reform. Where there is will, there is always a way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have repeatedly expressed our opposition that such an important law, which interferes with the amount of contributions and the dosage of rights on the basis of contributions, laws that change many articles and add new content are adopted following an emergency procedure, so to speak, overnight. When it comes to deciding the highest values on scales of universal and personal values, such as human health and life, no rush is acceptable, as it can cause irreparable harm. The new Health and Health Insurance Act will not solve the biggest problem. This is sufficient funding for health care, will not bring cash stabilisation, will not provide additional doctors needed, nor will it reduce waiting periods. However, due to incomplete solutions, the criminal provisions that are most burdensome for those who do not have an increase in contributions that can be brought over the margins of capacity, students, unemployed, self-employed, insufficient justification for changes and complementing can cause enormous harm. As a result, such a law can even have a long-term impact on the reduction of inflows, rather than achieving the purpose for which the government has brought it into the process. This is an increase in cash flows. The law increases contributions to young, unemployed, students, self-employed people, while the coalition has decided that dividends and rents will not be a source of contribution in the future. It is unacceptable that an arbitrary decision is taken to increase the base and contribution for the purpose of charging cash. And it is even more unacceptable that cashiers are charged primarily at the expense of those who do not have strong lobbying or strong capital backgrounds to be able to influence their position. Such a way will not save the medical treasury, but it will cause many injustices and injustices. The law also implements the cross-border health directive adopted in April 2011 with the deadline for implementation on 25 October. It would be expected to introduce legislation in time for such important implementation, as all those responsible must prepare in time for new procedures and commitments, and in particular patients have the right to timely news. Under the Directive, the law limits, inter alia, rights in cross-border healthcare when accompanying children. The representative of the Government, however, ensured that the remaining rights concerning children were the same, while the provisions and explanations to the law were different. Parents also point to the injustice and inadmissibility of not accepting the costs of accompanying a child, and the Ombudsman also points out. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have also tabled an amendment on the Committee to delete the provision whereby, at the new cost of compulsory health insurance for foreigners who have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and who meet the conditions for financial social assistance, they will pay the municipalities after the new payment. They are already facing major difficulties in the implementation of legal obligations already laid down in the field of pre-school education, social and infrastructure. We also drew attention to the provision on the collection of personal data by the Health Insurance Office, such as health and diagnosis. This provision seems to us to be controversial in terms of interference with privacy and human rights. We believe that, in order to monitor the use of funds and cost management arrangements, we should choose a way that is less affecting human privacy. Unfortunately, both amendments on the committee were rejected. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that at a time when there is a shortage of money in the health sector and when contributions are increasing without increasing rights, it is unacceptable to think that reserves from the positive outcome of supplementary insurance are transferred from the profit margin of the Reserve to the Capital Reserve item and thus to open up the possibility that these funds are used for the purpose of sharing profits, not for the purposes of patients. The Health Committee has adopted an amendment to the coalition to address the problem of the sharing of benefits from supplementary insurance by June 2014, with the promise that by then a new law and health reform will be adopted. The government and the competent minister have not proposed comprehensive and systematic solutions with the amendment of the law to stabilise the health treasury and to address the health system's weaknesses, which invariably increases the gap in the health treasury. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the only necessary systemic solutions to health care would certainly bring in a short time to cover loss and even savings. We have tabled amendments to the procedure and we will decide in the parliamentary group on the basis of the debate and amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with coworkers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today we are finally adopting such a necessary intervention health law that will bring at least some additional money to our public health care. The fact is that Slovenian public health is still not promised a bright time. With increasing unemployment in the health treasury, less and less money is flowing, which means that the solidarity of the health system is becoming increasingly important. However, in order to achieve this, all those who receive any income on the basis of employment or activity must contribute to their health-care balance. That is why, according to the assessment of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, this proposal of the novel is the beginning of the reduction of the differences in the payment of contributions to health insurance.We believe that independent entrepreneurs are angry because they will increase their contribution to compulsory health insurance, but we must remind them that despite the increased contribution to espionage, they still bear the highest burden of paying for medical bills on a regular basis, who cannot choose for themselves how much they will pay for medical bills. Both benefit from the same quality of health care, regardless of how much they contribute to health care for basic health insurance. This novelty will, according to our assessment, reduce at least a little the possibility of further higher prices of health services for providers, i.e. hospitals, health homes and so on, as we welcome in the DeSUS Group. Further lowering prices to the extent that has taken place in recent years, according to our assessment, Slovenian health care would not endure and would result in serious obstacles to the functioning of public health. Of course, we cannot go beyond one of the most exciting changes in this proposal of the novel. This is about the proposed changes in the way in which the surpluses of voluntary insurance companies received from the payments of additional health insurance are paid. This form of insurance is specific to our country, since it is essentially a compulsory quasi optional supplementary insurance. If the insured person does not pay for additional insurance, he must pay for virtually all the health care he receives. The European Commission simply does not want to understand this, since since 2007 we have been plagued by punishment by the provision that insurance companies have to return money from supplementary insurance to the public health treasury, we are in breach of the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union concerning the prohibition of the free movement of capital. In addition, they forget that it is the money of the insured who must return to the public health treasury as it covers public health services. And we will not depart from this Member and Members of the DeSUS Group. That is why we have also supported the amendment to Article 18 of the novel proposal, which allows insurance money to be returned to the public health treasury. This amendment has reformulated the provisions of Article 18 in order to ensure that the funds which have been fully used for supplementary health insurance by 30 June 2014 at the latest, in accordance with the fourth point of Article 62 of the current law, are fully used for supplementary health insurance, when amendments to the law are supposed to have been adopted to abolish supplementary health insurance. In the DeSUS Group, we wish and hope that in this mandate we will gain sufficient understanding and wisdom to finally end additional health insurance, because this system has been fully born in our country and is only for the benefit of private health insurance companies. In fact, it is the quasi private insurance in the worst form since the prices of services are created by the state, the prices of medicines are negotiated by the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, and private insurance companies are taking mainly commission, and this is as high for the rich as for the poor. Finally, let me reiterate that Members and Members of the Parliament of the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired People's Party will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you. Dear Mr President, the distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues are warmly greeted! Health is an invaluable value which is highest for citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija, the proposed amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act can be translated into a word: several contributions less rights. Health legislation needs to be carefully, thoroughly, wisely recast. In Nova Slovenija we estimate that the health system is serious and that emergency resuscitation is needed if I express myself in the health jargon. The resuscitation proposed in the intervention law by increasing the rates of contribution, as well as their extension to all forms of work, is inadequate. The proposed amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act is only an inadequate cosmetic correction that will only prolong the agony of public health care providers and further burden the affected population with contributions. The bill introduces an even greater inequality among citizens, by increasing contributions to those who have lost their jobs or who are willing to keep their jobs, many times to adopt non-human working conditions, which consequently also affects health. In New Slovenia, we are concerned about how the social state is increasingly disappearing from the eyes. The government only increases taxes and collects them for those who are in poverty or on its extreme edge. We must be very concerned that 20% of Slovenians are poor or at the threshold of poverty. We wonder what this increase and expansion of health care contributions means. The answer is only one simple citizens, who are in a very difficult financial situation, will be further affected. In addition, the exclusion of funeral and post-mortgage from compulsory insurance, which will then only be a social security benefit linked to a protective allowance. What about that group of pensioners who have resigned from the protective allowance, who have a very low pension and will be deprived of these rights as a result of this change? Why not include those petitioners who live well on high rents and dividends among the category of debtors or, for example, would not require standards and standards from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, since otherwise no additional measure can be implemented and fair to all insurers. There are reserves in the health department, but that government's got them all wrong. How can it cost the same medicine in Slovenia several times more than in neighbouring Austria to do public procurement in the construction of the Oncology Institute and not even talk about it and the interest lobby with profits is at the expense of the public health treasury in money and we are left with an increasingly poor health system. For the entire healthcare system, much less resources would be needed and waiting periods and limits on the number of health services would not be needed. In order to address the health issue in an integrated manner, we must first know how much money we have for this in view of the current system of collection of contributions and how much we are willing to contribute from our own pocket or to protect and care for all those who do not have the money to provide additional insurance. With regard to the transposition of the cross-border movement directive, however, the view is quite simple. It is essential that the regulator, the Ministry of Health, adopt such measures as to ensure that operators in Slovenia are not in a subordinate position compared to those abroad. When we get sick on our own, every waiting room is too long for us. It has been shown that, with each day of waiting, the cost of recovery increases exponentially. The current system for arranging the health services programme is such that the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the contractor agree on the programme paid by the institution, but does not include the needs of the insured. And that's why there are waiting periods. Members of New Slovenia will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's probably hard to add something innovative to these views. In established practice, there is a position to adopt the law, but the opposition is against it. And if the roles were reversed, it would be similar. However, I might point to another problem in this regard. See, the most common argument is that the health system for its functioning does not have money in connection with this law. Another argument from the government and the indirect position is that the budget no longer withstands additional burdens. That's what he's holding. We all know that. The budget no longer withstands additional burdens, and the health system, as it is, needs more money. And now we are faced with a dilemma, the simplest, to raise our contribution rates and more money will come. Do you know what kind of shortcut this is? Let's ask ourselves another question. The medical system doesn't have money. The budget can't carry any extra burdens, and it doesn't have any money. Who else has money in this country? The answer is in the palm of the hand and the marks of the law, those who work, the worker, the craftsman, the entrepreneur, are those who do not have the power to defend themselves. And let's load them up. That's a great solution. This is the best solution possible. And honest congratulations for such a good solution. They wrote in Finance: "Taxes can be raised by any fool." I personally think we should go a different way. Look, we've been talking about so-called structural reforms for years and years. And this is once again just one circuit to the fact that structural reforms within individual health sectors, the state administration, the public sector must be achieved. We need structural reforms. I'll be very specific. I'll send it to you in a short time, not to some, because I can see that you're getting worse, data in the health system, how many people have wages, net wages twice as high as the Prime Minister's. The subject needs to be taken. These are structural reforms. Wages that are more than 1 : 5 in a crisis ratio are harmful are unfair. This is where it needs to start. Furthermore, we have directors of health homes who are directors of the public service, have espies and are still working extra. Do you know what kind of looting this is? These are structural reforms. Let us make order, balance public finances, to actually take away those who have. For the state in which we are, for the state of public finances, the state of the ability to create added value and gross social product are getting too much. And it's an unfair division. This is not normal for us to be burdened by people who already have very low incomes. There is data and I understand the minister – what else should he do? There is no way to make any structural reforms, because the coalition does not hear this ear and let us raise the contribution rates. Wrong solution. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u21	Mag. Ivan Vogrin, I must admit that you can really thank us, because you have discussed general matters, the whole law, not the amendment, not Article 5. I did not want to interrupt you because you have five minutes at your disposal in this debate, but I would point out that we are actually at Article 5 and, among other things, Article 5 is talking about the right to treatment abroad. All those who will continue to debate will have to discuss Article 5 and the amendments by Article 5 but not hold a general debate. The next word is Mrs Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have tabled an amendment proposing the deletion of the fifth and eighth indents of Article 44(3). In order to delete the fifth indent, we propose deleting a provision providing that an insured person, in the case of treatment in another Member State of the European Union, is not entitled to reimbursement of the costs for the accommodation of one of the parents in a healthcare institution with a sick child up to the age of the child, including five years. By deleting the eighth indent, we delete provisions which provide that the insured person is not entitled to reimbursement of travel and escort costs. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is unacceptable that the costs of accompanying a child for treatment abroad should be borne by insured persons themselves, that is, parents when treatment is not possible in our country. It is not acceptable for insurers to be granted different rights only according to the location where the health service is provided, especially when it comes to children. The Ombudsman and the Council of State also pointed to the contention of the proposed regime. Among other things, the Ombudsman said: "The Varuu warns that without a reasonable reason you determine the rights of children and their parents only differently on the basis of the places where health services will be provided. The treatment of children abroad should be subject to the same rules as for treatment in the country, because the child’s needs do not change in any way when he crosses the state border." It is therefore unreasonable to provide a provision that does not allow young children under five years of age to be treated abroad to accompany parents who, while clearly belong to them in Slovenia. The Council of State notes in its opinion: "The proposed regulation will indirectly prevent children from enjoying the rights arising from the directive, since a child will not be able to go abroad without the assistance of parents and their cohabitation if the parents or his or her companion are unable to pay their own travel costs, accompanying costs and co-existence in the healthcare institution. In the Slovenian People's Party we are aware that in the health treasury we also have to cut costs, but please do not do this at the expense of the children.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you. The next one has the word Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. President, I will tell you immediately that I will also say a few things in general, because we are taking money from this amendment for children's escorts, and we need to tell you why there are no funds in health and what is the problem. If I was being monitored by the health system, as I said, as the insurance company controls pure concessionaires, then we wouldn't have any problems. I'm sure there's a lot of spares in health care. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u25	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, allow me, regardless of your introductory announcement, to discuss everything, fully [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u26	No, I'm not going to discuss everything, I'm just going to tell you why we don't have the money and why we have to accept such an amendment so we can get the money back for the children's escort.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u27	Well, since I wanted to remind you of this, you have to stick to Article 5 and the amendment to this article and then there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u28	If we were to monitor how and where our money is running out and adapt to the situation when things happen, for example, a whole bunch of things are in health care, which a lot of people have known for years and years, demographic changes and so on, and so on, we have not reorganised any paediatric clinics. But we have a problem because we don't have pedophiles because we don't have anywhere to put kids. Also in this amendment, we talk about children whether they will have a right or not, that is, the right to be with them abroad when they leave, their parents. We're talking about kids by the age of 18. When someone goes abroad because of a serious illness, if I just say the case, say a lung transplant, which we don't do in Slovenia, which is why they have to go to Vienna, they have to have a mother with them because they have to decide what doctors are going to do every day or hours. He has to make different decisions all the time. This is what we now have in the rules of procedure. Mr. Fakin told the board it was arranged and it was running. It's running, but we're putting a whole bunch of stuff in and out of law now. That's not it. That's what's left of the book. The regulation, as you know, is a sub-legislative act, we will not decide on it in the National Assembly, but in cooperation with the insurance company and the Ministry, the regulation may be amended, almost certainly will be changed due to changes in the law, and this can happen no longer in the regulation. That is why we have proposed an amendment and we repeat it this time. Like I said, a parent has to be with a kid like that. He decides on important treatment decisions all the time; he cannot decide for himself because he is not of age. Moreover, those who are doctors know that parental support in such severe diseases is essential to healing, to encourage a child to care for a child when he is in a foreign environment and is also sick. It is estimated that it is again being saved in the most vulnerable groups that are not to blame for needing treatment abroad. On the other hand, as I said, huge sums are lost in the health system. That is why I will also support the amendment that we tabled in the SDS with New Slovenia. As long as we just add new money, we don’t find out where millions are draining away — we can read in newspapers every day about some untransparent spending. Doctors are now coming forward, various initiatives are being organized precisely because they can no longer see where the internal reserves are, how unevenly they order, how they spend on medical equipment. Some have a huge problem with concessionaires, but have you heard that a concessionaire has overpaid a dental chair three times? No way, because he bought it with his money because he took a 20-year loan for it and he's gonna pay it off for 20 years. All you have to do is keep an eye on things. And if we control them well, we're not going to get the things that are happening to us. So we're wondering how this can happen to us at the Oncology Institute, how it happens to us at the Clinical Center, how we fix the water supply every two years, how someone earned a lot of money when they were working at the Oncology Institute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u29	Mrs. Jeraj, this really has nothing to do with this amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u30	I told you, see if we're saving up here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u31	So I have to warn you another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u32	But then I get what? Do I have to leave the gym? Thanks for the heads-up. See, if the rules in paragraph 1 are said to save an insured person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years, the insurance company will cover the costs of travelling during treatment, or the person accompanying that child, so little that it is less than a drop into the sea in all of the irregularities I have been talking about. That's why I'm going to support this amendment, and I suggest you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 5 and the amendment? I invite you to report for discussion. Mrs. Leila Hercegovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of the House, the distinguished Minister with the team! Article 5 is a very special article because we are all sensitive to it – it speaks of the treatment of children abroad. Indeed, there were some things that were unclear, which led to a great misunderstanding of this article. This article does not take away any child who goes abroad for treatment because we have already had this in our country’s marriage well arranged. For example, if a child has a disease that cannot be treated in the Republic of Slovenia, he receives the approval of the Health Insurance Institute, he receives a travel authorisation and normally goes abroad for treatment and all costs are paid. There's a hole here that gives you a double understanding. Part is paid from compulsory health insurance, that's the biggest part. A small part is paid from supplementary health insurance. This article 23, once the Health Insurance Act has been reformed, should be noted that those 10% will go to basic health insurance. I am warning everyone, including the Ministry of Health and Health Insurance, that we do not make a mistake here in the future. So that 10% remains open as will be regulated in the new law. Otherwise, Article 5 does not take anything from any child. However, as far as special operations are concerned, regardless of whether we, for example, have certain things arranged and if we do not have this fully arranged to be sufficient for a particular disease or operation, the patient has the right to go with the approval of the Health Insurance Institute and the reimbursement of expenses. It gets stuck if one of the parents wants to have a child abroad, and we in the Republic of Slovenia have health clinics and experts who treat certain diseases. Of course, in such cases, travel costs cannot be paid or accompanied. Because there's no need for such a child to go abroad. Of course, everyone has the right under the 2011 EU Directive to go abroad with his child, but he does not have the right to reimburse costs for all things. So for what we do not work in Slovenia, operations and special diseases, if the treatment is exhausted in the Republic of Slovenia and further treatment is needed and we expect the treatment of this disease, it has the right with full powers to accompany and pay costs. I don't think there's much of a dilemma here. We can think in different ways. However, I would not read the Ministry of Health’s responses on the working body, nor would I read the Director of the Health Insurance Office, which gives a clear explanation of how and what is the case with Article 5. I think Article 5 is settled and we can accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Borut Ambrožič has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you with your word, chairman. My colleague Hercegovac actually summed up what I wanted to say myself. Article 5, I support such an arrangement. Of course, in practice, this is best known by those who, as I said yesterday in a report by the Ombudsman, face the daily problems of patients on the ground, as a result of parents who, as guardians, exercise the rights of their juvenile children. In practice, of course, this is not easy many times. Therefore, the representatives of the patient's rights, and also all those exercising these rights, would in many cases want a more humane relationship from the health insurance company or their professional services, to which applications will be made after treatment abroad and related services. In other words, I believe that the implementation or introduction of this Directive into our Slovenian legislation is a link with other European legislation in this field and as a right on paper, so we cannot talk about the violation of these rights because they remain in fact the same but uniform. That's why I'm going to support the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you, too. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. It is perfectly logical that I will support the amendment to Article 5 because we have signed it. I would like to see the dictions, because that was our intention, in this article, to be more effective. Let me tell you exactly what the explanation of our amendment is. Article 135 of the Compulsory Health Insurance Rules provides that the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia fully reimburses the costs of escorting children up to the age of 18 years if in Slovenia all treatment options are exhausted in cases where the waiting period is exceeded. With this proposed amendment, we want the regulation of this right to be passed on to the legal level and will no longer be left to amend the mandatory health insurance rules every time. That's what this is about. This is about raising the level of determination of this segment. It is said that this decision will no longer be left to the modification of the mandatory health insurance rules, which are laid down by the Assembly of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, but not by Parliament. That is why we in our parliamentary group, as well as our colleagues in the SDS, believe that the area of reimbursement needs to be regulated uniformly in the law, not only in part, as is now proposed. However, in this debate, which has just begun, I have listened carefully to the views of the parliamentary groups, and this time, as always, I am glad to find that we are sitting on different shores, if I may say so, of these parliamentary arenas, but that we have some common points. And these are essential and should be built on these essential points. I am sure that the Minister has already heard what those essential common points are. I listened attentively to the position of the Group of Social Democrats and my colleague, Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič, is very well aware of this area. And not just between the lines, it was directly heard, it was felt that, Mr Minister, but on supplementary health insurance, read the mandatory, something must be done. We have a problem here, and let's go get it, and let's get rid of the supplementary health insurance. We're kind of catching flies now, and the elephant stays. It is true that you will probably refer to the directives of the European Union, but we have this thing somehow specifically solved in Slovenia, and that there will be no mistake, I advocate that more solidarity and reciprocity remain in this healthcare system. This way to look for money, we don't even know if it will be enough, but in this way, to burden natural persons who are not insured, as a result of the community, we stifle the economy again instead of developing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u39	Mr. Horvath, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u40	The economy that will be through our contributions [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u41	I have to warn you, we're here. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u42	diaphragm [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u43	Article 5 [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u44	more in the health register. [[...]] It is true, Mr President, that I apologize to you and my colleagues, but after my previous practice, or only 6 years of practice, you have a longer one, it is always so that we Members in this Chamber may, however, have said something in general when dealing with Article 1 or the first one discussed. Am I wrong?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u45	Se, se. We're at Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u46	Okay, if I'm wrong, I apologize and make a dot here. I am pleased, however, that we have some common points and that we should build on these points to have the Ministry of Health, not the Ministry of Insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you, too. The following is Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. I am pleased that colleagues from the coalition, who also know this problem in practice, have previously announced and have clearly and unequivocally explained what this point is about. I do not want it to turn out as it did from the first discussions to hear that this coalition or this government does not care about children or that we are saving on the treatment of children. I deny it. We don't do that with any interference from this health system. However, as Mrs Hercegovac mentioned earlier, I would like to read what Mr Fakin himself said or just briefly summed up. So we are already paying all those parents who are exhausting all treatment options for their children in Slovenia, so we will reimburse them all. However, we must not forget that this directive also allows for cross-border treatment for outpatient and specialist checks. And the system is a little bit different there, so we have to look at this amendment or this point a little bit wider. Once again, the level of rights for patients has not changed, and it was essential for me that I, like the amendment, will be supported by the Committee, and we have now coordinated it accordingly, following the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. So we don't save on the treatment of children.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you. Next one has the word Darko Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposed amendment is due to misunderstanding, ignorance as you wish, so this is the controversy. Otherwise, I don't understand why, because we made it clear on the parent's working body. All rights with regard to transport and co-operation remain. Here are the health insurance regulations and EU regulations. It is not that simple to break EU regulations. If your black scenario, which you are talking about, had already taken place, individuals would have been brought before the European Court of Justice and should have returned that money later. The question is, why isn't that in marriage? Why, then, do we defend ourselves if this is all true, which is said to be not a violation of justice? One is if there are such rights in the law, and the other is if they are in the rules. It is necessary for the Commission to decide on a case-by-case basis on a number of occasions. And if you've got a rule, there's some room for manoeuvre, but if it's in law, there's a lot less room for this maneuver. Let me explain to you on the case. This Directive may also allow cross-border healthcare, something that is not necessary for a child, an operation that can in principle be carried out here. And it is also possible that the Commission will approve because, after all, this directive wants to. But in this case, transport costs are not justified because they are purely on their own. But if that were the law, we should be. And there's another case. If such an amendment had been tabled as you proposed, there would be no requirement for the granting of treatment abroad for outpatient interventions, in which case travel costs would represent the practical payment of a trip abroad for a small matter which could now be covered by this Directive. That would be some kind of protection in the law on stock, for the front. In case there's ever any money running out and the health insurance policy changed. So they'd give me some protection in my marriage. However, it is simply that an individual decision is allowed. As I have already said, rules exist and continue to apply at the EU level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you, too. There's still a desire to discuss it. Replica, Mr. Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to replicate to my respectable colleague Darka Jazbec, Dr. medicine, because I did not blame him for looking directly at the debaters so far, or perhaps directly at me, although he did not mention to me that he somehow accused us of discussing in the sense of not knowing that we were strangers. You don't need any knowledge here, you just have to read why we tabled these amendments. We have tabled it to transpose the provisions of the Regulation adopted by the ZZZS Assembly into law. Which is more exact, or what regulation has a greater weight? Probably a law passed by Parliament. And I didn't expect that from you, Comrade Darko Jazbec, a doctor of medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? There is still interest and I invite you to report for discussion. The word has Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I would expect you, the chairman, to expect that, given that you are very careful that we do not go anywhere and talk only about the amendment, to warn our colleagues that they are insulting us, that we do not understand and that we want to enforce something that they understand does not belong to the law. For all those of you who have trouble going on a lung transplant to Vienna on a trip, I'll read you first what we're changing. 44.a. says so, I speak first, second paragraph, and then for the third paragraph we further propose: "The protected person has the right to review, investigate or treat abroad or to reimburse the costs of these services if the treatment options are exhausted in the Republic of Slovenia, and the examination, investigation or treatment abroad is justified to expect recovery or improvement or to prevent further deterioration of the health status." Article 44a, second paragraph: "The cost of health services referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be reimbursed to the insured person at the cost of the actual costs of such services in the country in which they were established." It's in the marriage now. And we propose the third paragraph: "If the right referred to in the first paragraph of this Article" means that when all the possibilities are exhausted in Slovenia, "the insured person who has not yet reached the age of eighteen has the right to accompany on a journey, during treatment, examination or investigation." So, who doesn't understand now? In the first paragraph, it says that someone can go abroad if he has exhausted all possibilities in Slovenia and in this case these costs will be reimbursed. Accompanying persons will be reimbursed only if this insured person has exhausted all possibilities in Slovenia. Can I read it to you again or can't we all read it together? Article 44a clearly states that it is only those who will exhaust opportunities in Slovenia. We have patients who need, as I have already mentioned, lung transplantation or something we don't do in Slovenia, so they have to go to Vienna. And if there's a minor there, the parent must have it arranged as an escort. You say it's in the book. That's right. But who guarantees that this will remain in the rulebook? Then why do we settle all the other payments in marriage? And let's put this in the rules of procedure, because we have to, because that's what the directive says. And then why do we take out one category here, so escort? Someone here wants to save something. I don't understand you, it's just that there aren't so many cases, I think Mr Fakin said, and I don't know what the costs are, but he didn't exactly tell us on the committee what the costs were so far. I also said myself that this is in fact now regulated in the Rules of Procedure and that it is being implemented. However, we are now adopting a law where we do not put it in, which means that tomorrow, when the regulation changes, it may no longer be implemented in this way. That's all we've got. We propose that this amendment be adopted, which very clearly states that only if treatment in Slovenia for that disease or that treatment is no longer available. Let's read it. I have to say that you didn't convince me and I regret that we have to bet on insults here. I don't want to tell anyone that he doesn't understand what you are to us, and I've now tried to prove to you what it really says and what we're really proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you. Let me just explain, I do not want to interrupt discussions concerning the content itself. The discussions are intended to explain this content. And if it has occurred that someone thinks he does not understand the content, it seems to me that the debate is absolutely necessary. Therefore, I will not interrupt the debate in this respect. Do you have a discussion or a replica, Mrs. Hercegovac?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u56	Once in the National Assembly, one positive replica. If the patient receives approval from the Department of Health Insurance to go abroad, he will also receive reimbursement of expenses by the age of 18. So that doesn't prejudge that, but prejudges that if they don't get the approval, they won't get the refund. So here is really understanding differently, but surely the reimbursement will be given to anyone who will have the approval of the Health Insurance Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you. Dr. Gorenak, just to be clear, there's no need for anyone named by name to get a chance to replicate. If he was not properly understood, then I will give him the opportunity to explain it further through the replica. That's why Mrs. Hercegovac was given the opportunity to replicate. And I give the word "magic." Barbara Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you so much for the president's words. Look, believe me, the coalition wouldn't support the bill either, at least in Positive Slovenia, no, we talked about it if they were holding statements coming from the opposition. I want and believe here the Director of Health Insurance, the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia, including the Minister or Secretary of State, who has made it very clear on the working body. The directive we adopt in this intervention law is without prejudice to the existing system. And I hope that today, too, the Minister will once again make clear to all of us and, of course, also to those who may have doubts or who are skeptical if the amendment of the law does bring about some unpredictable or negative changes that could affect the health care of our children abroad, of course, linked to the cost of escorting. If you allow me, I will try not to speak like that in general, to read very clearly the position given specifically on this topic, which came from the Ministry. "This Directive on the exercise of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, on the other hand, does not impose on each Member State the obligation to pay any other costs than the costs of health services. Article 7, paragraph 4, gives the Member State of health insurance only the possibility to determine the reimbursement of other related costs, such as accommodation, travel or additional costs of disabled persons, which could be incurred due to one or more disability where the cross-border protection is granted to a disabled person...... and so on, that I do not read everything. The existing regulation, as we have and are not amending it with the amendment of the law, but at this point in time the proposed law sets out all the rights you have spoken about. And once again, the intervention law does not interfere with any right. But it is true that if we accepted your amendment, I believe that the Priories have enacted some right, which I believe is not necessarily always, in any case, really the one that is necessary. I believe that we would extend the powers imposed by the directive on us by unnecessary means. For anyone granted by a health insurance company has the opportunity to receive reimbursement in cases of emergency or for which there is no equivalent treatment in our country. If I say home or so, we'll all understand. Minister, I am asking you to intervene once again, and in particular to those most affected by this amendment, to clarify what we are doing with the intervention law, specifically in the context of Article 5, and in which rights we are infringing or without prejudice. Once again, if Article 5 were to lower the standard and rights of children to treatment, believe me, in Positive Slovenia such a law would not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you. Minister, you want a word? Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the fact is that in no case do we interfere with the right of children to accompany this proposal, which is ready. Even the opposite. I would not repeat everything that has been said by the coalition Members in particular at this time, Members, that the law provides for this and that the possibility of reimbursement of the costs of accompanying children is not being violated in this part. On the contrary, we raise this right with these proposals from the Regulation to the legal level, while the precise definition will still require a rule. And the rules, even if any concern has been expressed in this direction, cannot be accepted by the ZZZ itself without the Minister's consent. It is said that there was no intention in any case of interfering in this, and I really do not see any argument for adopting the amendment in the manner proposed. Even vice versa, in our proposals and in our legislation it is written down, not only until the cost of travelling to the European Community has been reimbursed, but we, through the existing arrangement, are also reimbursed for travel expenses for treatment in the United States or, I don't know, at which end of the world. It is true, however, that the directive itself refers only to the reimbursement of costs and only to the reimbursement of costs, but is therefore in force as well as to what is in our legislation. That is why I think this extensive debate about something that exists, that is written down and that no one is going down, and we are even basically guaranteeing this right at the marital level. Therefore, it seems to me that we obviously do not understand what we are talking about. Once again, I say that I will not speak for too long, once again, I assure you that we are not interfering with any children's rights, nor would I by any chance allow it or suggest any similar solutions. However, whether it is a large expense in a health treasury or a small expense. We wouldn't even discuss that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u62	Yeah. My colleague, Žgajner Tavš, said we wouldn't extend powers that aren't necessary, and the minister says it's already in there. I'm saying we're not spreading this because it already exists. We all agree with this that this is already stipulated in the rules. But look, the rules also set out what we now have in paragraphs 44a and 44b. We passed the first paragraph of Article 135 of the rules when the treatment options are exhausted. We've moved that to 44th. The second paragraph of Article 135, which exceeded the allowable waiting period, was transferred to Article 44b. However, we did not transfer the right of escort to the law, which is the third paragraph of Article 135. Now the minister says it's in there. Tell me where it says it. I don't see it. Therefore, I ask you, Article 44 clearly speaks in the first paragraph, who has the right to be examined when all the options are exhausted here, then who fixes these costs, and the rules include escorts. It's not like that right now. And I can't quite believe it's gonna stay in the rules. It will be possible, but I don't understand this logic, that we are regulating something in the law now, and we say that we are improving the conditions, and we don't want to settle it in the law. Unless there's somewhere else, but then, Minister, please tell me where, because I don't see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you. One more time. We probably can't handle every single case with the law. That is why there are rules or regulations. And there is no way in which anyone can intervene in any other way or arbitrarily in any other way. And I do not understand why this debate is necessary, given that the regime already in force, which is already in force, is why no one is deprived, but it sets out specific cases in which this right can be exercised. And if we want to bring every particular case into law, then we have a problem and we will have a problem in all areas. We all agree with you that it makes sense that this right is. And it actually exists. There's no reason here. I think we're on the same side here. Only you would want it in marriage, and we believe that it is sufficient and that in no way will anyone be deprived if it is in advance in the rules and precisely defined how, in what way, under what conditions. The difference is that you want to step forward and something more that does not belong to marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you. There is still a desire to discuss, so I invite you to report. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much. At first, I did not want to comment on this amendment, but it was precisely the last debate of the Minister that encouraged me to ask him specifically. Tell us what makes the law worse or unacceptable or insufferable if this amendment is adopted. Is there only a reason that one sentence or two more will be written here? If what you say exists now, this right exists, which is defined by the rule of law, I believe it is, but the act of the rule of law is very easy to amend, just like the regulation. You can do this on the government or on the insurance company itself, without getting to know the public and without discussing it in Parliament and without being directly aware of it. Given that this amendment is so generally defined, and I believe that some of the rules may indeed define individual cases, I am sure that this amendment does not make the matter worse. Or because the opposition has proposed it, you oppose it or hide it in the background of some purpose, in a month, two, six months, when money is too small again, the rule will change. Here is the danger that we, with this amendment, want to determine, minimize or prevent in this law. Unfortunately, we cannot believe the good words, because things often happen that then quietly, without the public being informed, even fewer parliaments, change to the detriment of our patients. That's why I don't think there's any reason to oppose this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u67	I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you. Believe me, no one in the coalition would support or restrict these rights, even if they were to suggest this to me. That's the first fact. The second question that you raise as a question is, in my opinion, the question that is very broad is, where is the boundary between the law and the law, in which case there is even the meaning of the sub-laws. We would legally prejudge a number of situations where this may not make sense either. And it's not really necessary. So once again, there are sub-legal acts, there are regulations that allow this to happen, and so far this has been done normally. And we didn't reach into this area either. Therefore, in this part I really see no point in such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u70	I apologize for the third time in the same article, but I will be brief. Where it is stated in Article 5 that cross-border treatment is in cases where all options are exhausted in the Republic of Slovenia, this patient automatically goes to the approval of the Health Insurance Institute. And with approval, it has automatically reimbursed travel expenses. There's absolutely no need for this to stand, but it's automatic. Why is it dangerous to stand? Because then everyone could have felt that the possibilities were exhausted and went abroad on their own. So you'd be costing it. Any parent could, on the basis of what he wanted to do in Austria or France. It is not possible to stand by the law according to the budget of the Treasury. However, there is no obstacle to any patient who needs treatment abroad. In fact, everyone will receive travel expenses when they have the approval of the Health Insurance Institute. It's not even a dilemma here. I understand your dilemmas, so I came by for the third time. Everyone will be reimbursed for travel expenses if the approval is at the Health Insurance Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u72	He has to get approval from the insurance company anyway. And we're not talking about the patient's travel costs, but we're talking about the escort, which is the one that's going with the baby to get a lung transplant in Vienna, not the travel costs. It only states that the costs of the health services referred to in the preceding paragraph, i.e. for the patient, shall be reimbursed at the cost of the actual costs of these services in the country in which they were established. But don't say anything about escorting. That bothers us because we're afraid you'll be with the rulebook when Mr. Fakin finds out that he doesn't have the money, he won't approve of it, and then someone won't be able to go. He'll approve the baby's, normally, lung transplant, but he won't be able to go with her, because he'll say it's not in the marriage, we've changed the rules, and he can sit at his expense. But she's not going on a trip to Vienna to see Vienna, but she's going to sit by the bed. In short, we are not talking about the reimbursement of travel expenses, but we are talking about the reimbursement of the escort.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u73	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you. It's just that sentence. A rule like that with my signature will never go any further than you say I would.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you. Have we exhausted the contents of Article 5 and the amendments? I note that there are no applications for debate, so I am concluding the debate on Article 5. We are moving to the debate on Article 8 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia to Article 8. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report. Mr. Andrej Chuš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u76	President, thank you for your word. The health intervention law also touches young people, namely students after 26 years of age, and young people, who are unfortunately unemployed because of the current economic situation in our country. I have to say somehow that I cannot support some changes to the law that would further burden students and other young people. Otherwise, one amendment has already been voted on the committee, but still after the current or current procedure shows that the monthly contribution to compulsory health insurance would increase from 14.17 euros to 22.7 euros, which would annually bring every student over 26 years and also an unemployed youth from 100 euros in additional payments, i.e. from 170 euros to 270 euros. If we look over our thumb somehow, we can figure out that this is one scholarship. And a policy that says that it is necessary to support young people and that it is necessary to work for them should not work in such a way that it places an additional burden on young people. In Slovenia we currently have about 16,000 students who are over 26 years of age. Here I would like to point out that some of the study programmes following the Bologna reform are also directed so that you can't even study at all before 26 years of age, so I think that students of architecture, vets and medicine are going to have to pay these contributions immediately at the beginning of a deprived position or inequities, because they will have to pay these contributions after the defolk. Not to mention other students of master's or doctoral level. I would also like to add that I find it very interesting that the Minister of Health, as a doctor, will punish exactly future doctors, as their studies last for at least 7 years. At the time of study, when these students thus exceed the age of 26, they have to pay their own health insurance contributions after the current arrangement. As I said earlier, the law will affect over 37,000 young people who, because of the insatiable government of Alenka Bratušek, who beats and strikes across the economy, cannot find employment and will be further punished. Every year we will take 4 million euros from young people, only so that we can better patch up holes and co-finance tycoons, bankers and other privileged people. I will therefore support the amendments of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you. Let me just say that the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party is also substantively the same. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much. What some of my colleagues have already warned, the health system is very complex and needs to be fully addressed in order to understand what we are doing with individual steps. Yesterday we heard a great deal about the justice of the social state. In my opening remarks, I said that the direction taken by the Ministry with the changes made in the intervention law was actually following the greater fairness of the health system. Why? Because in Slovenia we have 21 different groups of insurers who pay different amounts of contributions and enjoy the same rights. Tell me, in which country does this exist? It's some sort of run-of-the-mill situation that we don't claim to have to take them out overnight. On the contrary. It takes time to make the transition sustainable. However, if we want greater equitable health care and genuine solidarity, not false solidarity, then we must seek to extend the insurance base not only to the income from work, but also to other revenues and gradually increase the contribution rates or even them for all categories. In this context, we can also look at the solutions of Article 8. As the coalition also agreed that the initial planned transition might be a bit too harsh, we adopted an amendment to Article 8, which reduced the contribution of self-sustained persons from the original 35% of the last average annual salary to 25%. So we're down 10%. On the other hand, I would like to say that the Health Insurance Act states in paragraph 21 that those nationals who have the status of a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia are not insured by a second title, but in Article 48, they shall ensure that the insurance companies referred to in this Title pay the costs of compulsory health insurance. It is said that they are registered at the institution or, in whatever way, they have the right to reimbursement. And that's not their cost. I would warn you, however, that there are also many categories in this amorphous self-sustained group, which live heavily on capital gains and pay 14 euros. About the students. Look, with all the empathy for the students, I have to say, 26 years is a high limit. Slovenia faces a major problem of fictitious entries; we know that it is a protector or a solution to the problem of unemployment. However, in such a way that we continue to defend it, we will not contribute to limiting these fictitious entries. And I just don't see it that way. A colleague named Jazbec, who is a doctor, said well, by the age of 26, medical students can study regularly and normally. I studied alone when I was 22, and I was a mommy. I don't know who's studying by the age of 26. Do you think we're really talking about real students or are we talking about those who are fictitiously enrolled? It needs to be cleaned up and poured with pure wine. Otherwise, as I say, I will not support the amendment, because I think we have reached a sufficient level of compromise in the coalition, decided on a very mild and gradual transition, and I believe that this path is simply to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jasmina Opec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We all agree that the health department is in red numbers and that urgent measures must be taken to improve this situation. Even in the Slovenian People's Party, we have repeatedly pointed out this with various questions from the Member States. But we focused much more on what is called expenditure. We are now talking about an increase in contributions, but no action has yet been taken on how to make the expenditure not to be so great. Contributions are easy to increase, along the line of least resistance – you adopt the law and raise contributions. I have already warned in the position of the Group of Members that it seems particularly unfair for us to see these contributions increase particularly for a particular category of population, which already do not have the means to survive, the unemployed and, yes, the students as well. I graduated very quickly myself when I was 23. However, I was also unemployed because I graduated right at the beginning of the crisis period. And I know what it's like to be unemployed when you have to look at every euro you have in your wallet. And the question is, once unemployed, where should you pay higher contributions if you already have no means of survival? Will this mean that the unemployed will no longer be able to pay and be deprived of their rights? I don't know. I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's still an interest, so I'm inviting you to report it. Mr Darko Jazbec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I feel like we're doing a story where it's not. This contribution has already fallen to €22 with the amendment, i.e. from €14 to €22. You need to know that we have the lowest contribution in the European Union to basic health insurance. If we look at neighbouring Croatia, this contribution has about 350 kunas. In fact, we have minimally raised this basic health insurance. By the 27th birthday, it is usually 8 years of study, which is in principle sufficient for the longest study of medicine. But it has to be said that this isn't some big number. If half of the students in the last year of medicine had gone beyond eight years, which is not really, it would have been just over a hundred students. There are other studies, you can go over this number in years in every study. But we're hearing about extremely large numbers here. The representative of the Student Organization spoke on the working body about the number 37 thousand, here today we heard a few thousand. So it's one other story, it's a fictitious entry, and we probably won't be trying to protect it now, and the system isn't motivational either. The second thing I'd say is this limit is 26 years. It is only a matter of some legal order, of compliance with other legislation, where we are not in any way at this time. PIZ 2 already says that family pension belongs to the end of schooling or to a maximum of 26 years. Then we have the Marriage and Family Relations Act, which also discusses the duty of child survival up to the age of 26. By setting this limit long ago in our legislation, the contributions are minimally increased, at least in the European Union, and the number of these individuals is not as high as it is attributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you, too. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you, President. Minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues! While the government refers to the absence of internal reserves in the field of health care, at least in this article, if this amendment of New Slovenia, SDS and colleagues from the SLS are not accepted, they will pay young people, young people after 26 years of age who are still studying and young people who are unemployed. I agree that if young people have long studied that there is a problem, but that is not the problem with this law, it is the problem of another law and of another minister. I support that minister's efforts, because I think that really young people, at least at this first stage, have been studying too long, fictitious entries have been a problem, they have always been a problem, I have warned myself, and I have not been an ideal student, I have already been a little more active in youth structures myself. The social government, this government, will be one of the many questions of approximately 3.5 million, given that data has been well written by colleagues from SLS, about 37,000 are such persons, so 3.5 million will be paid by young people. So those young people in which this government is supposed to cultivate some hope of how the future of young people are. Yesterday, colleague Andrej said what the future of young people was. Yes, the loans and debts that this government prepares with each day or every law. I'm not going to tell you about other laws so the president won't remind me, because he could count them for at least two minutes. You obviously don't know how to make order on public contracts, it's a cancer wound of the health system, but because you don't know how to do it, you're an account, even though you've seen a mistake on the board and at least partially reduced this amount, you'll have a minimum charge if we play in numbers, that's about 70% of the increase in the contribution to students and young unemployment, yes, there's only one so small figure, but if we're in practice, but that's for those who don't come from Ljubljana, where beer and pizza are a little cheaper, and it's on a monthly basis one pizza and one beer. Maybe not much, but for young people who, as I said before, will not talk about other taxes, it is another additional condition that young people really wonder more every day why they should stay in this Slovenia, why not pick up the sewing and hoof and go to other countries where these different systems, including health care, don't hit their heads so much. Indeed, another article you have made to young people is not to the extent that you force them to become an unfriendly country for young people. Earlier, there has been a lot of talk about justice, about privileges, this time we are talking about unfair measures and the unfair privilege that young people will pay. In particular, it is interesting that the medical students who have one of the most difficult studies are one of the longest, and when we talk about the health sector, it is those young people, the new doctors, at least the Slovenian nationalities, who will be greatly lacking, who will pay the highest price for this article if this amendment is not accepted. I have a feeling that some or some of them don't know how to deal with young people or they don't want to or maybe even some of them want to erase young people, including students. And so in addition to the attack in all areas, unfortunately, there is also an attack on higher education or on young people who want to complete a higher school. And I believe that if this remains, what young people will help us, they will be highly educated, because with that day, if not before they graduate, they will seriously consider whether Austria is the promised land or whether any other country is much more promised than unfortunately this country is. The government, the representatives of the coalition, really, I am no longer the youngest generation to make no mistake, but thank you for giving new tax or health burdens to young people every month with this proposal. I will support the amendment, and the law, if this amendment is not adopted, I cannot support it in any way, because these questionings, instead of looking elsewhere for resources, pay for them, not for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you. Ms Kristina Valenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much, and thank you very much again. At the outset of this amendment, let me say that the Civil Code has already warned the beneficiaries of this category in the coordination process. And the coalition listened to this, so we also adopted an amendment on the committee, which gradually or slightly increases this contribution rate. However, two facts appeared on the committee in the debate itself. For the first time, of course, mathematics does not somehow come out in the number of beneficiaries of this category. The student organization is operating on one number, even the unions have contacted with other numbers. In the material prepared by the Ministry, it is said that the people who pay their own contributions are just over 77 thousand, the unemployed 120 thousand. I would like to repeat what Crnak Meglič said about those who cannot pay for themselves or who do not have income to pay for them, and this is already stipulated in the law. What I think is important is that I might also support the figures, why we basically insisted on expanding these bases and raising the levels of contributions, so that we can also raise the data from the offered frameworks a little bit, and the data that the ministry provided us once during the coalition coordination. About two billion euros are collected annually in the health sector, of which 800 are made by regular employees. It is said that this means, say, EUR 2 000 300 per year on average per employee. Of course, we have a progressive scale and it depends, of course, on revenue, but I am talking about the average. Farmers €400 per year, unemployed €900, pensioners €660. These are just some of these categories. What I would like to point out is what Mrs Neknak Meglič has already said, that we have a lot of confusion, a lot of categories and that these things need to be unified.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you very much. To begin with, it is very difficult to argue against demagogism, very, very difficult. I even have to say hopeless. To begin with Adam, as we call it — a young man of study. Even if we are talking about the disease, the first disease ends at the age of thirty-three, the second disease at the age of 25. By the age of 26, all students must study regularly. It is said that the problem you are opening here is actually the problem of fictitious entries and perhaps some exceptions when some categories could not start studying immediately after high school. But in principle, it's a question of fictitious entries. Let's get some fresh wine. Regularly studying youth, the one who needs to work so that she can actually finish her studies within the legal deadline, will do so by the age of 26. Another time. Once again, I ask the Ministry to explain the rights of the unemployed. As I know, they must be reported as active job seekers at the employment institution and, if they do not have the income owner, the compulsory health insurance covers the municipality. So they're not in anything worse. But this is covered by the congregation. Who and what exactly are we talking about today? And again. The fairness of the system means that we burden about all categories of insurers with the same scope of rights. That's justice. And we are far from that righteousness. Once we have taken the first step, we have such problems to deal with. Only when we go into a complete change of law can we just raise our hands and say, hopeless, because once again, the demagogies, how much we burden someone, will overcome them. I'm really asking you, let's talk about the facts, let's talk about what we really need to do. For me, a more important argument than the need to remedy things in health care – and, of course, I am the first to advocate that a complete overhaul of the health system should be made, but unfortunately in 20 years no minister has done it and now this minister cannot pay the price for everything – is for me whether we have made the extensions right and whether we will follow in the system law what the system law actually has to ensure. And that's the justice of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you. Replica is difficult to reach in such implementation. I was just saying that fictitious entries are a problem. All health care is a problem. But you, if you don't support this amendment, are putting an account on young people. Yeah, fictitious entries are a problem, young unemployed are a problem, but you're putting an extra burden on them. And, dear predecessor, not all young people are fortunate enough to go straight to high school and study immediately after high school. That's the first fact. And the second fact that you're making excuses, yes, if they don't pay young people, they're going to pay the congregation. Great. It is truly commendable for all those who work in what municipal world, that we have the will to do anything else at all on the local self-government, which you degrade and destroy. Yes, another bill that will rise at the level of local self-government. Really. Now, indeed, it will be a final time for all congregations to be abolished, so that the congregation will not pay for the study to young people, but rather to pay for the country for which it is also in charge. Madam President, all students do not have ideal cases in both health, social and other fields so that they can study regularly and be able to complete regularly. I told everyone before, I was not an example of an ideal student, nor am I now when I continue to study, but that these questions, if you do not support this amendment, but put them on the table for young people, are a little overturned by those who talk so much about young people and talk so much about the social state. Social State, like that, yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Chush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. If it is fair for the Social Democrats to put an extra burden on young people, then you are all more than social. Maybe you could say you're a social caviar, that young people are paying for your life on a big foot. We will additionally burden young people, as has been said, those who are unemployed, those who are studying at the postgraduate level, and have begun to study later, as Mr Lisec has already said. Not everyone went to college right after graduation. However, as has been found, students of master’s and doctoral bologna programs will also be struck. And you've already stolen the future from these young people, and now you're going to put more pressure on them. Thank you! Bravo! There was also a lot of talk about fictitious entries. The problems of fictitious entries we are aware of are all present here, and I think quite a few efforts have already been made to reduce fictitious entries. The benefits, if I say so, or the rights of the student's insurance and status are linked to the status itself, so this must be regulated by the Minister responsible for education, science and sport. And this is not regulated and cannot be regulated by the Minister of Health. And when there is so much talk about this policy of yours, which is specifically directed at young people and debt, I would like to tell you. You all probably know, even the President of the Government says a lot, "Turn your mind on, ask for an account." A group of young people contacted me just a few days ago and said to me, "Andrej, such a policy by the government of Alenka Bratušek gives us a message: turn your mind on, go away."
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Chus. The list of panellists is closed for once. We remain with Article 8 and with the amendment to Article 8. I see you still want to discuss it. Please sign in. We have six more debaters reported. The first is Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, once again a nice greeting to all! Look, I'm sure the content of the amendment that the entire opposition has proposed makes sense. And I'm here, and I'm asking you, my fellow opposition, for your support. If this was the problem with students over 26 years old, yes, of course, I am the first one to want everyone to graduate by the age of 26. But unfortunately, in Slovenia there is a unique school system in Europe and we have the longest time of study. And we need to fix that. This, of course, is not a matter of the Minister of Health, but of some other kind, universities, etc. Here I, as the amendment explained, focus mainly on young people who are unemployed. And now you are raising the cost of health care for these unemployed young people. Please! I would like to inform the Minister again that he has in New Slovenia or I hope to claim on the side of the entire opposition allies when it comes to a thorough and complex reform of the health system. It's true, it's very complex, and it's true, we haven't done it properly in 20 years. Now we are all talking only about the revenue side of the health register. We burden young unemployed, we burden espies, etc. What have we done, colleagues and colleagues, on the cost side of the medical register? Are public procurement of medicines and other devices ideal? Are investments in health facilities ideal for us? Those who apply for these invitations are likely to see and count on the bottomless bag. Why would I take 10 if I could get 100? And here's the problem, colleagues and colleagues, and we need to work in this area. This solution, which the coalition is likely to vote on, is partial. The question is whether it will have as much financial impact as the draft law does. Perhaps in the next month or two months we will meet again with the amendment of this Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. Never ending story. Until we embark on a fundamental reform of the health system. And here, Mr. Minister, in the New Slovenia Group you have an ally. Root reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Bikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Yes, we all want to, and it has been repeatedly debated today, but it has also been stressed that we want to live in a more just, equitable and solidarity-based country. In general, I can say that I am in favour of the law, because the law we are adopting today is going in this direction, trying at least to approximate the contribution rates for all labour market participants, which means that all those who benefit from health services should contribute to the so-called health care remittances of amounts that are more equal or more solidarityally distributed. All – students as well. These have so far paid 14 euros. As it is said, following coalition coordination in the law, this amount is now €22.72. As for the young unemployed, let me say that the congregation pays for their contributions. That's what he's paying for now, and that's what's gonna happen in the future. When contributions are evenly distributed, this does not mean that patients will have fewer rights. No, the rights of patients remain unchanged. This should be stressed because the law does not go into the so-called basket of health services and therefore does not change them. The only problem is that this marriage should have been adopted yesterday, if I may say so. Let me also say that several amendments of the opposition, similar to the coalition, have been tabled on the committee, so that it seems to me that we want to do the same and we see things quite alike. I therefore welcome the decision taken by the Committee to send a new system health law to the National Assembly at the beginning of the following year, so that together we can make it a better and one that will satisfy all the inhabitants of our Slovenia. And I will not support this amendment of the SLS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kristina Valenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Let me just add some facts to my previous implementation. When I spoke earlier about the numbers that individual categories contribute to the health treasury, I wanted to illustrate only that the life expectancy over the years is, of course, prolonged, that we contribute the largest part to the health treasury in our active work and that it is likely that when we talk thoroughly about the renovation of this system, the word will also go on to number 26, i.e. about students under 26 years of age. Next thing. When we adopted the pension reform in the former coalition, we also adopted one provision, namely that students after their parents died receive a pension by the age of 26. But I don't remember the debate we have today at about 26 years of age. One more fact. I have also accepted the representatives of the student organisation in our office, where they have also reminded me of their thinking, of their problems which should have been brought up by these changes. And they themselves have said that they understand that those students who participate in studies with delay also accept this responsibility, that studies after 26 years also bring certain financial burdens and that they understand that this category of students must also contribute their share. And that's why we've listened and we've reduced this level significantly. And one more thing. The unions have been in favor of intervention law the whole time we've been, I'll say, opposed to intervention law. Even twice, the Civil War has received a public letter about how we are the ones who are ruining the health system and the medical treasury. And it was only on the committee Wednesday that the unions came up with a proposal that they also thought was addressing the category they were supposed to represent. So then he understands the one who can.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valenčich. I was informed that visitors from the Red Cross from Pomurje joined us on the balcony. I welcome all of this and I want you to follow this debate closely in the National Assembly. It's Mrs. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 8 is like Article 5 for me very complicated, problematic and I always have a problem when I talk about such articles. We're talking about young people, we're talking about unemployed people and we're talking about students. The current law has taken very good care of the students. My comment concerns the expansion of preventive checks, which we do not have enough in the country and which students need. However, as regards the intervention law and the raising of the rate paid from the base, at the amount of 35% submitted, relates to the gross base for pension and disability insurance. But it would be nice if we didn't lift anything. I once said in this National Assembly that I'm not here to raise anything for any man. But, I'm sorry, everyone has to contribute their share to the health department. Article 8, trade unions advocate a 20% increase, adopted by 25%. The first proposal was 35%, which means that what the unions are advocating is very much in line with our law. For all those, as my predecessors have already said, who are students, but if they are unemployed and have no insurance, take care of the congregation. However, all those who work are obliged to pay certain contributions to the health department. That is why I do not think there is much misunderstanding in this article either. I agree that we must be careful in the preparation of the new Health Insurance and Health Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Here's some more mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. If the action of young people in politics will be at the level of political culture that I have seen with my colleague, Chuš and Lisco, I am concerned that it is simply a matter of exploiting the radicality of the position and radicality of the language, not of in-depth reasoning. I am, I must admit, outraged at this level, which was at the level of disciplining political opponents. The metaphors used are only out of political culture. Either way, someone is grasping hands or otherwise gesticulating, my fellow Member, you are so master of this and you have good students in your younger colleagues. So much for it, because I find it really rude to discuss it like that. Now there is something else about the flat-rate comparison of Social Democrats with their lack of acceptance and misunderstanding for young people. You know, the resolution on the National Higher Education Programme and some other legislation goes in this direction, so that the study time will not be replaced by 26 years of age, but that free education will be possible in a certain timeframe for all those who will enter the study later. It's a Scandinavian model. In Sweden, 6 years is the right to make use of this period of study at any time in their lives. But it's not just a free study that can be regulated differently. Here, however, it is coordinated, as colleague Jazbec explained and others, with some other legislation, and cannot be outside this context. But if we are discussing understanding the young generation, understanding young people and something like that, then it is also important to understand that not all students are students. Although I would be very pleased, on the other hand, it is often possible to hear more often how to mix the entries, because it is a huge cost. While I point out that the trend in Europe is that Slovenia is getting closer to it in terms of the proportion of students and it is all just good, but I hear from some parliamentary parties different views as to how the number of students should be comparable to the proportion of those who graduate. So, you know, this student thing is kind of like a story to me that's very written, that I don't say, and now I'm gonna use some metaphor, sometimes like a bullshit nest. Depends on which law we are discussing. I would stress, however, that there is a lack of understanding of the underlying problem and that solidarity among young people should also be counted on. What about those young people who don't study and pay into health bills, counting on them to have the benefits our health system offers. So you're on very slippery ground. You don't listen to the argument. However, I think that this has been highlighted enough in the Committee's debate and I support the solution adopted by the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I can see two hands. Can I help you? Yeah, you just didn't discuss it. Procedurally, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam President. About the political culture of the predecessor. What she does herself, she always wants to put on others. And I would like the predecessor to apologize to me and my fellow Member, Andrei Couch. Unless she meant that when she confronted us with the radicals to oppose her thinking, I was actually commended. Otherwise, I do not agree with her policy that we are radical, that we have tried and that we have debated in an inexorable and even indecisive manner. Madam President has discussed past the law, past the article and past the amendment, and has also confronted us with the radicals, and I therefore ask my colleague Andrej to apologize to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam Vice President. To Mr Lisco, and to anyone else from the SDS, I am prepared at any time to give a language lesson and explain to them the vocabulary of the Slovenian language. Some actions simply indicate that they do not understand certain things. The word "radical" or "radical" is not a quantifiable word, not a systolic word, not an expressive word, but a full-memory neutral word in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary. So I won't apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u107	This certainly was not a procedural proposal. You used the rules again this time. But I apologize to Mr Jazbec for letting him off the list before, and he has a word to discuss. Here you go, Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. See, in Slovenia we have this basic health insurance and additionally very funny. The combination of €14 can be basic health care twice as expensive. It would logically be the opposite combination. And when, as a result of Zuyfa, the extra insurance was triggered, you weren't loud in the opposition, and you used the expression that it was an attack on higher education and that I knew what else was going on. In fact, we have a very low level of basic health insurance and it seems to me from the opposition that it is suggested that young people go abroad if I quote, "where the health system does not hit you so hard on the head" that it is not possible to understand this. Where should they go abroad, where basic insurance is cheaper than 14 euros? I mean, those are just words that come to mind. Slovenia can boast that we are European champions: the highest health rate is €1. But the problem is the stability of the health register. And that's what we're talking about today. I see there's a lot of misunderstandings back on the income side, the expenditure side. We can save the losses of hospitals tomorrow, but that doesn't mean there's going to be 150 million next year in the health treasury minus, because it's two different levels, internal and external debt. It is a matter of cash stability, as the health treasury pays for health services programmes. If there is no source of funding, it is only possible to cut into a basket of rights or reduce programmes, not to mention a disaster to reach quality. This has nothing to do with direct, direct and direct losses within public health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Gantar also wanted the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam President. No one among us, again as before, wants to raise their contributions and burden them. We've talked about kids before, now we're talking about young people. On the other hand, we have a health system that is in serious trouble because of the situation in which the country is located. If the country has been able to allow, in better times, the payment system for health services to be insolvent, because the money was still relatively sufficient, it is necessary to increase and establish a system of solidarity in the area of payment at a time when we are trying to continue to provide all the people with an existing level of health services. And in fact there is no country that offers for fourteen euros what we offer. I am glad that there has been a compromise that the amendment has also softened this value as much as it can. Besides, it wouldn't be if the law didn't allow these students to be insured. See, the limit of 26 years has not been invented by health care, the limit of 26 years is multi-rights, and in this case also applies to the area of health. And if there were not for article 15, paragraph 21, of the Law, this could indeed be of great concern to us because we could limit these young people. In view of the fact that it is and that it is possible to become active job seekers to have the possibility of insurance if they do not have their own property, they have covered all the costs of compulsory health insurance. I think that even with this proposal, which we have really made in a situation where additional money is needed for all of us to have guaranteed health rights, this is a compromise that we have had to accept, although I believe that it is not with great joy, but certainly not by expecting someone to applaud us for it. One more time. We are saving the rights of all of us, all of us citizens, from children to the oldest, and we are trying to preserve the crisis despite the level we have today. And that's the purpose of it. Any withdrawal of contributions is unloving and, once again, we are equalising or bringing solidarity in the payment at a time when it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much too, Minister. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it with article 8. There's a few more wishes. Check-ins are on the move. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much. During the morning or morning, we witnessed one serious restriction brought by the President of the National Assembly on a strict debate to an individual amendment, although we all know that we have discussed all the amendments many times in this Chamber of the National Assembly, when time is running out and we have stopped discussing. I am quite pleased, President, that you allow me to say the breadth of the debate, as you have allowed it in Positive Slovenia. I agree with that way. However, it has been difficult to listen to Mrs Potter's abuse for the sixth year in terms of procedural proposals, which she will also do after my performance. We can expect that now. You know, talk about the book language, Mrs. Potter, everything's nice and well, but I think you have a lot of work to do in the coalition. Even if it is not a Slovenian language, I will try to understand it in this National Assembly because it is a Member, so there is no need for you to get into the book language and explain a story here to the younger Members, as far as my students and students are concerned. I'm proud of them, but you'd better judge your own, and you'd better read your own laws, and you wouldn't have to. As far as the law itself is concerned, or the amendment we are talking about. I will say so, Minister, because everything is fine and well, we both sat together in the government, in the previous government, but the last law in the field of health was written by Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic. No health minister in the Pahor government, and neither did you in the previous government and the current government bring another law. This is now the only law, and this law actually raises taxes, such as at home, at pay rates or whatever. That's the easiest thing to do. It's far the easiest thing to do. Everyone can do that. But it's a lot harder to make order in health care. That's what's going on. Here I have trouble supporting such a law, and of course I will not support it or our amendment yes. As for Mrs Potrat, who always has a problem with me, look away, because you don't have to look at me. I'm proud of my younger colleagues, too, if they take anything away from me. And it's okay if they do. It will be better if you deal with the legislation you're paid for, not with me and my colleagues. Well, the use of a business proposal follows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u113	Here's a replica, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u114	Madam Vice-President, you gave me your word after the two Members of your Group have asked for my apology. So I reacted to what was required. I couldn't replicate the procedure, and then you reprimanded me, czech, you used the procedure again. I am nothing today, so once again the word is completely unwarranted, but it only shows your partiality to me, which I have seen many times, and I have warned you of this. I don't want to disappoint Mr Gorenak, and I will answer for this, but I must tell you that I am being replicated because I am often approached by people who expect me to react when the level of speech in the National Assembly slips below the level of the choir language. And when I was asked several times how I assess the language level in the National Assembly and how Members and Members speak, I said it was different. Because I feel that the language expresses itself individually, I do not resent Mr Gorenak if he uses conversational or often even verbal language. He already knows why he's using this level. But the fact is, in the National Assembly, in the public space as representatives of the legislative branch of government, we should speak congreguously. And if we asked for a congregational talk, we would have much work to do in this national assembly. But I find it unacceptable that someone stumbles at the speech of someone who is not native to Slovenian. He fulfilled the first condition that he is in the National Assembly, he has learned Slovenian, but I say that I do not know whether there is an essential difference between someone who is a Slovenian mother tongue not using a congregation language or if someone who does not use that language is not a Slovenian mother tongue. I hope I've seen enough of this. Mr Gorenak, we can nod as much as we want, but the fact is, if anyone stumbles at anyone, then Mr Gorenak often comes to me with a paternalistic attitude. And I have already said that in old democracies such treatment of fellow Members is unacceptable. Go and see what lesson the good manners have got [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u115	Mrs. Potrata, if not the other, it's been three minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u116	Yeah, I'll just finish the sentence. [[...]] What lesson did the president of Great Britain receive? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u117	Please [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u118	when he was so aware of the ambassador. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u119	Mrs Potrata, according to the Rules of Procedure, the replica is intended to tell you where you were misunderstood. This time you have afforded a replica for teaching lessons to me and my colleagues. I hope that this will not happen in the future, but if it does, please be at least as critical to everyone. Mr. Tanko would you like? Procedural. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. If we read Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we would see that paragraph 1 says that the National Assembly operates in the Slovenian language. The Slovenian language is also spoken, not in the electoral book language, but in the Slovenian language. And Slovenian words are an integral part of the Slovenian language. However, it is not an integral part of the Slovenian language that Mr Gorenak pointed out. And if you are already asking other Members, especially our parliamentary group, to speak in the elective Slovenian language, in the book language, in the mother tongue, then the operation of the National Assembly is subject to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And it would be good if, in the coalition, Mrs. Potrata, you had experience in education, especially in the field of Slovenian language, you would do some lessons and complete this material. It is unworthy, however, that you dispute the debates of Members who speak the Slovenian language in what they say in the area where they come from. That seems insulting to anyone here. We are patient and bear with us such debates, which are not in Slovenian language, we do not protest, but you will get dizzy if someone uses a slang part in his debate or if he has a slightly closer discussion and speech in a dialect. Therefore, I propose, Madam Potrata, that if you are already talking about anything, you should first read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and look at what it says in Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the outset between those introductory provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Chuš. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] [[...]] Mrs Potrata, Mr Tanko specifically mentioned that he referred to Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I understand that this was a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Chus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Since there have been quite a few interactions in the meantime, allow me to respond to those, even though I am well aware that these amendments to the health law are today. Mrs Potrata, I personally respect you very much, and I do not think it makes sense for us to argue about such childish matters here now, I will say. But you are also very problematic in terms of what you teach others or young people, because you are a priority against everything that comes from the SDS and you should also ask yourself a little bit about what and how. I very much respect Mr Jazbec of the type of Positive Slovenia, he is a great surgeon, I must commend him, I think he operated on my hand in 2002 and I am always grateful for that, but on certain issues, even today, we obviously do not agree. Today, coalition representatives spoke about solidarity, mutual assistance and understanding, but let me explain something as a youth representative. What you have now created throughout the independent state has caused every newborn who comes into the world to have 8,000 euro of pouf, and then you yourself demand solidarity, cooperation and understanding. I think that you, first of all, should apologize to all the young and young people who are still coming to live on too many feet and spend more than you've created. That's a fundamental problem. Here, I think we should talk a lot more. As far as the health sector and these measures and the amendments of our Group of Members are concerned. I'm pretty sure there's a lot of internal reserves in the area of health. This legislation, this intervention law, seems to me only to maintain the current state of affairs, i.e. this status, and to be indebted to young people. I told you before how much everyone's in charge. If I had previously understood the debate from the positive Slovenia, which boasted that she understood this problem and also reduced the burden on young people, i.e. students and all unemployed, we should now congratulate you and thank you for taking up only EUR 4 million per year. I think we should all go to rescue systemically, not to maintain our current status and take some more taxpayers and taxpayers. That's the easiest thing to do. The whole government is going to solve the problem at the wrong ends. All should be paid by young people. And poof, that's what the young people are gonna pay for. We ourselves know that 10% of the annual budget is devoted to interest alone, and this is growing. Those people who are responsible for this, even in health care, don't answer anything. That's the basic problem. We're living on a poof. The one who steals lives well, and that's not what he'll be responsible for. Once again, I regard this law as a fire-fighting action on the Horuk, which will preserve the current state for a year or two, and then the new Minister will come back and have the same problems again. I think it's a horrifying action that won't bring what you want, but it'll just put an extra burden on those who already have the least.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I'm very sorry that we don't want to get along, and we don't want to get along, but I understand. Health care is a very complicated system. When you say the system is too burdensome for young people. And let's make a very simple math bill. A young colleague at the age of 26 who works and receives a minimum wage will pay €105 in a health school, student 14, while the country needs him, there is no doubt about it, there is no doubt about it, an educated workforce, supports a study with free education, student nutrition, subsidising stays in student homes and so on. If we're talking about the young generation, we need to be exact. We have young people who work, and we have young people who study. That is to say, this argument, which has been used, is completely wrong. Another time. I have made it very clear that we urgently and bloodyly need a reform of the health system, so the SD proposal on the Health Committee has concluded that we will have a new Health Insurance Act in the National Assembly no later than March. But what I am saying is that the system that the Minister has chosen in this law is the expansion of the insurance bases and the gradual alignment of the level of contributions, and thus the right and just social state and true solidarity, is correct. And we see we've got problems already. We already have problems because this needs to be distorted and presented in isolation. It's not gonna work, buddy! The fact is that we all want the same quality or even more quality health care as we had, and thank God we have managed to preserve it. Thank God, even at the expense of the hard work of health workers. But we must be aware that it is simply necessary to make the system better, fairer and transparent in terms of the level of contributions. And that's all there is to it. As I said, in Article 8, we were aware of the need to build on more steps, so we took a step back. But we will not deviate from the basic purpose of the law. And that is, to build a system that will be fairer and more solidarityable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can only see one hand. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, the fact that we are looking for a better, better justice, I agree with that, Mrs. Črnak Meglič. And I would agree with that if you said it more calmly, not by a man like that. However, I would expect a preliminary debate on these matters, including as regards savings, to be opened up, at least some fundamental understanding of justice. It is not yet a month of what you presented in this National Assembly a project to control the liquidation of two Slovenian banks, called Probanke and Factor Banka. And it said that the net cost would be EUR 400 million, or EUR 200 per inhabitant of the Republic of Slovenia. That is how much the state budget will provide for this. These 200 euros will also burden an unemployed citizen, including an unemployed citizen. And this money will go to pay off those who have 100,000 or more euros in deposits in these two banks. Is that fair? In addition, if I understand Mrs Črnak Meglič correctly, you will burden this unemployed student with 125 euros at the annual level. A unemployed student. That's what you say, 300. The effect of this law here is a tenth of what you will guarantee for those who have more than 100,000 euros in these two banks. There's not a tenth of that or even a tenth of that. Is that fair? When we talk about the approach to solving some problems, we need to take a broader picture and also save there, in other areas, so that we can regulate these matters. On the one hand, however, we cannot give some people everything, and what is not legally theirs, and on the other hand we guarantee that some systems do not work. That's not fair. That's not fair. We have such fair cases at a time when you are the Social Democrats or an important party to the coalition, much, too. Even in social matters, this has already happened, including in this category, although it is health coverage. This is not fair, and this is not a uniform or fair distribution of burdens by structure, pyramids of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's not. I would understand that the approach to broadening the base for health contributions in cases where internal reserves are exhausted: in the field of medicines, in the field of health organisation, in the field of evaluation of health care and so on. This is not an increase in the contribution and base of the only measure we need to take to make health work. It's not the only thing. Increasing contributions is probably the last measure we can take. The first measure is definitely rationalisation. The first step is to clean up unnecessary costs. The first measure is certainly a reorganisation between the basic, secondary and tertiary levels. Because there are also structured costs on a case-by-case basis. And a lot of things are done at a very expensive level for unknown reasons, not done at the primary level and so on. It is very difficult to fight here or to support solutions that are fundamentally contrary to some of the measures you have already taken in the last month. I'm not gonna say early in May, but now in mid-September. And there you have donated EUR 400 million to those who do not need the necessary money to survive, because they have more than 100,000 guaranteed euros in these two banks. Here we hunt for euros and millimeters and what is for a decimal, a student or a person. The more threatened this person is and the harder it gets to work, the more pleasure you have, the more you seem to be burdening him. A greater pleasure, apparently! I suggest that when you do what you do with these health, social and wherever you go, first look at who you gave something to that month, and then look at how much extra burden you would put on someone. In the meantime, we can do so — needlessly. And here we have a case like this. Some are paid for luxury, others are taken for survival. Someone, a student who doesn't have a job, a student who doesn't finish, doesn't have a job — how are you gonna load him up with what? You're gonna burden his father and his mother! Yeah, what do you think?Oh, my God! You're gonna put a load on someone at the Factor Bank? Or who did you give it to? 100,000 Euros of deposit doesn't have everyone! [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] Of course it's because it's connected to each other. [[...]] Since the cash registers are linked, the state budget covers one or the other. One or the other! It's coming from one public fund or another! And if this is how you allocate public funds to such extreme cases, then something is wrong with the measures you take and the proposals you come before the National Assembly. There's gotta be something wrong. You handle the caste system. You have the highest caste that is untouchable. And there's nothing that can happen, no savings, if anything goes wrong, it's covered by public funds. And then you have the bottom caste, I don't know, pariahs, in Indian, and I think it's the bottom caste that they need to pick up completely. And that's a socially fair measure! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u128	Madam Vice President, I know that Jože Tanko is your boss and that you have a party organisation just the way you have it. But when you sit in this place, which is respectful to my notions, you have to have all the same vats. Mr Jože Tanko did not say anything about the contents of this amendment, but he taught us what to do, and more, insulted my colleague here behind me, Mrs Andrei Črnak Meglič, that she could not speak or speak somehow by a man and lower her voice. I could say for some of his colleagues that it would be good if we could ever lower a tone and have a normal conversation. If we come to this level in the National Assembly and if you don't take action by the people sitting in these places, then I'm really scared. And another thing, Mr. Jože Tanko, when you talk about what we do, it was interesting to listen two days ago to your debate on the Committee on Finance, when you were fighting for those people who were buying speculative documents and programs, so-called hybrid bonds, because they had bigger returns because they had 100 thousand euros at home, 200 thousand euros to buy bonds that were substantially more than ordinary bonds or deposits! For those you fought and wanted to burden all taxpayers in this country. That's why it was good because some of your members were buying these hybrid bonds. But today, when we talk about other things, of course everything is wrong. Have the same vats for everyone! Madam Vice-President, I am warning you and, above all, I ask you to warn Jozet Tank, even though he is your boss when he insults my colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'll warn you when I detect an insult. This time there was no offense in my opinion. Mr Han, I would like to have some comments on this procedural proposal of yours. I think it is right that we calm this debate a little bit and continue with Mr Simčič. Procedural? Here you go, then you have the upper hand, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Because now you've mentioned some matter that was on the board a few days ago, and if you comment on it, I'd like you to tell me exactly what was going on there. We proposed amendments to that law. We have proposed that all those in banks that are in control of liquidation or bankruptcy or need public means of action be disclosed to know who the money is. In a short period of time, you have once again opposed such a solution in order to make public those who need public money, or we will provide that money for them. Even at the Factor Bank and Probank it happened. You didn't support the decision. That's why I think it's unfair for you to accuse us of what we are defending and what solutions we support. Transparency, publicity, transparency, procedures against those who have caused these irregularities, Mr Han. You're against it. The solution in the law that we have proposed, the addition, goes this way. The investigative commission can't access the data. You're protecting it with these solutions that are there that you blocked there. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u131	All right, Mr. Tanko. Mr Han, we will interrupt the procedural proposals in this place and we will no longer discuss what has happened, nor has any procedural proposal been part of your proposal. They've both abused the rules of procedure. We interrupt these procedural proposals on matters that have taken place on some committees. We continue the debate on the amendment to Article 8. Here you go, Mr. Simchich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your word. Well, let's go back to the Health Care Act. Nicely greeted Vice President and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about health, we talk about values, and I think that number one is the value of health. There is always a need to introduce new taxes, new contributions, and there is always something drawing from someone. In the documentation we received at the tables regarding the law, however, we are always adapting to someone. The share of private expenditure is at European Union level when we are talking about expenditure. However, we have not yet aligned ourselves with the European Union in the field of households. When are we gonna get paid? That's a prize question. If I go back to Article 8, which we are discussing today. We're talking about unemployed people. We are talking about an army of unemployed people – 21,000. But how it is managed is shown in the proposal. So far, 14.17 euros, proposal 31.81 euros, but now we have dropped to 22.50 euros. Finally, the person is unemployed and falls under the burden of his parents if the person has them, if they are employed, if they are not even pensioners. What we will achieve with this is once again a question that we will be able to answer in six months, a year. And if I look at the reality a little bit, yes, we go down to the young, to the espouse, and to the congregations when we talk about foreigners. And we're talking about active revenue. But it's easy to pump with them. However, for those who do not have the euro per month, it is difficult to get 20 euros. The previous version 14 could have stayed. It's my opinion, and if I go back to the value of health, we're making it very short for someone here or we're hurting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 8? No, no, no. We are moving on to the debate on Article 22 and the amendment to Article 22 tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, the Parties Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? If no one wants to discuss it, then we also conclude the debate on this Article and the amendment. We are moving on to the last article to be discussed. This is Article 23 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I only see one wish. Here you go, Mr. Grill. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. With this amendment, we have tried somehow to extend this law, which I believe will be passed, slightly so as not to increase contributions to independent entrepreneurs. All the time, the debate highlights how important it is that we revive our economy, how important it is that we have new jobs, but the proceeds of all these efforts, and I believe that some are also sincere, unfortunately did not bear fruit. I do not believe that companies, especially those that employ more people, will succeed in a relatively short period of time, this is a period of months, years, to provide additional jobs where our people, young people or those with entrepreneurial ideas can be employed. And why, now, with the changes of this law, even those who may decide or decide to go on their own journey, to get some extra salt from the start, increase those costs that they will also have to pay. We therefore propose that the calculation of the higher level of health insurance contribution be extended by one year. I am convinced that a number of people, who are now in some way in some way, are going on their own business trip because it seems hopeless to him or that he does not believe that he will get a job, that he will find a chance to earn his own profits by entrepreneurship. But look, as soon as someone has this desire, somehow figure out what they're going to have to pay without having the income of 1 euro, this will will be over, believe me. It would therefore be very, very encouraging to extend it for one year. And finally, look, even the independent entrepreneurs who are actually the most hit by this crisis, most of the time they were the victims of the non-payers, most of the time they are victims of the poor banking system, not to mention all the irritations, from the guilt, to the third one that has happened during this period, this particular segment, which is an important part of our economy, is a burden. Unfortunately, they don't have a choice. They don't have jobs elsewhere, they're looking for their business opportunities here, and that's how you make it difficult for them here. I therefore propose that this amendment, which we have tabled, be supported. I am sure that it will not make a significant contribution to reducing income or inflows to health bills, but I am convinced that a number of people, who may also hesitate to go on their own business path because of such increased costs, may take courage and walk in this way. There'll be more people like this. We'll get out of this situation before we get out of it. Let's help this out, and it'll be better for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this point? Mr. Hear, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself would like to join Mr Grill's initiative and words. Unfortunately, somehow I cannot understand the paradigm of this government, which beats the pockets of those who create something. However, given that there is also a significant increase in the contribution to independent entrepreneurs, I would like to say that these governments of Alenka Bratušek have already been hit abnormally in the pocket during this period. It is a series of taxes: value added tax, more expensive blames and transports, it prepares long ago not real estate, and then we in Slovenia want to create an environment where people can create and have all the freedom to realize their potential. On the other hand, let's look at another paradox. The country, so Slovenia, is promoting the establishment of independent entrepreneurs, and now we will return this money to the budget through higher contributions. It seems to me that this is proof that the policy of the government of Alenka Bratusek is clueless and just a rag that can be patched up. On the other hand, this disgusting attitude towards the entities that create me, espeii and also other companies that have suffered these consequences through an ever-increasing burden, grieves me because the economy is the one that could lead Slovenia out of the crisis, but we are creating such an environment that is not very proud of us. On the other hand, the economy also finances our salaries, finances our health care and the functioning of the whole public sector, and also allows Slovenia to be a social state or a social state. That is why I am joining this call myself, and I hope that you will, I believe, still have some voices of understanding in the coalition that believe and are convinced that the economy that solves this has supported our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. If no one wants to discuss again, then we conclude this debate and we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timetable in half an hour, that is to say at 13.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u138	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before that, I ask you to check the operation of your voting devices and to make sure that something is wrong. We continue with the second point, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 25 June. Ten. 2013 which you also received on E-klop. First, we will consider Article 5 to which we have three amendments tabled and will discuss and vote in order, so that we will continue to discuss the amendment of the SDS and NSI members. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he doesn't want to, we're going to the vote. Just a minute. Mr. Han, maybe another time before, but still. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u139	I apologize, but before the vote, I would like to request a five-minute recess on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u140	I'm taking five minutes off. We'll continue at 13.41.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u141	We're continuing our adjourned session. I ask the leader of the parliamentary group whether he wishes to explain the decision of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] We shall proceed with the vote. We vote on the amendment of SDS and New Slovenia to Article 5. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 5 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also voting on the third amendment to Article 5, which is proposed by the Group of the Positive Slovenia, the Group of the Social Democrats, the Group of the National Gazette and the Group of DeSUS. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 2. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments to Article 8. Given that this is a substantively identical amendment, we are voting on both amendments together. These are the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? First, Mrs. Jasmina Opec called.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Much has been said today by the coalition about how righteous this law is. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we see no justice in the fact that the red numbers of health bills are being solved not by rationalising public contracts, with a more effective network, but by raising contributions. And it has absolutely nothing to do with justice to raise contributions for those who are already in a poor social situation. The amendment will be supported by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. Opec. Mr. Hear on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u144	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Of course, we also agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that changes are needed, but as Mrs Opec has already said, we are convinced that there are a lot of internal reserves, and this intervention law is another major blow against young people. I would like to say that on this basis there will be greater contributions for students over 26 years of age and also for young people who are unemployed. If I could just say that with the numbers. For students, the monthly contribution to compulsory health insurance will increase from 14.17 euros to 22.7 euros annually from 170 euros to 270 euros. This means that every student over 26 years of age will have to contribute a one-month scholarship, of course if he has one, because of his own condition. I would also like to say that we have 16,000 students in the Republic of Slovenia who will know this measure on their wallet, and we would also like to say that many study programmes are not so short. I have also discussed the programmes of medicine, architecture and veterinaryity myself, and the Bologna rate, unfortunately, we all have to agree, unfortunately extended the studies. Those who have come to study later will also be affected, and this will especially be known to masters and doctoral postgraduate students. The law will eventually affect 37,000 young people who, due to the insatiable government of Alenka Bratušek, will have to pay the puffs of older generations and live on a large foot at the expense of young people. Given that young people will contribute 4 million euros, this adds to the burden of young people. And if I repeat the words again, Mrs Bratuškova likes to say, "Turn your mind on, ask for an account", and today, if we do not support these amendments, we send a clear message to young people, "Turn your mind on, get out." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we can vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to Article 22 and to the decision on the amendment tabled by the coalition, the positive Slovenia parliamentary groups, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Anybody want a word? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the last amendment, which was tabled by the SDS and NSI Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Chuš, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you for saying that again. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are aware that independent entrepreneurs in the past have received certain benefits in this area, but we are aware in the SDS Group that the government of Alenka Bratušek has carried out a paradigm of taxation and taking money to those who have nothing or those who create. Thus, independent entrepreneurs have already been additionally burdened during the government of Alenka Bratušek with a higher value added tax, the promotion of vignettes and consequently transport, and a real estate tax is being prepared which will additionally burden independent entrepreneurs. We find it somewhat inappropriate that, with the paradigm of taxation and burdens of those who are still creating in this country and through the economy, they not only finance our salaries, but in fact provide all the functions of the State, namely public service, public services and, on the other hand, ensure that Slovenia remains a social state. At least that's what she's supposed to be. Therefore, our amendment proposes that these new burdens be lifted so that these entities can adapt or see if they will survive at all. He would add that he grieves us that the government of Alenka Bratušek is very unfriendly to those who create and to private property in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This concludes the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. In second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 5 and to Article 22 of the amended bill and I ask qualified applicants whether they might table amendments. If not, then we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service has not informed me that, because of the amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law has not been harmonised, nor has it been notified by the Government. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Anyone else want a word? We will give the floor first to Mr Horvat, who first made his statement on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-worker! Let me say that the New Slovenia Group cannot support such a law. The law was created quickly to quickly fill the financial gap in the health treasury. It's a partial solution, it's a solution along the line of least effort, and good solutions require effort. And Mr Minister, once again, as I have already said today, I say that you have an ally in New Slovenia when you come before this assembly with a systemic solution. Don't be afraid, Mr. Minister, of any lobbying, I won't count them, but they're huge, because the health system is draining money not by capillaries, but by streams, and that's what needs to be plagued. It's got to be jammed. There will be no support for us. However, we expect that in this term, as long as it takes, you will come, a respected coalition, with a systemic solution. It is true that we may have needed it for 20 years, but now "the devil has taken a joke", now it is necessary to approach systemic, imaginary solutions, otherwise this subsystem will fall apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. On behalf of the SLS Group, Mrs Jasmina Opec [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support the law because it is an unfair law that places the most burden on the weak because it interferes with privacy and human rights, because it provides provisions that raise more questions than answers, especially in the field of cross-border health, especially children. This is not a law that would stabilize the medical treasury and correct the health problems. Effective action and solutions lie in systemic changes that should have been addressed in this national council yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on their behalf? Anyone else want a word on behalf of the Group of Members first? On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia has the floor of Mr Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. In Positive Slovenia, we will support this law, as the necessity of adopting it is reflected in its content, namely the stabilisation of public healthcare and the implementation of the EU Directive on cross-border healthcare. Very symbolic. This limit for us to introduce a directive into our legal order is exactly the last date today. Additional money under this law is collected by applying the principle of fairness. This is by eliminating certain disproportionates. However, as regards the EU Directive on cross-border healthcare, healthcare rights are expanding in principle. In Positive Slovenia we are aware of the seriousness of the situation in the health treasury, and this should be seen in the context of the adoption of this law. In the following year, the forecast is about 150 million minus in the health insurance company. And it is envisaged that 50 will be delivered later next year, 50 will need other measures, and 50 will also mitigate losses. In addition, it must be said that health bills finance health services programmes and internal reserves do not affect the balance sheet in the health treasury directly. In Positive Slovenia we will support this law, because it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Jazbec. Mr Jurša, on behalf of the Desus Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u154	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. I'm probably not going to say something like that, which we wouldn't all understand in the future, that we're going to be supporting the proposed law in our parliamentary group. Not only because the Minister has proposed it from our quota, but we are assessing that certain financial solutions must be implemented as soon as possible. I will not talk about the implementation of the European regulation in our legal order, because we are actually going to do this on the last day, but I will say one more thing. We will support systemic solutions, regardless of which minister will propose them, whether it will be a minister from our quota or another minister, because we assess, if we do not find a solution, then we will have major health problems. However, you are probably none of us sitting in this hall, and not the one who can accompany us today on television – I hope there are few because it is a beautiful day outside – that we want public health and actual health care, that we will not get as far as we used to, as in some countries that are so sung, but if you want the United States of America, where access to public health or their health is almost lacking. So once again, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Lisec, on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! There is no support for the proposed law in the SDS Group in the form it is before us. Under this government, which is called the social government, various levels increase contributions to those groups that are already most vulnerable to taxes, with taxes and with the fines that this government is preparing on a daily basis. There is no way that I agree with some horrifying law, which is among the most sensitive, and on the other hand, the Ministry is saying that the internal health reserves are no longer available. Moreover, over a period of one year, two years or even more, nothing has been done in the field of public procurement. You put money in health and budget bills by those who have no money at all, and the financial consequences of the law will not be as optimistic as you guarantee it. In the SDS Group, we do not believe that such horrifying actions are acceptable in any way, that we will continue as the leader of another party has said, no matter who the minister is, if the measures are bad, we cannot support them in any way. And this law and these measures are bad, so we cannot support them in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support this law myself. If we know the table on how different contributions are to the health register, I'm not going to list all of these numbers because we've already gone through, but it's actually a huge imbalance. We're only doing a little bit of repair with this law. Interestingly, the main purchase or main bearers of burden in this law are a group of people who were not mentioned in the four-hour debate today. These are copyrights and business contracts, which means that in principle, in the majority of the law and in the opposition, you all agree, which I am pleased with. I would say, if this law is not adopted, this means an extremely difficult situation for the health treasury. In this case, what could happen? We can only reach into the basket of rights, we are not likely to lower quality, nor can we practically lower the prices of health services, so I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u160	Madam Vice President! I will not support this law in particular for the reasons already stated in today's debate. A lot of money in health is going in the wrong direction and in the wrong hands. If this money, which is in health care, could properly be used, such solutions as are now proposed by this law would not be necessary. I will not support this law because it puts pressure on young, unemployed young and independent entrepreneurs again. This is a re-tax and nothing more than the re-burden of the most vulnerable groups in this society. How long are we going to let things go this way in Parliament? How can we look at the soil and adopt solutions that are harmful to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? And that's exactly what this marriage is doing again. It burdens the most vulnerable groups of our citizens and citizens. And those who, on the one hand, find it difficult to live in education so that they can normally cover all the costs needed for their education. On the other hand, craftsmen, espaes, who are still struggling to break through from day to day and pay for all cash registers. These should be reburdened. And that's exactly what this current government is doing. I think that this is absolutely irresponsible and harmful for most of these vulnerable groups in our Republic of Slovenia, so I will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I see that there is a lot of desire for a debate, so I am opening up the possibility to apply for a debate to explain the vote on my behalf. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u162	Madam President, thank you for your word. I must admit that in these days I have not deliberately advertised myself because I expected an argument that would be more realistic. First of all, in Slovenian society, we are facing an incredible rise in civilizational diseases that have fueled this, we can say brutal capitalism on the one hand, because we were prisoners of Chinese products, including food, Spanish, Italian vegetable retailers, so we did nothing in the preventive work in Slovenian health policy. This law should also be co-ordinated with the Ministry of Agriculture. We are prisoners of fast food, we have a whole type of disease in young people, we have a whole type of disease due to an incredible number of increases in sweet drinks, with a whole range of supplements. So prevention is the cheapest in health policy. On the other hand, the case is also concerned about the poor operation of large healthcare providers. The third thing you have recently seen in the media is the so-called monopolies in the field of pharmaceuticals distributors, where cartel deals are abnormal prices, and all of this builds on abnormal health insurance expenditure. I must add to all of this that all of this will be paid by the most vulnerable groups. The net salary will be reduced again, without additional insurance today you almost cannot function, and I can say that this is a defeat. This is a policy of least resistance, finding the simplest solutions and policies that lead to the collapse of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Just a little more attention, two more discussers on the list. Here you go, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. One of the Members or Members of Parliament raised an important question as to what would have happened if this law had not been adopted. That's an important question. You know what would happen? This is my opinion, everyone has the right to an opinion, and that is why we are different people in Parliament. And don't expect me to attach myself to any position or opposition, because it's not in my nature. Let me get on with it. What would happen? What will happen in a few years, six months, a year, two, three – the public sector should be restructured. More health, better health and better social welfare are only the result of a well-functioning economy. Do you know that everyone knows that? See, in Finance today we read: "Serbian Economy Minister Radulovic says: Tax reduction is important for the recovery of the economy." And in a very extensive article, he talks about insisting on reducing the burden of the economy. And we are burdening this economy and this population again. You know, I'm not voting against this position because I don't care who's in position - it'd be best if it was me, right, that's true. [[...]] [[Laughing in the hall]] Another statement was made by the minister: "The health system is in trouble." Yeah, wait, the economy's in trouble too, the population's in trouble! How many extra bills will the population get, and with what else will we burden it?Oh, my God! I think this road is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u165	Dr. Andrei Black Nebula, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you very much. In a rather extensive debate, in which most Members and Members were not present, we have tried to explain why this law is necessary. In the first place, I'm going to support the law. In addition, I must say that I will also support this law because it carries the designs of the new health system that we will establish in the system law. And somehow we don't know how to prove it, because this health system must strive for greater justice and solidarity. You're saying we'll burden the most vulnerable. Then I ask you what is the difference between a young worker, say 26 years old, and he pays €105 for health care, and young students who extend their studies and pay €14. Who needs to maintain it? This worker has to maintain it. 80% of all healthcare funds are contributed by employees. That's why I'm telling you that we need to go in the direction, but if you don't want to hear us, take a look across the border, and you'll see that they don't have such medical systems. It is necessary to move in the direction of gradually equalising the level of contributions; those who cannot do so must be assisted by the social state. That's the right direction. And the connection, Mr. Visjak, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u167	Just a minute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u168	I can finish without your intervention. Can you please give me back this second?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u169	Keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna say what I said before. And most of the things I've heard today are demagogos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants a word? Mrs. Leila Hercegovac, then Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to see today's adoption of the intervention law in a positive light. Today is 25 October and today the Directive on cross-border treatment in the European Union is in force. This has also been confirmed by the European Commission and the representative of the European Commission in Slovenia. This means we need clear provisions for cross-border treatment. True, the dilemma was, indeed, that we tried to best explain them, explain them. It is true that we want systemic change and systemic law. It is also a guardian with the date of doing so, so I do not think there is any reason why we should not adopt this law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u174	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act increases the minimum monthly amount of contributions to independent entrepreneurs. This is for those who carry out this economic activity as a professional activity and as the only and main profession. I agree that when we look across the border, but look with great sadness, the trainee and the government coalition do not ask why our independent entrepreneurs transfer their headquarters and activities to neighbouring countries. I would say that with great shame we should all put our heads down. But that's a fact, that's a reality. And that's what happens with laws like this. And then no one wonders where we're going to fund our state budget. I'd say our neighbors are very happy to have a good, professional, business staff, which we're channeling into neighbouring countries with this kind of policy. But the vehemently ruling coalition is not concerned with and enacting such laws. That is why, of course, I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants a word? Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to join the predecessors. When we listened to the European Commissioner for Regional Development, he said there were about 26 million unemployed and 26 million small entrepreneurs in Europe. Everyone would hire one, but they wouldn't be unemployed anymore. In Slovenia, work is so burdened that, say, Slovakia pays €340 for a thousand euros in net wages and €730 for a thousand. In Slovenia we have the last press, 21,000 self-employed people living on the edge of poverty along with their family members. And we're raising the contribution rate. Instead of having every small entrepreneur re-employ, they forgive a lot. They close their activities because they are aware that they will not be able to operate for at least a few years, but those who are indebted and cannot close their activities and cannot receive social support. They're on the verge of poverty, and no one's helping them. Why are they? Because they are large creditors, and among the biggest debtors is the state. The bankruptcy managers as vultures stand on bankruptcy masses, don't pay subcontractors, and they just fall apart. No wonder everyone runs out to save their own skin and save their family members from poverty. That's why I won't support this marriage either.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-25-SDZ6-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we're voting on the law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 32. [[in favour of 49 votes in favour.]] [[Against 32.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 18th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday at 10 a.m. Just one more notification for the members and members of the European Union Affairs Committee. The meeting of the committee will continue in ten minutes in the large hall of Tomšičeva. And good-bye to everyone else.
