ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I apologize for the short delay in the obligation to start the session before the beginning of the session itself. Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, Mrs. Romana Tomc [[Between 17:00 and 22:00]] Mr. Marijan Pojbič and Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 32. On the day-to-day basis, this is for the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the consent to be supplemented by the representative of the State Audit Board for the revision of the procedures for the award of public contracts. Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures was submitted by the State Audit Commission to the National Assembly in agreement on the basis of Article 64(2) of the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures. For further explanation, I give the floor to the President of the State Audit Commission, Mr Borut Strundel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to everyone. The new law on legal protection in procurement procedures has ordered the State Audit Commission to take priority decisions on disputes arising from procurement procedures co-financed by the European Union. On this basis, the State Audit Commission also prepared a supplement to the Rules of Procedure, discussed it at its general meeting, adopted it there and then submitted it to the National Assembly for approval. We have also adopted the necessary internal acts to try to adapt our actions to the objectives pursued by the novels. Then, of course, there are human resources and financial constraints in which the State Audit Commission operates, but we have already informed the Committee and the competent ministry, so I will not repeat these arguments here. But I'd like to point out the following. The State Audit Commission is aware of the importance of public procurement for the smooth functioning of the State and local communities and is trying to ensure that the audit disputes are resolved as soon as possible. The PSC provides that the State Audit Commission should decide on the audit procedures within 15 working days, in exceptional cases, where challenging disputes are required when the appointment of an expert, expert and the like is necessary, that period may be extended by 15 working days. So there is a common deadline within which the State Audit Commission can decide on the dispute for 30 working days. Statistics show that the decision-making time for this year is on average about 14 working days per case. This deadline is substantially shorter than the time limits in which any body abroad is actually acting. The Ministry of Finance, which has prepared an analysis of the proposals of the novel ZPVPJN, has only found that, say, such disputes in Germany take place at the first stage of up to 7 weeks, then judicial protection is possible. In Hungary at the first stage up to 90 days, again with the possibility of judicial protection, in the Czech Republic 98 days at the first stage, 94 days at the second stage, in Latvia up to four years at the second stage and so on. In short, I argue that legal protection in audit procedures, as is the case with the State Audit Commission, is provided under the current regime within the shortest possible time limits in which it is even possible to ensure substantive treatment of the matter. However, it should be pointed out that the disputes arising from the procurement procedures are a matter of contentious disputes, whose assessment requires knowledge of domestic and European legislation – the practice of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union – and that these are decisions which must withstand not only the judgment of the parties involved in this procedure but later possible redress. You know that 13 disputes have been raised against or related to the decisions of the State Audit Commission, including disputes before the European Commission. The fact that we are doing well shows that none of these conflicts have been successful so far. In short, all the judgments issued concerning the work of the State Audit Commission were rejected. The next thing I would like to point out is because recently, of course, the issue of the effective use of European funds and the problems encountered in this regard has been mentioned for a reason. Only a few data relating to legal protection in procurement procedures. According to the Ministry of Finance, 34 000 or 34 000 public contracts were made in 2012. Of these, 5,000 were published on the public procurement portal or in the Official Journal of the European Union, meaning more medium or larger contracts. During the same period, around 500 disputes were raised before the State Audit Commission. This means that about half of all public contracts awarded in the Republic of Slovenia have been brought into conflict, or else 98.5% have been non-problemsome from this point of view. However, with regard to public contracts co-financed by the European Union, such contracts were cases 61 and about 9 per cent of the public contracts co-financed by EU funds, there was a dispute brought before the State Audit Commission. Here's another piece of information. In 2012, the State Audit Commission granted the application by cancelling the part, or the whole tender documentation or the whole procedure, or the decision to award the contract in 162 cases. This means in less than a third of the requirements that it has addressed, again, even if we are only looking at procurement procedures that were co-financing from EU funds, this percentage is the same. Such orders, where irregularities were found, were less than a third. This means that the impact of the decision-making of the State Audit Commission, or even the legal protection system we have, was such that it reflected in four tenths of one percent of all public contracts awarded in the Republic of Slovenia in 2012 or in less than 3 percent of those contracts co-financed by the European Union. This shows that the issue of efficient European resource utilisation is much more complex than it has been seen in recent times and that the contribution of legal protection to the effectiveness of European resource absorption is very small. The fact is that the State Audit Commission repeals the procurement procedure when it detects an irregular, illegal conduct. The fact is also that the existence of illegal practices is identified by other bodies, the Office for Budgetary Control, including the European Court of Justice, which finds that 20 per cent [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] as a result of serious infringements in public procurement, as well as errors arising out of public procurement, which also stems from the Government's action plan for efficient pumping, such as in the preparation of projects. [[…]] Just a final thought. We are aware of the importance of effective public procurement over the importance of effective use of European funds, and for this reason we also support the initiative presented by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to include this topic in one of the next meetings, because we certainly support any serious effort towards improving the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The Rules of Procedure considered the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and also drafted a proposal for a decision on consent. I therefore give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the proposal further.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and a very nice greeting to everyone! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 22nd session 5. 11. 2013 was treated as a parent labour body by the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 64(2) of the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures on 19. 9. 2013 submitted by the State Audit Commission. The examination of the relevant act on the Committee was carried out on the basis of Article 112 and 169 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall give its consent to the Rules of Procedure or to the Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission by a decision, following the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the adoption of such a decision as the Act of the National Assembly. The Committee received the following materials: the first application for consent to the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission of 19. 9. 2013, by which the State Audit Commission, pursuant to Article 64 of the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures, has adopted such a supplement at its 11th meeting. 9. intervenes in the procedure for obtaining the consent of the National Assembly. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was also forwarded, as well as additional material, the proposal for a decision on consent of 4. 11. 2013 The Legal and Legislative Service had no comments. The meeting was attended by the President of the State Audit Commission, the representative of the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. The President of the State Audit stressed that, in this July, the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures was upgraded by Article 37a, which provides that requests for revision, which identify infringements in procurement procedures co-financed by European funds, are to be decided prioritised by the State Audit Board. At the same time, the audit committee must also harmonise its rules of procedure within three months of the implementation of the Law on Legal Protection. After a short discussion, the Committee adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly that it should adopt a decision supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission to revise the procedures for the award of public contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u6	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the decision by which we agree to amend or supplement the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures. As we have already heard several times, it is a matter of harmonising the rules of procedure with the amendment of the law adopted this year and allowing the State Audit Commission to take a priority decision on audit requests for infringements in procurement procedures co-financed by European funds. If everything were as ideal as the representative of the State Audit Commission or its President had said, then this novelty would probably not be necessary and the audit procedures for the award of public contracts and audit requests would also be up to date and up to date in case European funds are used. Obviously, the State Audit Commission is overwhelmed with work in these audits and, as it has also pointed out, in view of the repeated claims of financial and human resources malnutrition, of course, there has been no effectiveness in reviewing these issues related to the use of European funds and there have been problems or even possible lack of European funds due to audits. We know some reverberating cases, the case of a Polish carriage, including the case of electronic tolling for freight vehicles. In short, there are some examples where we know that repeated audits or problems of this nature have also endangered the implementation of these projects and the effective use of European funds. It is also difficult to avoid this rule of procedure with regard to European funds, because this rule of procedure has been amended precisely because we see that the current government is in a bit of a jam. We are also addressing the issue of effective drawing on this financial perspective at the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, as well as preparations for a new financial perspective. In fact, I am appalled by the Ministry's information that there will be no call for a new financial perspective in the coming year – says 2014 – for the new financial perspective. When we talk about these key projects, European funds will be drawn from the Social Fund, which is a kind of continuity of drawing so far, but some new serious projects will not actually be supported because the ministry cannot operationally tackle key strategic documents in this area. This is said, in addition to the revisions, there are many and more reasons for ineffective pumping, but most of all the inefficiency of both the policy and the administration in charge of this. We are even hearing that a government service subordinated to the Government will now be set up to draw on European funds. In short, again some organizational changes that are likely to cause further cramps in all of this. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we call on the Government to do its utmost to draw on the current financial perspective 100% and to launch calls as soon as possible in the coming year from a new financial perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u8	Respected and respected! For reasons that have already been fully presented, the Group of Social Democrats will support the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The most recent amendment to the Law on Legal Protection in the procurement procedures that we have dealt with in the National Assembly in July this year following an emergency procedure has provided for a new Article 37a to be adopted in the legal matter, which provides that the audit requests for infringements in the procurement procedures co-financed by European funds shall give priority to the decision of the State Audit Commission. A provision has also been adopted to bring the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission into line with the provisions of this amendment within a period of three months. Content of the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procedures for the award of public contracts is followed by the above mentioned legal novelties. A new paragraph 22a is added to the Rules of Procedure setting out the order in which matters are dealt with. In accordance with that provision of the Rules of Procedure, the State Audit Commission will give priority to matters for which the law so provides. The other matters will be dealt with as a rule in the order in which they come. Today's revision of the Rules of Procedure changes the functioning of the State Audit Commission in the revision of procurement procedures. We must be aware that the purpose of legal protection in these proceedings is to ensure that all tenderers have the opportunity to obtain a public contract at their source under the same conditions. We must also be aware of the increase in the case of the State Audit Commission, and it is therefore necessary to set out the priorities that this Commission will give priority to. Since public procurement co-financed by European funds is a rule for contracts of higher value, with agreed drawing dynamics, it is essential that infringements are detected in the process of selecting suppliers or operators as quickly as possible, thus helping to ensure that public procurement is swift and effective, and thus making it easier and more efficient to draw on the resources of the European Union. We could say that this smaller "pretty supplement" in the Rules of Procedure is not only the result of coordination with the new Law on Legal Protection in procurement procedures, but even more so indicates steps towards major surgical interventions that will need to be taken in the field of public procurement in order to achieve faster and more effective public procurement, and consequently more efficient absorption of funds from the European Union. As we are aware of the importance of drawing on European funds, as well as of our support for faster and more effective public procurement, we will in the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code agree to complement the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable Minister, Honourable President of the State Audit Commission, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! Let me begin by saying that there are no concerns in the Slovenian People's Party's Group regarding the proposed Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures. It is certainly reasonable and right that the State Audit Commission should deal with matters in the order in which it receives the same priority issues. However, there is no way to overlook the fact that the cause of the problem needs to be solved, not just to heal the consequences. Let us therefore remind the Finance Ministry of the necessary simplification of the procurement procedures, not just the part of the procedures led by the State Audit Commission. We have pointed out several times in this place that all procurement procedures need to be simplified, made more transparent and, above all, to ensure a proper balance between the protection of unchosen tenderers, investor protection and the protection of public interest. It is probably not in this Chamber, which would not have known at least one of the infamous cases of speculation, abuse and corruption in procurement procedures; in procedures that we have tried several times in the National Assembly to amend and supplement, but each time they are even more complicated, they are even more prolonged, but they have become nothing less expensive and no less corrupt; and vice versa. In doing so, I will only remind you of Dr Gantar's recent statement of resignation, where these dilemmas are also clearly addressed. I hope that we have all heard what he has said; that is, by eliminating corruption in health care and throughout the country, we could solve our financial problems. Of course, in health care, it is not just corruption in construction. There are also problems with public procurement of equipment and medicines and similar problems across the public sector. The job's not easy. On the one hand, prevention of corruption, and on the other hand, investment and supply procedures must be implemented as quickly, as possible, as qualitatively and at an acceptable price. This problem also arises in the construction of roads. In recent times, we have been able to monitor in the media the serious controversy about the construction of the diocese, which my colleague has already mentioned in front of me, namely the Polish bypass. The construction of this road started in 2009, and the bankruptcy of SCT continued with Primorje and after the bankruptcy of Primorje the invitation to tender – but there is still no result! Now two unchosen operators have complained again, so that we will easily lose the European funds for this carousel, which the country has acquired at a rate of 27 million euros, but will not. They will remain in Brussels if the carrier is not selected by the end of this year. Once again, everything depends on the State Audit Commission, how quickly it will decide and how it will decide. However, the State Audit Commission is swamped with work, due to the procedural rules that the non-selective tenderers are allowed to have in place by the rules in force, because they cannot be seen out of the entire stacks of complaints. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the respected Government, we are losing European funds because of poor regulations. This is how we lose our investments, lose our country, lose our economy, and thus lose our citizens. We're losing everyone, actually. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, I once again call on the Government, again asking the Minister of Finance to prepare a new Public Procurement Act as soon as possible to shorten these endless procedures, simplify them and prevent corruption in these procedures. We know that in other countries they also have these procedures. Perhaps it would indicate where this area was effectively resolved, and the law would be copied from among them. If we have an effective marriage, the State Audit Commission will have less work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on an agreement to the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission, we will decide today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on changes and additions to the law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. The draft law was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Senk Plicanič, Minister of Justice, for further presentation or explanation of the bill. Here you go, Dr. Lulcanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u14	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you an important change to the law on financial transactions and so on, to short-term insolvency law. As you know, the main reason for this important and relatively large change is the great debt, in fact over indebtedness, of Slovenian companies, which, as we know, is also one of the main barriers to economic growth, one of the main obstacles that prevents us from making a more effective breakthrough from the crisis we are in. Most creditors are banks, so it was essential to have a law, an important change to that law, which will enable over-indebted Slovenian companies and their creditors, creditors, in particular banks, to be able to repay quickly and effectively. The blame is this main objective that we are pursuing. Why are we pursuing this goal? Why it is important that the bank be rehabilitated and the banks of Slovenia be set up to do what the banks are supposed to do, that is to say, to lend to businesses and the population. So, why is this assignment so important? Because companies that are so burdened with debts are practically in the dead course, they can't go ahead, they have millstones around their neck in the form of debts, and if we want to enable so many Slovenian companies – different data are, 20, 30, 40 thousand Slovenian companies are in debt – to move forward to the Slovenian economy, then it is absolutely necessary to make legislation available to them, to prepare legislation that will allow them a quick and effective debt. This debt is important, not the purpose itself, but it is important that companies continue to work, as it is said, if not fully, at least their healthy parts, called healthy cores, i.e. those parts of companies that are linked to that part of the business activity that have a market perspective to survive. Of course, this is directly linked to saving and maintaining the jobs of our employees, our citizens and citizens in all these companies, which I think is the goal of each government, whether it is left or right. Let me also say that it would be significantly different if such a law, such as the change of law that the Government proposes for admission, were to have in ancient times. Many years ago, we should have such a law, and then a number of companies, which had already failed, would have different possibilities for survival. Let me tell you one more thing about how this marriage came about. Four to five months of intensive professional and political work are behind us. Practically everyone in Slovenia, either as lawyers or as economists, has been involved in the drafting of the law, is in control of this area from practice and so on. I've included all the stakeholders involved. This is a whole bunch of chambers, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Association of Banks, Bank of Slovenia and so on, so that I do not list all stakeholders. Everyone has cooperated, and with everyone except the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, this law is harmonised. In the last few days, I have also heard that the Management Association resents certain solutions in marriage. At the same time, let me say that I think that this last one is not the most legitimate criticism, because there are or are still many people in it who are responsible for this situation in which Slovenia is and which we are solving with this law. Well, it's consistent with everyone else. Let me also say that they have cooperated intensively in the law, helped and, of course, coordinated with them, including the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Development Bank and, of course, the European Commission itself. It is coordinated with all of them, in particular intensively and very effectively assisted by the International Monetary Fund. Let me also say that this is also linked to the implementation of one of the nine recommendations made by the European Commission to the Slovenian Government this spring. The second was to shorten the proceedings – the second of the nine relating to the Ministry of Justice was to shorten the proceedings. We have also successfully implemented this, together with the judiciary, and in this way have complied with both recommendations made by the Commission to the Government and related to our ministry. That is why, of course, I ask you to support the proposed law. Let me just say this in the end, it's going to be important. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u16	Your Honor! A very nice welcome to all on behalf of the Justice Committee, which discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination at its 31st emergency meeting on 18 and 19 November this year. In his explanation, the representative stressed that the aim of the law is to recover as quickly as possible and to grow economically, taking into account some of the specificities of the Slovenian economy and the environment in which the economy operates. In the debate, however, the most time was spent on the opposition's proposal, in which it proposed that the procedures provided for in this law could also be initiated on the proposal of creditors, with this proposal being rejected by the Administration, but in this case, if the proposal turned out to be justified, it would also be responsible for its conduct. This proposal was not adopted later, but 24 other amendments were adopted, mainly of a legal nature, and the approved text of the law as a whole. In addition, due to the scope and complexity of this act, the law in its entirety, including this amendment, if the National Assembly approves this amendment in the adopted text, has also proposed to our committee an additional decision to the National Assembly, in order to enable the National Assembly to decide that the Legislative and Legal Service will draw up an officially consolidated text of the law. This confirmed the text of the law at the second stage of the emergency procedure on the Committee and invited the National Assembly to adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u18	Respected and respected! In opening, let me say that the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a new law on financial transactions and insolvency procedures. Slovenia is in a delicate position, but at the same time we must find that the Slovenian government holds this position firmly in hand and, despite the many concerns that often fill this hall, we can today find that Slovenia's position and credibility are improving. A good week ago in this Chamber, we heard a lot about debt, billions and half of bonds and criticisms that have actually become a backup point when they're interpreting against the finance minister. Today, it appears that the constituency voted, the budget adopted and the positive assessments of the European Commission and other institutions have created a sufficiently optimistic environment, so that foreign press and foreign analysts reiterate that they believe that Slovenia will avoid the request for assistance both within the European stabilisation mechanism and the possibility of a state debt deal. This strengthens us in the belief that the necessary measures must be pursued with confidence and determination. Inside this, insolvency law has an extremely important place. The problem of over-indebtedness is not only a challenge to the resolution of the banking system, but also to the urgent changes that we need to make in order to allow systemic assumptions for the most effective deleveraging of our economy. We do not hide the fact that we have been allies of the original version of the Systemic Longevity Act, but we accept the fact that due to the duality in insolvency proceedings it has actually introduced, the law has encountered a number of obstacles, including serious professional concerns. We will therefore today support a similar attempt in Slovenia to implement in the most effective way what they know in the United States as the so-called Chapter 11 as the preventive restructuring process, where the key initiative is that of the indebted debtor of the financial institution, namely the banks, and in the hands of the scissors and the canvas, to take control of the debtor by means of the restructuring process and thus to repay it. We trust the Social Democrats with the arguments of both the Government and the Bank of Slovenia and some international institutions that this will be an effective way of restructuring for the most acute cases. In the debate on the Committee itself, as a parent working body, as well as in the debate in the section of the professional public, there have been some challenges that we will certainly open up today under the amendments tabled, and then we will present our views on these issues as well. It remains undeniable, however, that Slovenia must ensure a fair and effective restructuring of the economy here with a more effective framework. Social Democrats believe that there are not even many constitutional dilemmas on this issue. We believe that capital, which is at zero or even capital under this point, is already negative, in fact economically, not necessarily legally, no longer has the legitimacy of ownership and that at that time the economic owners are already its creditors. Social Democrats hope that this novel will also be recognised through effective legal restructuring procedures. However, we must admit that, because of the complexity of the entire insolvency law, it is legitimate to expect that work on this matter at the normative level should not be stopped, but that the Ministry of Justice, together with the professional institutions, insists on this work and, as soon as possible, introduces a comprehensive new law that will simplify the complex procedures, introduces a greater initiative in the proceedings on the part of the creditors and thus allows for overindebtedness as a prerequisite for recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you, President. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues! The Financial Business Act, insolvency procedures and forced termination of this novel and these solutions will no longer be just a graveger's law, as we have been accustomed to. On the contrary, this will become a law that will enable important companies to survive in the Republic of Slovenia and thus preserve many jobs, preserve suppliers associated with these companies, preserve processes, know-how and so on in these companies. It brings and regulates an important matter and I would like to talk about it at this point, this is a phase before, this is a phase of systemic debt or a phase of preventive financial restructuring. What does this systemic extension actually bring? The solution follows the full public interest, which is reflected in the preservation of jobs and may depend on this new law whether we still have jobs tomorrow, whether we still have jobs or not. Companies need to reduce their debt, which is one of the highest in Europe in order to breathe, invest, employment. Such financial restructuring is possible only if it is carried out before the company becomes actually insolvency. So when a serious threat arises and within one year this danger is also threatening. Financial restructuring only affects financial creditors, not suppliers, not workers who are not harmed in this particular case. Of course, of course, suppliers may enter into the agreement, of course, at the invitation of financial creditors. In each insolvency procedure, including in the case of financial restructuring, owners lose first and lose everything if any creditor does not receive the full payment. The procedure shall be initiated at the request of the debtor with the consent of the creditors with 30 per cent of the sum of all financial claims and the procedure voted shall have a 75 per cent effect only on creditors with financial claims. Such an agreement, we are talking about an agreement, is confirmed by the court. Next. It sharpens the responsibility of owners, supervisory boards and administrations in the event that, at this stage, before that stage, the necessary care is abandoned and then the creditors lose even more and the damage is caused in the enforcement or bankruptcy proceedings. In this procedure, the Court shall select the financial restructuring manager at its own discretion, the best staff, and shall inform the Bank of Slovenia of the procedure. The Bank of Slovenia is informed of this procedure because it is a matter of great public interest. Certain questions arise and, in fact, it is correct to offer the right answers. Why is this institute limited only to medium-sized and large enterprises? Since the public interest is particularly pronounced after the preservation of these companies, we have an internationally comparable minimum percentage of exactly large and medium-sized enterprises, because the courts are not adequately qualified to drive financial restructuring for all other economic operators, or even personal bankruptcys, because these are extremely difficult procedures and because this moment for micro and small enterprises is a simplified enforcement settlement. Why would the management of the company even propose an extension, if the owners are losing, is the next thought. As creditors will be able to prosecute them for failing to initiate this procedure when conditions have arisen and the owners will lose at least at the time of the investigation and most in the event of forced settlement and bankruptcy. For years, the economy has been waiting for such a solution in the law and this amendment should be one of these legal solutions, one of the necessary measures to come out of the crisis. The Parliamentary Group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you for your word and welcome, everyone! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have long been expecting some of the key laws promised by the new government in the area of consolidation of public finances, rehabilitation of banks and a new start-up of the economy. One of these key laws is here today. Despite the fact that a special law on the systemic extension of the economy has been prepared at the Ministry for a long time, it was clear that it was more reasonable to redefine the existing so-called insolvency law. So far, we have no comments in the Slovenian People's Party. If the Minister of Justice considers it more reasonable to supplement the existing law, he probably has good and important reasons for doing so. Our economy is, as we all know, indebted to the neck, breathing on gills and here is the only thing that counts, quick and effective help. Oxygen is needed, as they were expected to do at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which, in addition to banks, participated in the preparation of the novel in the group and are one of the few that support it despite serious concerns. Since it is so important for the future fate of the real sector and thus the country, we have followed with interest the different and, inter alia, very critical responses of the professional public, various associations and also the media to the proposed measures. The bill, which, interestingly, has been drafted in just a few days by external members of the Ministry of Justice under the guidance of the lawyer Jadk, contains many complex decisions and there is a fear that only a few of those who will have to apply it will understand it. At the time of public debate on this law, we have not been able to obtain satisfactory arguments from the lawmakers concerning certain provisions of the law; from why financial creditors are favoured, not from suppliers, why only large and medium-sized enterprises, but not from those who will benefit from this law and what kind of measures can be included in the preventive restructuring scheme. In particular, it is not clear how new banks who do not already know what they would do with business ownership, but have even less knowledge of how to manage companies in which claims are to be converted into shares. If we add to this the fact that at least domestic banks are incapacitated to transfer bad claims to a bad bank and to recapitalisation, we very seriously ask ourselves whether this sixth amendment of the law will bring solutions in practice or only new 84 articles written in such a complex language that even legal professions are incomprehensible. Whether this novelty of insolvency law will significantly reduce the number of critically indebted companies – we hear that there are about 10,000 of them – or whether we will soon find that they are on the other hand holding warnings that they would know, instead of healing companies, to increase the public debt that taxpayers will pay again. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that the Minister with the proposed novel has received so much light from the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. However, we also cannot go beyond the fact that the inefficiency and inoperability of the new law, with broken arguments, is pointed out by practically the entire professional public. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the time for the preparation of a quality proposal for a new insolvency law was more than enough, and we also believe that a broader consensus on the appropriateness of the measures would be expected for such an important law, and not, as is now the case, treatment by emergency procedure. In our opinion, a whole series of provisions have questionable consequences and there is no concrete answer to the most important question about actual efficiency, but it has provided. Your Honor! You have not convinced the Members of the Slovenian People's Party that this law will indeed ensure a comprehensive and healthy system-wide extension of the economy, so it will not receive our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the delegation of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, everyone! In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the novelties of the Financial Business Act, and so on, are appropriate and essential for the implementation of more efficient procedures and the maintenance of healthy cores in exhausted companies. The solutions proposed include the expansion and upgrading of procedures and instruments to ensure a more efficient restructuring of our companies, in particular insolvent companies that are still able to operate successfully in the long term under the debt reprogramming scenario. According to our behaviour, the novel on this envisaged restructuring process introduces a somewhat balanced and reasonable agreement on the interests of the debtors and their creditors. In this way, creditors will be able to take over the management of the debtor and the firm will need to agree with the creditors in a forced settlement with unrealistic financial restructuring plans. The conditions we are in today are very uncertain. The problem of over-indebtedness is already being addressed by many domestic companies, who are trying to eliminate insolvency due to difficulties and thus forcible settlement or bankruptcy due to problems with financial creditors, that is, banks. In doing so, suppliers are in a poor position due to unsecured claims. And it is precisely the introduction of the pre-insolvency procedure that allows the company to acquire in time a financial restructuring agreement with banks, i.e. an agreement on the reprogramming of loans. The banks are thus prepared to provide new funds in this process and, in the event of subsequent forced settlement or bankruptcy, the first payment would also be made. The solutions proposed in the enforcement procedure are also appropriate because they also apply to undertakings already in those procedures. All together, it points to a carefully coordinated and planned repurchase of loans or a so-called financial restructuring plan that requires a time limit on compliance with agreed commitments. We all know that when the cash flow falls for companies, the costs of financing the loans leased from the past are rising, often unsecured creditors, suppliers take the shortest. That is why it is still more important for the debtor to remain a functioning company than to end up in bankruptcy. And it is precisely after this change in legislation that you could agree to change the restructuring plan, which is only allowed for medium and large companies. Moreover, the consent of creditors should be reached for more than half of all claims. In the event that we have only unsecured creditors in the event of a forced settlement, the change in the plan should be agreed by the secured creditors. So any change to the plan requires more than half of the creditors to agree. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that both the economic and social picture of Slovenia will improve at least in the sense that such proposed financial restructuring tools will result in economic growth and jobs being revived. We certainly welcome the well-prepared solutions of all those involved, including at the international European level, by which we, of course, expect the earliest implementation in practice. We are pleased with the modeled law in the Group because we expect to finally stop the problem of corporate over-indebtedness and thereby enable the financial stabilisation of institutions and markets. The DeSUS Group will support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u26	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! Slovenia is in a deep crisis and this crisis further deepens the chaos in the Slovenian banking system and the indebtedness of Slovenian companies. This law, which is in front of us today, is supposed to help us dispossess Slovenian companies and thus improve the economic situation. In New Slovenia, given the complexity of this law, we really doubt that this will happen. The matter governed by the proposed amendment of the law is difficult and therefore the way in which the law is adopted is, by emergency procedure, completely inappropriate, according to our assessment. The bill should be considered on a regular basis and take into account the wider professional and interested public when preparing the law. Not only is the law demanding, but it is also extremely complex from a nominal point of view. We were also reminded of this fact by the Law-Legal Service. Given that it will be used by a wider range of business operators, we rightly expect that this law should be very simple and simple, as you know what the basic concept of legislation is, that every law must be so clear and simple that it is understood by every housewife in every Slovenian village. Unfortunately, this is not the case with this law; this law is hard to understand and explained by even a number of lawyers. We are therefore convinced that, due to the complexity of the composition of this law, there will be a number of delays in the procedures, the delays in the investment of legal remedies, and finally that this law will even prolong insolvency proceedings. This may be avoided if we prepare a clearer marriage text. At the opening presentation of the proposal for an amendment to the insolvency law, the Minister of Justice presented the procedure for drafting a legal proposal. A number of stakeholders were involved, but he also admitted that this law did not include the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises, which we consider to be a mistake. This is wrong, especially since Slovenia is represented by a number of small businesses, which would have been entitled to participate in the drafting of this law. In the context of corporate deleveraging, the concept of the bill will be the most relevant to these small businesses, micro-enterprises, and independent entrepreneurs. That is why we should cooperate through our representatives in the drafting of this law. If we also touch a little on the concrete changes proposed by the novels. The first is certainly the introduction of pre-insolvency proceedings as a new type of judicial procedure. This procedure is intended for medium and large companies which estimate that within one year they will become insolvent and will be able to propose a preventive restructuring procedure. By means of a financial restructuring agreement, they will prevent the emergence of future insolvency. This is what the law says, and in New Slovenia we believe that the round of companies for the introduction of pre-insolvency procedures should be broader and should also include companies and small businesses. There is no rational reason why these procedures are limited only to medium and large companies, since we all know that the foundations or cores of the Slovenian economy are very small businesses, independent entrepreneurs. And if they can blame you and if they can make progress, then the Slovenian economy will make progress. Since this law does not effectively solve the problems and problems of these smallest entrepreneurs and businesses, in Nova Slovenije we estimate that it will not contribute significantly to the deleveraging of the Slovenian economy. However, another important novelty introduced in the amendment of the law is the abolition of the minimum amount of creditors' payments and the maximum time limit in the enforcement procedures. In New Slovenia, we do not support this proposed solution in law. In this way, the path to abuse this institution is being reopened in a way that will delay the process of forced settlement in a way that will result in damage to the creditors of insolvency companies. Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Alojsa Jerič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! The novelty, which all stakeholders already look forward to, is a key step in relaunching the economy and maintaining the healthy cores of businesses and maintaining jobs. Notwithstanding the fact that it is extremely difficult matter and that it is imperative to approach a completely new law that will be simpler, more modern and particularly clear and understandable, we are all aware that we are in a situation where there is a rapid but deliberate need for action. The fact is that the biggest problem of Slovenian companies is the alarming debt, over-indebtedness in fact, and that an immediate approach to the deleveraging of the economy is needed. The high indebtedness of companies is also seen as a high exposure to the banking system. So we are in a spiral, because banks on the one hand cannot provide additional capital to the economy and the economy cannot recover and get rid of the spasm in which it is located. And the longer this problem is resolved, the more indebtedness is spread to all spheres of the economy. However, logic is simple: more than business failures, it is harder to ensure the stability of public finances, less companies, less tax inflows, less tax inflows, more difficult to provide a social and solidarity country. The fact is that the average ratio between debt and equity is 145 per cent with us, while the European average is 103 per cent. According to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, as many as 10,000 companies in Slovenia are critically indebted. Without fast and, in particular, transparent procedures that will allow companies to be restructured both financially, business and ownershipally, we all know where these companies will end; in bankruptcy, which means the end of the business, the end of jobs and the end of the hope for creditors that their claims will be paid. The proposed novelty will allow for effective restructuring of businesses both within the framework of the compulsory settlement and in cases where insolvency has not yet occurred at all, but there is a fear that this will happen within one year. Under insolvency proceedings, the enforcement procedure is the only way to preserve the company's healthy core and maintain existing jobs. The amendment thus introduces the principle of absolute advantage also in the enforcement procedure, and the principle lays down the order, i.e. the advantage of payment of claims. In order to implement this principle, claims shall be classified in classes according to the priority payment entitlement criterion included. At the same time, specific rules on the simplified reduction of core capital are also laid down to ensure consistent implementation of the principle that so far the shareholders of the debtor can only retain such a share in the company as would have been kept in bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. after the payment of all creditors. Most likely, however, the most important novelty is the introduction of a preventive restructuring procedure which will allow for the conclusion of agreements on the financial restructuring of large and medium-sized companies, one year before insolvency. This is the moment that allows creditors to pay higher financial claims on the one hand and the most effective interpretation exercise on the other. With the agreement to be concluded by banks and businesses in this process, it will be possible to maintain existing jobs and maintain the healthy core of the company. In order for these procedures to be effective, it will be imperative, once the law is in force, that all involved take an appropriate approach to the rescue and dispossession of businesses. Given that the proposal has been prepared in cooperation with the widest possible range of participants supporting the proposal, we believe that the proposed solutions will also come to life in practice. We have waited a long time for the novelty ahead of us, as it represents a very important step in relaunching the economy. The novelty enables a rapid and efficient system-wide extension of businesses, thus providing a real opportunity for economic recovery and for preserving existing jobs in the first phase and creating new jobs in the second stage. Of course, the proposed solutions on the other hand are also a key element in the successful resolution of the banking system. In Positive Slovenia, we will therefore support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Minister! The only thing I can say in this bill is that the mountain was shaking and the mouse was born. Thus, the current coalition has promised one of the key measures to revive economic activity – the systemic extension of businesses. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcomed this purpose because we agree that over indebtedness of Slovenian companies is a key problem for opening new jobs, for business growth and, last but not least, for business operations. In short, the detection of the problem was real and we welcome it. Of course, we were looking forward to concrete solutions for how the government would deal with this or with what instruments it would accomplish. And we have seen this novelty of insolvency legislation, which, according to our assessment, brings some positive changes in terms of simplification of procedures, in the sense of, say, a more effective settlement. Of course, we have a fundamental reflection on the effectiveness of this key instrument of this preventive restructuring as a pre-insolvency procedure in terms of corporate deleveraging. Why? For the first time, because this option has only been foreseen by the Government for a large minority of companies, this is only for large and medium-sized companies, small companies, independent entrepreneurs cannot even get in the way of this pre-involved preventive restructuring. This is said to be the case if a small enterprise finds that it is over-indebted, so the debtor finds that he would like to fix the business with 40 employees, that is still a small company, that he cannot solve this path at all. In Slovenia we have a large majority of small, micro- and espies companies, and this pre-insolvency procedure does not apply. That's the first reason. The second reason is that only the debtor can give the initiative for this preventive restructuring, but we know that the debtor already has a bunch of instruments and tools to solve his business when he sees problems coming. This can, of course, be done in out-of-court cases, as well as in agreement with creditors, if the problem is detected in due time, if it wants to solve it. And the key problem is the over-indebtedness that the debtors have been delaying for too long through business resolution procedures and that is why we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party that preventive restructuring can also be initiated on the proposal of creditors. That's what this debtor owes them. And if the debtor refuses such an initiative by the creditor, he is also responsible. I think that this is also a key problem; that in the responsibility of the debtors and those in debt and overindebted, there is also a key or key reason for corporate overindebtedness. In this context, we lack effective solutions, greater responsibility on the part of corporate administrations or debtors to avoid insolvency proceedings or to avoid difficulties in repaying debt from indebted undertakings. The third reason is also very important that financial creditors are not part of the state. Of course, banks will participate in preventive financial restructuring, while the State in charge of claims on taxes paid, contributions and the like is, of course, not a mandatory creditor who is obliged to participate in this preventive restructuring. Your Honor! Last but not least, which bank will have the courage in the given situation to sign part of its claims to the creditor in the pre-insolvency process if we know how inactive banks are in the resolution of over-indebted companies. Today they are completely passive and we do not believe that this legal option will now become active and hope that in the pre-insolvency process part of their claims to the debtor. That is why we will also bind support for this law or non-support to the adoption of the amendments, which we are proposing in the context of the comments I have mentioned. Otherwise, we will be closely monitored for the implementation of this law and in one year you will see that we were right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the four amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the coalition. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u32	Respected and respected! If you look at the recommendations made by the European Commission when it assesses Slovenia's progress in the excessive deficit process and assesses the adopted budget rebalancing for 2014, we can find that two commitments or two key commitments remain unrealised from the major challenges that Slovenia must face and are still fully in its hands at the moment. The first is the effective management of state assets through the Slovenian State Holding Act and the second is an effective restructuring and debt procedure. We are not only reminded of this by the European Commission, but also by a number of other international institutions. In the views of some parliamentary groups, it was possible to conclude that this is not a decisive step, because it does not provide similar preventive restructuring procedures for small companies as well; and indeed, the vast majority of Slovenian companies are micro-enterprises, and that on the other hand it is a matter for some cosmetic changes to the existing regime. The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 4 actually refer to a legitimate and logical requirement that the preventive restructuring process may be initiated by the creditor and not only by the debtor. It's about the little ones first. We have already significantly facilitated the access of small enterprises to the so-called simplified enforcement settlement procedure in the so-called amendments to the Financial Business Act and insolvency proceedings. This procedure is significantly simplified compared to the classic regime of forced settlement and is intended as an institute for micro and small enterprises to effectively achieve the state of indebtedness or to substantially reduce the amount of debt that burdens their capital adequacy and, assuming that an appropriate insolvency procedure such as a compulsory settlement does not take place, is very likely to force them into bankruptcy. This is the first answer to this thesis that the law does not respond to the challenge faced by small businesses, and the reason for this is that in existing legislation this institution already has and is enforced. On the other hand, we need to find out that I am not saying that there is no problem, Mr. Vizjak, please do not reinterpret my words in any other way than they were told. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u33	Well, Mr. Matevž, you have the floor, because then Mr. Vizjak will have the floor. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u34	I do believe that Mr Vizjak will respond to these words. It should be borne in mind that this link between financial institutions, i.e. Slovenian banks and the economy, is not an extremely strong problem, the problem of banks is not an isolated problem, but is, of course, a consequence of overindebtedness in the economy and given the acute nature of this problem, which is largely pointed out by some articles published in these days, placed the burden on taxpayers that very clear mechanisms must be put in place here, in what way an extension can be achieved. Here I would like to draw a broader picture of the scenario that this novel brings along with other measures. We cannot solve the problem of the resolution of the banking system in isolation, only through measures to be taken by banks if we do not parallelly allow appropriate mechanisms for the extension of the economy to take place here. In banks, despite the fact that we opposed this recipe at the time, because we understand the need for continuity of measures, we now understand that just before the transfer of bad investments to the Bank's Claims Management Company starts, and we expect that within two weeks, it will be said that after the results of the stress tests on December 13th will be published, there will be no obstacles to starting the transfer process. With the parallel recapitalisation of banks, i.e. improved capital adequacy, the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Jazbec expects that the capitalisation and capital adequacy of Slovenian banks will in fact be more appropriate than the European average. In this way, banks will be able to access, under significantly more favourable conditions, resources in the interbank market, including the need to refinance and restructure the claims they have on economic operators. Here, this may be a key point to the situation where a bank with access to resources will be allowed to respond adequately to its debtor without being sunk as an economic entity. Therefore, this novelty allows financial institutions, a very narrow circle of creditors, which, given the extent of their claims, have an absolutely dominant position in the problem, in agreement with the debtor, to obtain an extension in a way that makes these financial institutions proportionate to their claims also to the owners of an undertaking that can be concluded to become insolvency soon. Above all, through the evaluation system, I think there are enough safeguards in the law to prevent abuse. However, if we know a little about the situation on the ground, we can see that companies are livingly interested in reaching agreement with banks today. With this mechanism, banks will come to the point of, and at the end of, some systemic coercion, which is also linked to the transfer of bad investments, to the extent that they are benevolent to such a debtor and seek to adopt an appropriate agreement. What comforts us – and don't forget that we have also stressed in our position that we have assessed the Systemic Longevity Act as perhaps even a better step than what we have before us today, but because of the fact that, as an absolute new one, the introduction of a parallel debt system actually opens up a number of new technical issues, we finally agreed to the the thesis and the argument of the section that the novelties under a single law are more appropriate in this regard. I would not object to the fact that the Ministry of Justice, which led to the preparation of this novel, has made a great deal of effort, which we can measure over a period of more than one year, in order to further develop a process which I think is still needed, a whole new law that will simplify many solutions within this and, on the other hand, extend the initiative to other institutions. Why do I believe that this option should be maintained for financial institutions so far? First of all, because they are the most massive, because they are most valuable and by number of procedures, because it is clearly understandable that suppliers, such as equipment, the means needed by the debtor to continue production, that these are vital to life, and that here, too, the debtor is obliged to maintain an adequate position towards suppliers, both by economic and legal logic of the system introduced today by this novelty, a sufficient number of fuses. Of course, in the Slovenian version of bankruptcy we can witness many stories. Many in this hall liked to talk about bankruptcy administrators, their fat prizes, and similar things. Here, too, I am convinced that the system of strengthening institutes has protected that such stories are being prevented, but at the same time it seems to me that this was one of those points where, due to the excellence of such matters, we have gladly forgotten the systemic side of the thing that needs to be regulated. Social Democrats will insist on coalition solutions in relation to this law, including those that may be the most painful in the public now, and point to the proposed amendment to Article 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister, Dr. Shadow Plitschani.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! It seemed important to me at this point to say a few words that I could not say after that opening part because I was running out of time. First of all, with regard to the comment made by my colleague Visiak about the shaking of the mountain and the birth of a mouse, a mouse. Let me say that I would really like to have something else on the table to have a brand-new, simple one, for everyone, every household to understand the law, even though I am alone and everyone who has defeated me in this, to invest all the energy we have, and we have not succeeded for various reasons, which does not mean that the mouse was born. I'm going to explain this for a little while. So it is necessary to take into account the actual situation we have in Slovenia. First of all, the actual situation in the economy – I talked about this in the introductions, which is what my colleague Frangež talked about. We had to take that into account. What is the actual situation in the Slovenian economy, not some abstract state and what would be nice, but what we have as a problem and this problem needs to be solved. When I think we had to take into account the actual situation, I also mean that we had to take the situation into account in court. If we are to have a law such as Chapter 11, such as the proposed Systemic Dispension Act, the court should have a significantly greater role to play in this regard than the proposed law does. I would like to have it, too, but we need to know that we have 15 judges and judges in Slovenia dealing with these proceedings; the companies are 10, 20, 30 000, and the problem needs to be solved quickly. You can count this very quickly, that it is simply not feasible. In short, we had to take into account the actual capabilities of the Slovenian judiciary. And when it comes only to the preparation of the law, it is an area that is truly legally extremely complicated, which does not justify the complexity of the law itself. If any area is legally complicated – any area can be legally complicated – it is particularly legally complicated, I tell you from my experience, after all these months I cannot say that I am a sovereign acquaintance of this area, I have learned the area enough to guide the work of this group and that I know that the solutions that are on the table are in your presence, the honourable Members, the right ones. There's no doubt about that. But I do know that this law could be written much simpler and easier to understand if there were people who knew that. We don't have any. In my opening remarks, all legal and economic and other professions participated in the preparation of the first Systemic Disposal Act and then amendments to the Financial Business Act. What we have in Slovenia is what I have engaged, and the result of this engagement is what we have on the table. Initially, I had no opportunity to predict what I had announced many times in public, even in relation to, say, the International Monetary Fund. I intend to continue my work! We just had to do the maximum possible in a relatively short time here, so that we have some solutions that are better than nothing, and these solutions are significantly better than nothing, but they are not optimal. They are not optimal, so we will continue our work, engage experts from outside this country, if necessary, and form a team that will then make a modern, simple, comprehensible insolvency law, which will then, in the medium and long term, I hope, maintain this stability and will not be subject to any changes. We also intend to monitor closely, as you do in the SDS in other opposition parties, I hope that everyone in this House will closely monitor, of course as a government, in particular how this law will be enforced in practice. I am aware of this problem that you have been talking about – otherwise the banks have not shown any activity so far, why should they show it now? That is why we will do everything, I commit myself, but of course others will have to cooperate, the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Slovenia, anyone else, to show the banks that now the moment has come when something has to be done. So: implementation, careful monitoring of the implementation of the law on the government side will, I assure you. And if we find that anything in practice does not work as well as we have foreseen in these solutions to the best of our ability, and we have thought about it, all the scenarios in the group have been reconsidered, people in the group have been involved in the group, who are from practice who have an insight into these things – but, everyone can be wrong. We will only monitor this, if necessary, react immediately and propose amendments to the law. Unfortunately, there is no other way, because we need to achieve this fundamental objective that we are pursuing; the real solution is, quickly, all businesses, medium-sized, large and also small and micro-enterprises. Small and micro enterprises already have a chance to do this. In addition, all companies, medium-sized, large, small and micro-enterprises can deal with banks without law, because you don't need the law to do that. So, to agree on the restructuring of debt-supply relations – this is if you look at Germany or another country in a comparative way, because this is not regulated by law, because it is part of some normal business culture. Here, it's not in Slovenia. However, what I wanted to stress was that I was somewhat hurt by the opposition’s opposition. I must say that, as with all the projects I have undertaken so far, I see only one interest, and this is the interest of Slovenia, Slovenian companies, workers, our citizens and citizens. And I'm here alone, and everyone who helped me had this right in front of us, and we gave up what we could give as much as we could. That is why this opposition, where these warnings and these concerns are entirely justified because I have them myself. But it still pains me because I somehow expect you to know in the opposition and have a review of the situation in Slovenia and know that there is no more to be done. In this respect, the mountain did not shake and the mouse was born, but the whole idea of the Systemic Disposal Act was to some extent broken down, now incorporated into the Financial Business Act. Not all of it was possible, but 90 percent of what he promised to do with the Systemic Dispension Act is now built into this. That is why we have, in addition to the reasons I have mentioned, the main reason that we simply did not have the capacity to complete this matter within a few months in a manner which would be legally consistent and which would not allow further abuse. Nevertheless, I think that most of what the Systemic Disposal Act has promised and what you have counted and hoped for in the SDS, as well as in the SD, as well as in the SD itself, because I have activated this project in order to make this happen in the Financial Business Act. It's really complicated, really many of those who read it once, twice, three times, will still not understand it, but believe me, it can be understood if a person is persistent enough. If a person is persistent enough to read it ten times, he will understand. Because it's simply not astrophysics, it's not the discovery of the origin of the universe. But sentences may be a little more complicated, and the terms used may be more complicated. Despite what I have said in the introduction, I always advocate for laws that are simple, simple, understandable to all, every household that understands. However, there are certain questions that cannot be understood by every household because they are simply professional. Nor will this law be applied by households; the law will be used by more or less professional users. If they try hard, they'll understand. From experience, colleague Vizjak, from experience in drafting the law, I will tell you that a number of people who participated in the preparation or, say, with whom we coordinated and spat and criticized the law, but then I said that I should propose an article to change it, but he did not know which article it was because he did not read it at all. In this way it is difficult then all these criticisms that we read in the media these days – I doubt that these people have read this law. [[…]] However, I generally agree with this scepticism that you have mentioned whether banks will be activated now or not — how, because it is not possible to force them to do so! We can do no such thing as a law, and it is still a matter of responsibility, professional competence, some other attributes that the law cannot create from nothing that are responsible in banks and elsewhere, just to sober up and find out where they are and what they need to do. There is no law, and no law that is so simple and effective, can solve it. In addition, with regard to the amendments proposed by the SDS already on the committee. Everyone seems, even to me, to be very weighty and understandable at first sight. Let's say, in particular, that creditors could also activate pre-insolvency proceedings. However, I must say that there are strong professional arguments against this and they have already been presented on the committee; part of it was discussed by my colleague Frangež, and if necessary, today we will put these arguments on the table again, due to counter arguments, but now I have no time to finish – or do I still have?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u37	Yeah, you got an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u38	Therefore, strong professional counter-arguments are against this and other SDS proposals being adopted. But once again – because I know that you are probably already determined in advance in the opposition – it is still what I would like to stress, that if you can, help us with some amendments to correct what we may not have seen or overlooked ourselves, but I also call and appeal to the opposition to support the law also because it is an important message to the public and Slovenian citizens. We are working for the same interest, because this law is about a problem that we all have, which is not just a coalition, and I would suggest such a law, no matter what kind of government it is. So, the law as it is is is not because it is such a coalition, but it is because it is the maximum of the maximum that could be drawn from what we have in Slovenia in these, say, four, five, six months as far as we have dealt with this law. He'd have so many introductory notes, and then he'd answer if he had to.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you. He's got magic in his hands. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. My procedural proposal is an appeal for a politically correct language. It's not an intervention in freedom of expression, it's an expression I've been tracking that bears all the signs of a discriminatory speech. These days, from 26 November to 10 December, action against violence against women is under way, and discrimination is violence against women. I wanted to respond to the speech of Ambassador Tonin when he linked the linguistic understanding of a marriage text to the household, to every housewife in every Slovenian village. Since this relationship has now been used more than once, I would ask that I do not know any professional analytical text that would link the reading understanding or the ability to understand the text with the sex. Or that it would be possible to claim that the householders have a worse understanding of the texts than any other population group in this country. However, this is statistically proven, women in Slovenia have higher education than men. A politically correct speech is a speech that everyone understands, although I also have doubts that something can be written so that everyone understands, especially when it comes to marriage texts. Mr President, my call therefore goes in this direction that we are politicians and politicians as an example in at least political correctness, if we cannot be any different example when we use speech. It is unacceptable, and it often occurs to us that we want to have a vivid metaphorically rich speech — and the cases are such a species — cut down, be lively, and not know what else, while we offend the majority of the group in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you, for this warning, especially during this period in which we are. I am sure that we will also take this into account in further discussions. But I don't think anyone wanted to overstep that understanding either, so that maybe this warning came at some right time, so right that we're even more aware of it. The word was also wanted by the Minister, Dr. Plitschani. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you. I wanted a word because Mrs Potter is right, and I want to apologize to all members of the women's sex. In fact, that word, which I had taken unconsciously after what I had heard before, was inappropriate. I apologize, and it was really inappropriate. But you probably agree, Mrs Potrata, that this is a metaphor that is often used. In doing so — at least when I used that word, although I did not specifically specify it — I apologize for that, too — the housewife also thought of a male member of the household. But this somehow tries to illustrate someone, for example, who is not so professionally subservient, either a male or a female, and then is a criterion for whether something is simple enough, understandable enough or not. However, I apologize to all members of the women's sex, whom I deeply appreciate and respect, for the inappropriate use of this term.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I often use a metaphor, too, let's say we use a healthy farmer's brain at some point. And with that, I hope I don't insult all those who aren't farmers because they don't usually use it. So that's how it's supposed to be. We're probably non-farms, too. [[...]] Dearly beloved, a joke aside, a little bit about these amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Dear Minister, we know each other, and we know each other with no doubt, or with little doubt, that they were and that you were guided by very positive intentions when you coordinated the desired solutions with the entire set of formalists you have around you in various associations. I have no doubt that the basic purpose of the law and also the fundamental purpose of this government's ambition after a systematic delinquency was sincere and correct and, in fact, also worthy of the opposition's greeting. We also believe that the over-indebtedness of all the size of Slovenian companies, both espies, small, micro-enterprises and medium and large key problems, not only these companies, but also then the problem is some of the prosperity in this country, because such companies cannot function optimally, do not work or even engage in pay-discipline, do not pay contributions, taxes and as a result a whole set of functions in this country is at risk. That's really a fundamental problem. That is why, when you went to concrete solutions, you started hitting on the problems of concrete implementation of various measures. Therefore, once again, we are relatively well-intentioned to this text proposal and have not said anywhere that we will oppose this text. However, I said that we are expecting some good intentions or, I would say, some support for the proposals we have put forward. The Slovenian Democratic Party is not subject to what you have said if it is a huge criticism of this law and no concrete proposal. We, in the form of the four amendments to Article 4, have written very specific amendments and I will briefly take them back. The first amendment to Article 4 refers to the fact that this preventive restructuring would also apply to small companies. I know the reason why you decided not to listen to this, because you are afraid of attacking the courts or that these proceedings will then be too much and that some limited apparatus the courts have will not meet this challenge. So, it's not about substantive reasons, it's about practical operational, technical reasons. It is therefore difficult for me to listen here to the arguments of some who even cite a bunch of substantive arguments that small societies are not present. They're gone! It's just that you're assessing that the courts won't process such a case, and you've subsequently denied this opportunity to this group of companies. Here was a talk about the fact that these small businesses are available this so-called simplified coercion, the simplification of the coercion, but I want to have a pre-insolvency procedure so that it does not come into force, so it is not an argument that we have a simplified coercion, if we want to have, before it becomes an insolvency, any restructuring. This one really doesn't hold. Then the most ridiculous argument with Dada not to implement this preventive restructuring is that we already have, in the current legislation, tools for small, micro-enterprises. If we have them, why are they in charge? Obviously these tools do not work, so you are probably also introducing new tools because they do not work. And if existing ones don't work for large ones, they probably don't work for small ones. The little ones are just as indebted as the big ones. In short, this proposal, if this preventive restructuring would also apply to small businesses, is, in my opinion, justified and should be tried. The most important thing, but even without it, we would still survive, Your Honor, but the most important thing is this debtor-truster relationship. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the problem of both over-indebtedness and then insolvency proceedings, as well as the Borrowing of creditors in these insolvency proceedings, is also the responsibility of the debtor. When the debtor feels that the matter is going under the shore, it drags too long and even works in this calvary is extremely damaging to the creditors. Finally, a hidden company comes into a coerced state, where creditors pay virtually little or even messes up, then the whole thing goes bankrupt. Here to find general solutions to how to prevent this is a problem, because each company is specific, each company, because of the specific circumstances of the problem, can do absolutely nothing wrong in this, it may be linked to one partner, which confuses the problem and consequently confuses this subordinate business partner into problems. However, we know that there are virtually no operational procedures for determining the debtor's responsibility for doing so in this Calvary before it becomes an insolvency position. I don't know any judgment or any judgment that creditors would have brought against a debtor against the administration of a company, that is to say, creditors, if he has been delaying for too long with a proposal for such and other payment or insolvency proceedings, i.e. coercion or anything else. It is said that the debtor, the administration of an over-indebted company, is also often responsible for the irresponsibility or, in my opinion, most often for the damage to creditors at the end and also for the indebtedness of the same company. Through this law, I do not see any effective mechanisms to prevent or to reduce the debtor’s liability to the plan or to offer it to creditors on the tray, if you use this option and squeeze the one that leads to damage to your claims. That's why we proposed an amendment. We have proposed an amendment, simply stated, that when a creditor, a bank, a state becomes aware that a certain debtor will come into an insolvency position, there is a likelihood that he will enter insolvency proceedings within one year so that this creditor can also give the debtor the initiative to initiate preventive restructuring. If the debtor refuses to do so, he has strong responsibilities and then comes to force – it is said that the creditor was right, but the debtor ignored this – so if there is then an insolvency procedure, that there is in some way a very clear responsibility of this debtor; he did not get it; he did not use the tools available to him; at the same time, the company became in trouble and the damage of the creditors is here. In this case, you need to knock on the conscience of these creditors or those in debt, if you take these things responsible, for otherwise you will be responsible. If any of these debtors had already sat behind bars or were on their way to these bars, then it is likely that a number of debtors in this Calvary would have acted differently, more responsibly and probably take all the possibilities to wash their name and responsibility in order to restructure or preserve some healthy kernels. This, Your Honor, is our amendments, we think they are necessary and important. Once again, we are looking at this proposal through the contents. Once again, I think all these tools, this box of tools offered by this law, are welcome. But it is a big question whether they will be overblown by bankers – and I hope I haven't hurt anyone again – because they haven't used them so far. So far they have not been, and I think there is also a big problem for businesses. And look, this pressure on banks over the last few years in this sense of the responsibility of the administrations, the supervisory boards have caused bankers today not to give the simplest credit, not only to hope to sign a financial restructuring agreement with which they would not only give themselves one discount, it is said, to reduce some payment of the debtor, but also to someone else – one bank that does not accede to these agreements. That's what they say. Someone else was forced to do that thing. Do you know what responsibility this is? Big responsibility! Today, bankers have proved that they do not hope to shoulder even three times less or ten times less responsibility than this. Not because of some opposition posture, but I'm very skeptical about these solutions but I'm not saying they won't work, they can be. [[…]] Let's be surprised. We will therefore monitor the implementation of this law and the amount of all these preventive restructurings. I hope that we will not experience a similar fate as a number of laws in the time of the Pahor government, which were designed for similar solutions, and in fact, the struggle is of little use.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? More. I invite you to report. Mr. Jože Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u46	We're talking about the economy. Fortunately, the economy is neither coalition nor opposition, and – which I am more pleased with – is the middle sex: the economy after what we were learning in primary school. Well, here's to serious business. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the debate he had, unfortunately he is not here now, Comrade Frangež. This is how he discussed the position of the Social Democrats' Group and in his own debate, and he pointed to – it was clear – the European Commission's opinion on the budget plans of the Republic of Slovenia for the following year was extremely important. I am pleased that the European Commission gave a positive opinion on the budget documents of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. The European Commission has been doing this in accordance with the legislative package of twins which entered into force in the euro area since May this year. The European Commission shall review the budgetary documents, i.e. the budget plans for next year in accordance with the Stability and Growth Pact and in accordance with the European Semester for Economic Policy Coordination. She said that here is our plan, it is a plan – we could say a list of wishes, but I am more serious, and I say this is a budget plan – and she found that there are no differences according to both documents that I mentioned earlier. But surely we are all aware that the realisation of these plans is important. But here I make a dot for the introduction and then I continue with the amendment to the 4th Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which wants this preventive restructuring procedure to also introduce this law or that this law also permits small companies. We will support this amendment because in our economic programme of the New Slovenian-Christian Democrats the Slovenian economy is founded on small and medium-sized enterprises. As colleague Tonin has already said in the position of the parliamentary group, we understand small and medium-sized enterprises in Slovenia as a foundation, as the core of the Slovenian economy. Of course, we do not depreciate large companies, and these are still important, but the foundation is on small and medium-sized enterprises. Why am I stressing this so much? The European Commission's annual report on small and medium-sized enterprises needs to be read, this was issued yesterday, 26 November 2013. The European Commission notes in its annual report on small and medium-sized enterprises that, for the first time in the European Union this year, we can expect an increase in employment in small and medium-sized enterprises and an increase in their added value. Here I will operate with numbers, then I will also talk about Slovenia and also with numbers. Total employment in small and medium-sized enterprises is expected to increase by 0.3 per cent compared to 2012 and added value by 1 per cent. Positive developments are also expected next year. The data also show that job losses were more frequent in vulnerable Member States last year, but the declining trend has also slowed there. In the beginning, European small and medium-sized enterprises were much more resistant to the crisis than large businesses, but because of weak domestic demand they needed more time to recover. Last year there were 20.4 million small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union, employing 86.8 million people, representing 66.5 per cent of all jobs in the European Union. Last year, the small and medium-sized enterprises sector contributed 57.6 per cent of the gross value added of the private non-financial economy in Europe. Most small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe are micro-enterprises. And now to Slovenia. As stated yesterday, the Commission also published information on the progress of individual European countries in implementing the Small Business Act 2012. In Slovenia, there were over 108 000 small and medium-sized enterprises in 2012 that employed about 420,000 people and produced around EUR 11 billion of value added. Small and medium-sized enterprises accounted for 99.8 per cent of all companies and contributed 64.1 per cent of the value added and also represented 71.7 per cent of all jobs in the private non-financial sector. Slovenian small and medium-sized enterprises are still experiencing the consequences of the crisis, in particular the construction sector. The 2013 outlook, however, is more positive. Why am I saying this? A simple account shows, we can say that although it is theoretical, given that we have 108 000 small and medium-sized enterprises in Slovenia, and if only every other company hired one worker, then that means just over 50,000 new jobs – and we would solve the matter in Slovenia! That's right, it sounds theoretical. We can and have the right and duty to set high goals. It is said that every other small and medium-sized company has only one new job and we have saved Slovenia. We therefore regret, Mr Minister, that somehow you have failed to reach agreement with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. You told me what I believe you were talking to them, but you didn't agree. So, the Chamber of Commerce and Business does not support this law for understandable reasons. Look, this is not an attack on our part, by the New Slovenia Group. In the introduction, I said that you must have made a lot of effort, including this external legal institution that you hired, is –, clearly, against payment – probably doing your product well, according to your assessment. But in fact, this is where our views of the Slovenian economy cut. As it is said; in New Slovenia we have the conviction that we have the orientation that small and medium-sized enterprises should be particularly encouraged to create an environment for them to achieve this goal that I have been talking about. It is said that every other small, medium-sized company in Slovenia has one new job and we have saved Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the floor to prepare Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I join the opinion on the need to enable as much employment as possible in small businesses. It is only here that we are not specifically talking about proposals to promote employment, but rather about a law that will, in the first phase, stop the reduction of employment, stop the bankruptcy or not completely halt it, but try to simplify and accelerate it to the extent possible to restructure it. If we are talking about helping small businesses, then if we are to directly touch on the proposed SDS amendment, where they propose that the preventive restructuring process extend to small companies in Article 44b, I must list some of the reasons that we have already heard about today, why the extension of this Article is not meaningfully accepted. Indeed, it is an unnecessary burden, both in terms of costs and complexity of the procedure. Just small companies in general, in the vast majority of small companies, have a maximum of one to two banks of creditors and a simplified compulsory settlement is envisaged for them in this novel. Finally, I see that we have all found that some of these 15 judges would not be able to process more than tens of thousands of these proceedings at once. Thus, if we consider that it is essential to maintain and allow these restructuring procedures to lapse as soon as possible, if the time dimension is important, then I think it is very reasonable that a simplified enforcement settlement is applied to small companies. If I quickly go through what is necessary for this simple compulsory settlement, a report on the financial situation and business of the debtor, a financial restructuring plan, evidence of the payment of the initial advance and a notary record of the debtor's statement of reality, the fairness of the financial situation report and the operation should be attached to small companies. Thus, there is no need to submit an audit report, a report by an authorised valuer of an undertaking, which significantly reduces costs and simplifies procedures and reduces the time spent on such procedures. It makes no sense for me to support this amendment if we are talking about helping small businesses. As far as the amendment is concerned, which also proposes an initiative by the creditor to start the operational restructuring process at all. Here, too, I would like to comment on why I believe that this is not in practice right, would not be right and would not work. Because, according to the proposal of this novel, the only applicant can be in debt at a time when he is not yet insolvent. It is said that the situation envisaged by this current novel that the applicant, the debtor is not insolvent, cannot be proposed by the creditors because the current insolvency has not yet occurred. This is a business secret, and it is the debtor himself who must make a conscious assessment of whether this insolvency threatens him within one year. Where it is a situation in which an undertaking can become insolvency within a period of one year, creditors do not have sufficient information to be eligible applicants, so that this amendment does not seem to make sense to me. As regards the second text, also in the proposed amendment, in order to exempt acts or acts that are not in accordance with the professional prudence of the financial profession or the management profession of undertakings, further compensation is provided to follow the debtors who would not have triggered it. I don't think it's necessary to lay down another type of liability. Thus, if we find that such procedures for identifying existing compensation responsibilities do not take place as they should, it is necessary to find the reasons for this and to eliminate them, but not to add additional articles with similar content again with the result that these new procedures will not take place. In various other parts we find defined compensation responsibilities, both in this law, whose novelty we have before us, and in the Law on Economic Companies. This makes no sense to add this kind of compensation responsibility to this place, so I will not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Vizjak, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. Respectfully, I would suggest that, since we had a similar proposal before, that because of the easier work of our services preparing magnetograms, the debaters would leave in every two words "ee...", "ee...". In fact, Mr Jerič, I think he said "eee..." almost as many times as he said the words. If he doesn't believe me, let him read his tape. From this title, I would suggest that in our discussions we are also a little more correct, including those preparing magnetograms.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. This was not exactly a procedural proposal, but you have also intervened in the area of Mrs Potrate, so that we continue with the debate. Mr. Richard Braniselj is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would touch on the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which go in two directions. But I must say that I do not like them because they are not good; of course not because they were put in by colleagues. The first step is to institutionally regulate the possibility for creditors to propose this financial restructuring process to the debtor. I don't think it's necessary to regulate this institutionally in this law. After all, the creditors of the debtor can warn you at any time. The other thing is, the debtors themselves know what their health is, better than the creditors. The third thing is, of course, that someone might even think that we are going in a direction where we require creditors to act actively when there is to be complete activity on the part of the debtor. I'm afraid if we accept this, the debtor will be able to make excuses when he doesn't start this procedure in time, so none of the creditors will point him out. I therefore point out these things when we once want to introduce them in order to impose a higher level of responsibility on the debtor, so that we can do the opposite. We know that, according to the principles of bankruptcy law, the debtor has one essential duty: the moment when he cannot pay within the time limit of one single post, according to his household, he is obliged to initiate appropriate procedures. Now we're going to the whole phase before we tie this moment of responsibility to the moment that it realizes that it won't be able to pay one single bet within one year. And I do not agree that we do not have the opportunity to prosecute those debtors who take it lightly or harmfully for the creditors. They are all instruments, but in this case we need activity on the part of creditors that will require compensation procedures and criminal proceedings. Secondly, the amendment also refers to the fact that the financial restructuring process should also be conducted over small companies. Then let us ask ourselves why he would not also lead himself into personal bankruptcy, in the case of natural persons who are insolvent. Here, too, we can extend these possibilities, but on the one hand, we have a new institute that will still have to be checked, which someone will have to handle well, we have limited capacity both professional and human resources on the side of the courts. In particular, we have introduced a simplified enforcement procedure for such cases. Otherwise, the tools themselves will not help if we do not use these tools, but the toolbox itself is nothing harmless.I think it is appropriate that we first offer this tool to those who are most vulnerable and most express some public interest, and this is a big business. Big and medium-sized companies. Because comparisons with other Member States show that we have a huge deficit here, that these companies, which we have lost the most in the past, and if we sink one such enterprise, it is very difficult to do so, and the damage to one huge large company is great; not only the damage to public finances, the damage to employment, the loss of jobs, the loss of suppliers, the loss of know-how, the loss of market networks, the loss of employees I have already talked about. It is therefore appropriate that this moment is limited to medium-sized and large enterprises. I will not support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Shircelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! I liked it very much at the beginning or when I listened to you, Minister, when you said that you were taking into account the actual situation in which the economy is and where the banks are. As a result, in principle, I agree or welcome any effort to make this change. By the way, what's this all about? This is because the credits or debts of the economy are 135 per cent higher than the capital of the economy. In other words, if the economy has ten million capital, then this economy has 13 and a half million credits, which of course means that this relationship is wrong, it is not good, it is not economical, it does not provide security, etc. and that is why measures are needed. That is why I will then also refer to amendments, at least one of them, that the creditor also has a certain role and that the creditor can also initiate certain procedures. In fact, why? The trustee's a bank. The trustee is actually a bank, the debtor of course is a company. That's what we're talking about. If the bank is a creditor, I cannot agree with the thesis, which was somehow expressed in these discussions, namely, the problem with banks is that companies are in debt. Yeah, but who over-indebted them? Banks. Where did they get the credit? Banks. Each bank has a complete balance sheet when deciding whether or not to give credit to an undertaking, all information can be obtained before it gives credit. And they gave out loans. When, let's say, we have a capital ratio of a hundred and a loan of 50, then it's the debtor's problem, the company's problem. But if we have a relationship like this, then it's not just a problem for the company, but it's also a problem for the banks, because they're responsible, and they put too much credit on the wrong balance sheets or on the right balance sheets, and they still gave credit and credit and credit. And now, given that the Slovenian Democratic Party wants and requires a certain role and responsibility of banks in this, the positions parties say: no. For here, when we speak of the trustee and the debtor, we know who is the creditor, and we know who is the debtor. These are not theoretical concepts, but it is one of Slovenian banks or also foreign, smaller banks, etc. For this reason, it is entirely justified that the creditor, of course the bank, has the possibility and responsibility to initiate any proceedings in accordance with this law or to initiate this procedure, which would also mean, on the one hand, that the undertakings should be disbursed. That way we can't mix who's who. We must not mix the cause and effect. In fact, the banks are the ones that have been lending, and the banks are responsible for it, but here we are saving the banks. We save banks and we don't give banks any responsibility, and that's why it's questionable. It is also questionable — for we can talk about the debtor’s responsibility. According to the ZGD, the liability of the debtor is, but according to the ZGD, the debtor can close the company, introduce such and such procedures, he can do so, he has all the options here, the authorities have to monitor it, he has to pay all the taxes, etc., then close the company. This debtor also gave certain guarantees to the bank – it should give them, such as the bank requested or requested by the bank. If she didn't ask for them, the bank's problem! If she didn't ask for them, the problem of the bank, and the debtor, if he cheated in this case if he committed a crime and so on. With this law, we want to transfer all the burdens actually to businesses, while banks will be able to monitor all of this, decide whether or not they will go into it and so on. This is the problem, and here I have, Minister, then some questions or as you yourself said, there is no systemic compulsion here. We give banks the opportunity they already have here, banks could have agreed with each other in the last six years, for so-called syndicated loans; who will get how much, how will they get, how will they split it. Look, I believe the bankers sat at the joint table many times, but they didn't make up their minds, and they sat again and again and again. And now there's a problem that you've been talking about. In fact, you said that you would also like something else on the table, some other marriage, but unfortunately for various reasons this is not possible, and that you will also join, Minister, the new law that this law is not really the best option, and so on; but that it is difficult to write. There are few experts in Slovenia about the fact that few people who do not know all of this and therefore, as you said, the rules are complicated and even more complex and difficult to understand for all people, probably only some people know them. After all, you, as I know, and you yourself said you had this law written to some law firm. I assure you that this legal society will be able to interpret the law properly and it will explain the law correctly, and probably it will be the one who will explain the law first, and then probably the Ministry of Justice will give the press that is right – if that is the case. I ask you whether there may be no interest in the Ministry of Justice in amending this law, because the existing lobbies hold their positions and do not want to change anything and do not want to change complex procedures that may constitute bankruptcy or any other financial consolidation process. And isn't it possible by saying that on the one hand we don't have enough people who could simply write it, on the other hand, we only have some -- I respect them, I don't have any problems -- take advantage of the market niche in this area as well, and write laws for the Ministry of Justice and over them come certain lobbyes and we have problems, I don't know, with bankruptcy procedures and bankruptcy managers and so on. And can you make sure that again there is no impact of any lobby – let's say the biggest Slovenian banks. As I know, not only do some foreign banks leave Slovenia, but they also leave the committees, because they do not agree, and this causes great damage if they cancel loans. Indeed, it is necessary to know that whenever such and such circumstances change, especially in the case of newer loans, the bank simply terminates the loan and requires repayment at any time. So this is a question in place, just according to your statements, which you have also said here – in short, that there are no real experts and so on. Second question, you excuse why not small businesses. The whole world, if you want, but Europe, has specific programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, has special solutions to facilitate their operations. We're here to take them out of some special solutions. Okay, if they only have one bank loan, then they won't come in and one bank will talk to them. But why do we systematically take them out and put them in a worse position or an unequal position in this regard? We're systematically exempting them! Our proposal is to include them, of course. This is now the second question of whether banks here actually need to show something, do something, and so on. But, look, small banks, at least those outsiders, don't actually agree. After all, if you wish, the Bank of Slovenia does not agree to increase the percentage to 60 per cent so that this process can begin. Because then there will be actually more bankruptcys, with regard to this amendment, which was adopted by the Committee from 50 per cent to 60 per cent when this percentage is increased for enforcement settlement. Actually, here's the problem. As I know, the Bank of Slovenia disagrees with this because it says there will be more bankruptcys. Is this law, given that it affects banking, given that it affects the economy, and that the supervisor of the Bank of Slovenia is in line with the Bank of Slovenia – I read that they have different opinions. Look, I'm reading statements from the Bank of Slovenia. That is why this is the next question. Of course, you want full support, but you do not accept fully justified amendments made by the Slovenian Democratic Party in view of the actual situation, given that the creditor must also have a certain responsibility in lending if we have 13.5 million loans per 10 million capital in the economy. And that's actually the situation. You don't want to impose certain responsibilities on banks here, but only on the debtor. That's what it is now. The opposition can also defend itself in one way or another – the position can defend or the current coalition that these amendments are unnecessary, unprofessional and so on. [[…]] That's not true! That's just not true. In this case, we are talking about the economy and about banks actually starting to do something. I don't think this law will do much good. However, I am afraid that there are certain interests behind all the complex provisions. I would ask you, Minister, to say something about it or deny it if it isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! This debate, Mr Širclja, seems very important to me, and I will therefore try very hard to answer all these questions. First of all, when it comes to this fundamental finding that there is no systemic coercion against banks. It is not, and I don't see how it could be if we accepted this amendment so that creditors can also propose a pre-insolvency procedure. Here's the word "may". I can, I can't. There's a possibility here. If the banks have not so far, if this continues to apply, nothing will change with this amendment as well. I will return to these professional counter-arguments, which I spoke about earlier, which, by the way, speak against a proposal that seems to me, it still seems kind of logical and understandable – and when one looks at the whole system, including the whole novel, and the whole law – it is necessary to read the law as a whole with the novel as well as the legal order as such, it is necessary to have before one’s eyes – then see that there are only more reasons against it than for. But if the underlying reason for this amendment is that it will then be some systemic compulsion for banks – it is not. Systemic coercion would be if we wrote that creditors had to propose such a procedure if not, they were to be sanctioned in the same way and so on. Then we would translate this into existing creditors, these are banks, and we would say that banks should then, let's say, think in this direction in order to achieve something in the direction of systemic coercion, which is, I completely agree with that, the main problem. [[…]] Banks have been passive so far. If we gave them all these tools, even if we accepted this amendment, as it were said, we would not increase this systemic compulsion. I must also tell you my experience in the drafting of this law when I first met this world of bankers, and I was very disappointed by the financial council, which I had previously had a very high opinion on. Practically perfect passivity, even when it comes to suggestions, what to do. Logically, if they have no interest in doing anything, they have also proposed nothing and have largely joined the predominant approach in Slovenia, and that is that when someone proposes something, the only thing most can do is bring down what someone proposes. I must say that what the SDS is putting on the table is not part of this, they are constructive proposals, but for which there are, unfortunately, more reasons than for. For all three amendments; both for those who speak of the possibility that creditors may propose to give an initiative for the pre-insolvency procedure, as well as for those who talk about the extension of this to small and other companies, not only medium and large, and for those who are then linked to these two, it is the debtor's indemnity responsibilities, which would not have taken such an initiative. If I continue now on the fundamental questions that, if I did not remain answered, might raise some doubts, I suspect that things were not clear, that some lobbyists came through and so on. First of all, it's about systemic coercion. This is a response to the first observation or finding. How did the law come about? One more time. I can say it the way it was, purely honest and honest. So we went first of all on the Systemic Disposal Act, with genuine ambition to do for part of the problem that we have in the insolvency area, i.e. to make a modern law that will allow for the rapid, effective deleveraging of Slovenian companies, with as little formalism as possible, with as little role as possible in the courts, in particular allowing all of this to happen in a situation where the company is not yet insolvent, when there is enough time to get rid of it when the water is not running into the throat. We really put a lot of energy into this and we came to some point, and then we realized that, as I said in the first place, with the team that was doing this, we don't know how to bring this to an end within the expected time frame that we had. It was too complicated, too little time, too few people were able to help here, and then I had no choice but to form another team, in which one of the Slovenian lawyers from the well-known Ljubljana law firm was actually involved. This first counselor was also a lawyer — the one who helped me with the law on systemic delinquency. For I wanted someone from practice, not someone who would cover this issue as a theoretical, but we all know that even when we talk about theorists, say academics dealing with the issue of insolvency law, the fingers of one hand are big, much too much for how many people we have in Slovenia. So we practically have no one; one, two, three who deal with it! As it is said, I wanted people from practice and it is clear here that the most experience lawyers have when we talk about lawyers by practice, exactly lawyers. I don't see any problem here. The first marriage team and the second marriage team were made up not only of a lawyer but of a number of other people, lawyers and economists. Even in this other group, which I gave her the task of then bringing together everything that we had brought to a point in the Systemic Disability Act, we then did not know how to complete it by merging it or incorporating it into the Financial Business Act. There were a whole bunch of people in this group who aren't lawyers who aren't lawyers. So, the composition of this group has been very carefully thought out, unfortunately I thought carefully about who will be sitting there to ensure exactly what you are – or what you, Sir Shircelj – have initially asked whether I can ensure that the lobby did not influence. I can make sure the lobby didn't interfere. No lobby, no bank, no other lobby, even those experiments were huge. So a protector for this or some control mechanism to ensure that despite my efforts and my concerns, the concerns of my colleagues, so that we have indeed taken care to balance all interests, but in particular we have always taken care that only the public interest will be protected here and no other, so we had as an additional protector all four other international or European institutions, in particular the International Monetary Fund, which I hope – I cannot say – if he noticed any imbalance, some favouring one group at the expense of another, probably warned us about this, given that he had worked intensively with us. The International Monetary Fund has sent highly qualified experts, in particular a fellow lawyer, Germany. It is important to stress this: Germany, because it is a system by which we usually follow the example when preparing legislation, there is also no exception to the insolvency area. So we had a lot of intense conversations, no storming. Let me say that, in all these discussions, even in the preparation of the law on purpose, in order to avoid the predominance of the partisan interests of individual groups, I have already formed a group composed of representatives of purely partial interests. If someone favored one, they'd probably notice the other. I admit that for reasons I have not yet been able to identify, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has fallen out; no, because I would not want to or because I would have given such an order not to participate. If you remember that previous novel in spring, everyone participated, including the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. They simply dropped out here for some reason, but I wasn't paying enough attention to that myself, and I didn't notice that before the law came into procedure. In short, they kept on the watch over one and the other laws of a variety of interests, in the form of various chambers, associations and so on. So they had such and different views, as they say, and they are all in line, with everyone except the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and that's only in the work relating to that threshold of 50 percent, four years. That is why there are also important arguments why we could not accept this – not because we favour medium-sized and large enterprises, but because we would hang or care about small and micro-enterprises. That's not true! So, I am sure that, in an appropriate way, it is balanced for all that there are solutions for all, but there are some reasons, some arguments that I will return to, why the pre-insolvency procedure is not intended for small and medium-sized enterprises, why it is possible to give a little more attention, a little bit more energy – in general, in the whole novelty, not just in the pre-insolvency process, to medium and large enterprises. I will return to that, but I would like to further explain and ensure that we have done everything here, I am sure, effectively and successfully, that the lobby has failed to come with its interests through. You're asking if the Bank of Slovenia is aligned. Yes, of course it is harmonised, because it is Banka Slovenije that has very constructively and intensively helped prepare this law! The representative of Banka Slovenije sat in a group that prepared both the first law and the second law. So, the representative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia was sitting in the first group when it came to the law on systemic debt, but not in the second, because we would not want to have it, but simply — let me just say again — there were no solutions here on the table, the criticism itself. Okay, if you're criticizing, then tell me what you'd do, like the SDS just said. You know, this is a hard way to work. In addition, it had to be done quickly. Someone found out, I don't remember who this finish was, the real incorporation of the Systemic Disability Act into the ZFPPIPP took place in a couple of days – that's not true! This group, which he led, because I can say, Mr Jadek, this is this lawyer from this Ljubljana law firm, has been preparing this law for quite some time, for a few weeks now, I have no exact number, but a good month, if not more; two months. So that was quick-prepared, it wasn't true. But it is true that the group worked from morning to evening. So much for how the law was made, how it was with the lobby and so on. Once again, the law is aligned with the Bank of Slovenia. This is also what the representative of the Bank of Slovenia said on the Committee on Justice, where he sat and said. There was also a representative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia, whose position was as follows: "We neither support nor oppose the law." So the position that is, I would say, quite consistent with the philosophy that you yourself spoke about, leading banks in operation, and this philosophy is: do not take a step or left or right. Don't do anything. So I'd like to hear from someone who's making a proposal, and how do you say banks systematically force themselves to make a move? I don't think we can legally force them to do anything with some law, so we can't order them to do anything. Different mechanisms have to be used here, different receptions have to be used. Now, just for a little while, on these arguments for these two key amendments to the SDS. Most of them were very well picked up by colleague Braniselj and by colleague Jerič. First of all, why not take the initiative of creditors to initiate or initiate a pre-insolvency pre-insolvency restructuring procedure. One, yes, that's the one. If we wanted to achieve what I understood or understood you or you as the SDS Group Member in order to force the banks to do so, we would not force them to do anything if we told them that they could do the same. Those legal reasons, I could say constitutional, but here we are dealing with a situation where the debtor is not yet insolvent, we are dealing with a situation of threatening insolvency. Indeed, this procedure is intended for the company when it is not yet insolvent. Of course it makes sense why. Because at the time it is early enough, but at the same time there is not yet a situation, how can I say, of exceptional circumstances, which, for example, justifies interventions, major interventions, or even interference with some right of the debtor or creditor. Here we are dealing with a situation where we have a completely regular business. This was one of the important reasons why the group judged me and I must say that it would be against the Constitution to give the creditor the opportunity to intervene in this respect. But once again: if we could achieve any change in the activities of banks, then this would be a completely different situation, because then I would weigh the public benefit that we would gain from this, the real activation of banks with some interference in rights is not. It's not like that, I just don't see any difference here! Then there is another important argument here, which is why I say that the law as a whole should be seen. If the debtor is not willing to do so, as an argument I understood about your proposal would be: yes, because if the creditor can I mean, the creditor now has no threat in his hands – he has it! [[…]] If the debtor does not activate this procedure, he knows what awaits him at the end; he knows that he is facing a total loss of property, a total loss of all rights, because forced settlement is now such, because the principle of absolute advantage is fully established. In short, it's waiting for him at the end and he knows it, and here we have to count on this kind of common sense, that if there's such a serious consequence in the end, then I'll do it. We thought that was enough, so we didn't give the creditor that opportunity. There's still a whole bunch of other arguments against it. I would have said the following to my fellow opposition before continuing with my arguments against it! [[…]] As it is said, we will closely monitor the enforcement of this law, and whatever turns out to be, we did not foresee well that we did not foresee the way in which debtors thought. If I apply this to this particular case, we can fix it very quickly. My proposal is: to leave the law as it is, I also suggest that you support it, and then, if we see that more needs to be done, we will sit together and find a correction in the direction that your amendments are talking about. For this second proposal on the extension to micro and small companies, I can once again repeat some of the main arguments. Unfortunately, I do agree with the philosophy of the proposal and also with the arguments of this proposal in general, but at the same time I cannot go beyond the reality in which we are. So for the first time, what is the number of these companies; here I have the data from ICPES, so the total number of such companies is 4 000 660. Since we have worked with thought and desire to use the law in practice and if it were also used by such companies, then we would suddenly have thousands of such procedures, and forgive me, we have the reality that we have in Slovenia. We have judges, as far as we have them, we have bankruptcy managers, as far as we have them, and we need to take that into account. In fact, we cannot say that this does not have to be taken into account. And we've just decided. That is why, if you remember, the previous law — the one that everyone preferred — the Systemic Dispension Act was the title of the system’s mandate. Yeah, what does that mean? Disbursement of those companies that are particularly important. Comparatively, my fellow Shirtzelj, it is. When we talked to the IMF, but also when we made direct contacts with some countries, like France, Germany, it is also comparable that each country will look at which companies are the most important, since a large company is dependent on the whole chain of small, micro-enterprises. You save a lot of lives, you save so many and so many small businesses. And if you have limited capacity in terms of judiciary, administrators, etc., then you have to decide what you're going to do first. If you can't do it all at once, first you'll do what's more important, then you'll do what's less important. I wish I could do it all at once, but it just isn't possible. So this is essentially this main argument, why small and medium-sized, so small and micro-enterprises don't. Not because he wants to rule them out for me, not because he'd be lobbying larger businesses, banks, etc. pressure, you just let us take care of ourselves, but for small businesses it doesn't matter. Not even close! From the beginning, I had to make sure that this was balanced, but at the same time I had to make sure that the law was also feasible. Well, what would help us if we wrote this, but if we were to actually create the stoppers themselves. The judiciary has already had difficulties in shortening judicial proceedings and judicial backlogs. Now they would be given the possibility of a massive assault on them — what would happen? I'm afraid there's a lot of chaos in court, and in the end, we'd have a problem that's really bigger than we have. But as I say, we don't know how the law will be applied. It can be used by everyone to activate all the banks now, so no one can do anything. In this case, when we follow the practice, we will take a look. If our assumptions about how a responsible manager — whether in a company or in a bank — would have to act in this situation are wrong, if we misjudged whether the responsibility of managers — both of them — is even lower than we think it is, then we will adjust the law. But in advance, we must come from some sense and some legal logic. Now these are the main reasons why marriage is what it is. However, I hope that I have been clear enough, and I am also exhausted enough, as to how the law was formed. One more thing. You mentioned, Comrade Shircelj, that there is now no will at the Ministry and no desire to go into any change that would be different, and that we have therefore outsourced, hired one or another lawyer. All those who have experience with our government, you know that can't be the reason. My sincere desire was to make the law simple, quick, clear, effective and so forth with the coworkers at the Ministry. It's every minister's wish. There will be no minister responsible who is rational to go immediately outsourcing. As you remember, last year, in the previous government, even as a government, we were self-limited and even if outsourcing was needed — and it was needed — it was not possible because we limited ourselves. We said we wouldn't hire external advisory services. Big mistake! Unfortunately, because in the state administration, even in the ministry I run, with rare exceptions – both of you sitting here – I simply have no associate who would have the appropriate expertise for any minor changes, let alone for such radical changes. Such is the actual situation in the Slovenian state administration and this knowledge must be sought outside. That's right. That's a fact. That's what everyone knows. That's why I had no choice but to find this knowledge outside, and even though I did find it if you listened to me correctly, it wasn't enough. And in my opening remarks, it's not enough. Everything we have in Slovenia is not enough – and in the ministry, ministries, and outside, in various organizations, universities and so on, after this experience I have experienced – to prepare a modern, quality, understandable and so on insolvent and also another law. This knowledge will have to be sought, so help yourself with ours, and apparently find it elsewhere, because it is not. He's not in Slovenia! That's the real situation. Thus, the reasons for the law making process, as it is, are very banal, very simple and far from any lobby, conspiracy and so on. A simple fact: there is no such knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister, for your comprehensive response. But I would certainly point to a few things in this replica, especially because I think I was misinterpreted. By the way, you said yourself that this law doesn't force anyone. Well, this law doesn't force a debtor or a creditor and so on. The law is what it is, and because of this amendment, when we say that a creditor can also start certain procedures – the emphasis is on "may" – we do not want to force anyone, but we just want to give the creditor the same opportunity that the debtor has in this case. It's not a coerced act, I didn't mean to force anyone to do it, and this amendment doesn't talk about it, it's just putting the creditor in the position that the debtor has here. That's just what I somehow figured out from your answer that you're talking about it, Minister, so we wouldn't force anyone to do it. No, we just give him the same position. This is now the case if I explain what the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is saying. Secondly, what you say is harmonised with the Bank of Slovenia; I believe that in general, but not in terms of what the Parliamentary Committee has adopted, namely that 60 per cent of all creditors are required to agree on a forced settlement. This is where they oppose Banka Slovenije. As explained, the number of forced settlements will consequently be lower and the number of bankruptcys will be higher. That's what I was talking about when I was talking about non-compliance with the Bank of Slovenia. In view of the fact that you also said that small businesses cannot go into this law, that the reason is also that the problem is the situation in the judiciary and that you have 15 judges dealing with it. Minister, I would really like to ask you here because I think you have at least a coordinating role in the courts, in the prosecutions, after all, you also comment and so on – give, probably in the framework of these colleges, interviews with judges and prosecutors, to provide a larger number of judges. After all, is this likely to be done — or is there not enough everywhere? Because, on the other hand, when you talk about not having experts on the one hand, you said well that we have quite a number of public administrations, which exist and if we don't have one, it's another area. They're just... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u59	Mr. Shircelj, 3 minutes. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u60	These are the things I was going to say in this replica. [[...]] I've been self-absorbed myself – although, Minister, I could discuss this for a long time; but sometimes another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u61	They will also be able to debate in the context of the debates, because I am opening up the possibility of applying for further discussions if anyone wants to debate. I've seen Mr. Starman before. Please sign in, but we're still at Article 4. Four reported. The first one is mag. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, hello! I am sure that the novel is pressed with good intentions to provide a legislative tool that will enable as many companies in Slovenia as possible to repay. Of course, this new preventive restructuring procedure is, in my opinion, the new type of judicial procedure that will allow it to take action at the right time and in time. What should also be done in the area of the public finances system. A few months ago, I was at an omizise of economicists and entrepreneurs. We talked about how to stimulate the economic environment. In the first place, we sat with officials, or those who were paid out of public money. One of the speakers on this round table said or concluded that meeting with the following sentences. He said, "Do you know when it'll be better? At a time when ladies and gentlemen will be paid in the first place from how many jobs will be opened in the economy." I will not say that this novelty will promote new jobs, but it will certainly preserve them. If this recommendation of this economic operator were to apply today, I am sure that Mr Plitčanič would earn his salary to keep his jobs this month with this novel. That is why I will also support this proposal with amendments supported by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister, I did not want to tell him right now that I somehow believe that he is sincere, even sympathetic to his honesty, which is accompanied by, unfortunately, a great deal of naivety, because in politics he obviously does not have the long experience he himself acknowledges. [[...]] Because when I look at this marriage and when he's very sincere about who the coworkers were. I believe that these hired lawyers, whoever, with some positive energy, wanted to create a complementary marriage. If those names he was quoting were working together, I don't know, I'd expect them to have fresher ideas. I have also heard somewhere that Mrs Nina Plaże has been very involved here. If that's true, then I'm not surprised that such a complicated marriage came out. Because she wrote those laws on acquisitions and companies and it is already impossible to build a simple, transparent law on that basis. She is a good lawyer, but unfortunately terminology and she complicates everything to the point of disability and would actually do better in Toporišič's team to form new Slovenian words – the expansion of our dictionary. Otherwise, we have faced this many times — these insolvent, bankruptcy laws we have exchanged in the National Assembly in every term I do not know how many times; and practically always worsened. Obviously. Once we have to smoke old drafts and make a simple marriage! I'm sure he can. Years ago, after a change, he said this to me — when the minister mentioned lawyers who helped and that he had to look beyond knowledge. I think the minister should go get that "out" a little further. Because, as I said years ago, lawyer Damjan Trpin, our Slovenian lawyer from the other side of the border, president of the Slovenian community, great Slovenian and patriot, also said to me: "Yes, it's a shame you didn't change that operational law..." - Now I've forgotten exactly what kind of thing. Perhaps it is the title to get one law that would be human in such a way that it could be used and that these effects would indeed allow for a preventive restructuring procedure of a systemic debt. I'm afraid this case won't make it possible either. Look, we have before us a law that already has 24 sub-headings in Article 4, from A to Z, because this is nonsense in itself. Whoever's gonna have to work after that, I don't think they'll be able to be effective. Our proposals are an attempt to improve where there is little room for improvement. I am confident, as stated in article 44f, that the debtors will not give the initiative for this preventive restructuring, that they will delay and that the creditor must also be included, as we propose. Because force is necessary here, because the debtor is like that quartertoper who has a negative balance against the morning and says, "Let's keep playing," because he thinks the cards will turn; and they don't turn away because he doesn't have that day of happiness. At the same time, it seems to me that the Ministry may be spending some energy in the wrong place. In fact, we should focus on having these judicial authorities act in such a way as to enable as much money as possible, not on political issues now. [[…]] At the same time, we are reading an interview with Zdenko Rotar, who has been Mr Kučan's advisor for so many years and has been at Udba all the time, where he says, "The money is abroad and will now begin to return." Because if he claims to be Kučan’s member of the team, the closest money is abroad, let them ask him where the money is, let them start chasing it — at last, not to engage in political processes! Oh, no! Here the minister should do a little supervisory work to force prosecutors to go along the money flow, as they say, and where big money is abroad, to look for and search for it to move from a dead spot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In my opinion, such an important law raises the question of how it is possible, however, that we are not mature enough to follow the normal procedure, not the urgent procedure. Do you know what novel we have? F! Yesterday I spoke to one of the bankruptcy managers who said, "I haven't even processed the novel yet, and I can't even work on it." That is what those who must apply this law will tell us. The following question is asked – Why so many novelties? Does it take so much copyright to make good money? That might be one answer. Since these contracts are not on the Supervisory Board and you cannot see who are recipients of funds, whose natural persons, it is an excellent way to make as many legal novels as possible by means of an emergency procedure, producing that people are serving well. Second thing. I guess we're working through the emergency procedure all these laws to make the impression that we're working to create something that we're fundamentally changing, and that's not really true at all. You know why I know? From the scratch! I have already put bankruptcy proceedings through and I am interested in who participated in such proceedings – neither the bankruptcy administrators nor those judges who run bankruptcy proceedings, nor those economists who have already gone through these proceedings. It is said that he is again working a narrow circle of people, but who have written most of the laws, made good money on this, and these laws, as the bankruptcy manager has told me, are simple squabbles, by which neither the court nor the bankruptcy administrators, nor the economy, nor the creditors, nor the debtors, can work. And that's how it's gonna be with this novel. People, this bankruptcy manager is running 50 bankruptcy proceedings! 10 for legal persons and 40 for natural persons! That's what we have in the country. And what does it say — not to do after that! I repeat his words, he said, "It's usually crumbling." I said I'd probably use it in the National Assembly, and he said, "Yes, use it!" But if anyone wants to know who he is, I'll give him this as confidential information, but he has to protect him in confidence. That's what the bankruptcy manager told me! See what Einstein says — that the greatest definition of insanity is that you do things the same way, and you expect different results. Yes, but if we, dear colleagues and colleagues, have worked in exactly the same way for 20 years! We gallop and we don't know where. Of course, we all explain how superior we are, the results of our work, the adoption of such laws, but they are probably great! Slovenia is a successful country, Slovenians are a successful nation. Far from it, colleagues and colleagues! A few days ago, Ivo Praise gave me the book The Last Replica. You know, it would be good to read it. The man was last in Parliament in 2000 – I mean, as a parliamentarian. With a delay of about 12 years, he described how laws were passed. It's like I'm watching the replay of the film 12 years later, about the same way – now I can't use the psychosis of madness anymore, but the speed. Laws such as this are adopted by normal procedure, with discretion, because they can really help us to move slowly forward. Following an urgent procedure, to make quick decisions – the rule is that there are always wrong decisions. I have made quick decisions in the company, but I pay the price of my quick decisions myself, and the price of decisions in Parliament is paid by low-standard citizens and a high-tax economy. Colleagues and colleagues! [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I would agree with some of the predecessors who have mentioned that it is pointless to correct legislation and that too much effort is needed to correct such bad legislation as we have in this area. We are trying to solve something in a way where we are likely to achieve what we expect from it; it is said that there is an extension of businesses. Why are companies in charge? Because they're bad at business. What problem do we have with our bankruptcy or insolvency laws? The problem is that it simply does not allow – this is the death of the company; when it goes bankrupt, it is the death of the company. Judicial proceedings are being initiated, claims are being recognised and all together, the business process is halted and this is practically death. I have said many times, and I have already done it differently myself, that we should find a way in companies that are over-indebted to be creditors to become owners of the company, take over the business and then lead it on in a different way – in the form it is – that this should be an option and that this could easily be achieved. Once again, our legislation on bankruptcy has allowed for the conversion of claims into capital. I myself carried out such a case with the help of the bankruptcy manager, in the Planika itself, where in bankruptcy we carried out a conversion of the claims of both banks, both some creditors and countries to the capital of the company, were financially restructured in the bankruptcy itself and virtually maintained the smooth course of production. Thousands of 500 people were uninterruptedly continuing to work on the individual program with the permission of bankruptcy and arranged everything necessary to delete two letters from the register after five months, the company was no longer a Planika in bankruptcy, but a Planika. So the bankruptcy ended, the company was redesigned, thousands of 500 people had jobs, all the processes were running smoothly, not even for a second did the machines stop and this thing was, I think, only done in one other company. When I tried to do this in Mura — recapitalisation in the bankruptcy phase is no longer possible. There was a perimeter to be made, another core to be strengthened, the one to be stopped. The problem with us is that for companies where bankruptcy starts, this is death for the company. Why aren't we so consistent? Why can't we do one translation because we all know that sparrows are lurking that companies abroad in the bankruptcy phase or in any insolvency procedure is this practical cleansing of the company and this is some hope. The company's moving on. Why is it not possible for us to do so if we have applied similar legislation? Why do we have to stop? Automaticly, it comes to valuations; in enterprises, different sales of property start in different ways, months and years run. You can't stop a living organism's heart, not even with us for six months, and then wake it up again to live on. Once you're dead, when bankruptcy starts, the company doesn't start doing business anymore, at least not as much as we need to do! [[…]] That's the other thing. The problem is that we can get the companies to blame, but when we do, we don't do anything. Companies are in crisis, they are in charge of this because they are not doing well because they have inadequate owners who do not know how to do it. If 100% does not change the property of the company and a new operator comes and otherwise leads and executes a truly complete restructuring of such a company, processing or making appropriate structural changes, so that the firm can proceed successfully after this recapitalisation, so that we do nothing. This throws money away — either the bank or any institution, any creditor. That is why I think that in some way we should ensure to these companies and in any procedure that they move as quickly as possible into the ownership of those who are prepared and are better able to manage these companies. By writing down or recapitalizing certain loans, we will temporarily settle certain matters. I know that at the time we recapitalised in the bankruptcy phase, the stake of those who invested in the recapitalisation in the bankruptcy phase was – I don't know if it was a 5-folder or a 10-folder to the existing capital in the company. Thus, it was the complete empowerment of those who had previously owned to those who had invested in companies during the bankruptcy phase. I do not see this in this legislation, so it seems to me that it will probably not be used many times, that the damage is really too much effort in this direction. I think that, given the responsibility of the banks themselves and the business they have so far, no committee, no supervisor, no manager willing to recapitalise later or at the same time write down part of their obligations, because, as has already been said, it is difficult for anyone to give credit for it at all. That is why I have seen a change in this insolvency law in order to actually simplify the process itself so as to allow a smooth continuation of business processes and the decommissioning of all the bad masters and owners who have run it so far, and to allow without interruption – so today we have started the procedure, tomorrow the creditors can sign to become owners who want to, and in the morning they become new administrations in this company and start doing something different. If we achieved this with these corrections in a very simple way, then I would see that the effort is meaningful and that it would also produce results greater than it will. I have nothing against the law, I have no objection to this attempt, but I would really suggest that we once find the answers to these questions that I have asked: why we have insolvency proceedings, bankruptcy of death for the company and why not elsewhere. Let's, for God's sake, put all these papers in the trash, and if we don't, let's rewrite these things as they do where they do it successfully. Why do we always fix things our way, so that the whole process does not go smoothly and that we are doing things in a way that is not necessary. I'm not going to object to these changes. I think that the experiment, as the minister himself has said, would make things possible – and these things too. I don't think there's going to be much of an effect on this and there's not going to be any damage because of that; it can, in fact, be an easier form or form that the bad bank itself gives us, because now it doesn't need to negotiate credit creditors, that 75 percent when we have a bad bank and when these bad claims are in one way or another at a bad bank. Either way, it will go from one place to how to deal with this debt, where even from this point of view it is in some way already arranged and will be able to reprogram the loan, it will be able to recapitalise, you have the option, and of course it will also have the appropriate back cover in legislation and also in guarantees and in money to do so. [[…]] In short, I would like to cut the Nordic knot once and for all, to do one thing by really giving the results and by addressing the problems we are facing, once and for all, solve the problem, why there is always a problem in these cases of dealing with bad companies, why this always means the end. We should be able to save companies such as this construction; different companies went bankrupt without need, creditors could be assured, negotiated and continued the process with one part of the company. However, when the bankruptcy procedure begins, and everything else stops, everyone breaks down, there is no longer one to be in a state – the bankruptcy managers have no interest, their interest is as long as possible the process, as long as possible the valuation, as much cost as possible and all these things. It's practically the beginning of the end. No bankruptcy manager has, for example, when we were operating in the bankruptcy phase with production, we had to calculate very precisely for each day that we are making profit and increasing the bankruptcy mass alone. [[…]] In the final stages of all these bankruptcys, I have not seen any case in which, for example, inside the company or in any way, creditors could form certain environments and that the court would allow them to continue through the bankruptcy management directly. In Mura, I was hired by the bankruptcy manager Mure d.d. I said, can I get a contract when we've had a thousand 500 people to rent this for a longer period of time because I can't do business on a contract that has six months – just the absurdity of these bureaucratic restrictions that we're giving. A contract can be signed for a maximum of 6 months on the rental of all machines and a thousand 500 people; however, if someone buys the spaces we sell in the action, you have to stop and go out tomorrow, we will order you to do that. We had such a contract — a complete nonsense! You hired practically so many people, you drove it all around, you were addicted because you didn't have machines and equipment, you didn't have any other procedure that ran in the same yard, and it was practically impossible to get a contract. I asked the court to allow me a contract to rent for five years. I also asked for a lot of other things, but nothing was possible! The first auction will be tomorrow, the second one will be then, then it'll be done in pieces, then it will be done in one year. These are things that we've actually complicated ourselves. I don't know, it's probably different where these things go because we don't know how to do these things. I want us to be successful at this. I won't argue with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss this article. If not, we move on to the next article. This is on Article 12 and on the amendment tabled by the coalition. Does anyone want to discuss Article 12? If he does not, we are moving on to Article 37 and the amendment also tabled by the coalition. Anybody want to talk? If not, we move on to Article 48. The amendment of the coalition has also been tabled. There's no desire to discuss it. Proceed with Article 48a. An amendment to the coalition has been tabled. Anybody want a word? We're moving on to Article 49. This is the last amendment tabled by the coalitions to this amendment. Does anyone want a debate here? [[No, no, ……]] If he does not wish, we will conclude the debate and decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the votes. This will be half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed law on the macro-prudential supervision of the financial system. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to have the word of a representative of the Government, whom I do not currently see. The Minister probably won't be on behalf of the government, so we'll move on to the committee report. I ask the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, monetary policy, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 22nd session 5. 11. 2013 as a parent labour body, he considered the draft law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. We received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments to certain articles. We have received materials: the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, the letter from the Securities Market Agency and the review of amendments. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Articles 3, 5, 9, 14, 15, 19, 21 of the Act. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that by adopting a law regulating macroprudential supervision of the financial system in order to improve supervision of financial institutions. Here macro surveillance will be carried out by the Financial Stability Committee, including in the light of calls and proposals from the European Council. This world will be chaired by the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. In a short discussion, it was stressed that the law would bring greater control over financial institutions, thus persuading possible future risks in the financial system. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all amendments, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I propose that such a version be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much to the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Marko Pavlišič on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In 2011, the European Systemic Risk Committee, the ESRB, adopted a recommendation aimed at improving the effectiveness of macroprudential control in the Member States of the European Union. In its recommendation, the ESRB advised the establishment of a national authority to carry out macro-bonnet control and ensure the stability of the financial system. To this end, a proposal for a law on macro-prudential supervision of the financial system has been prepared to enable the establishment of a Committee on Financial Stability. In accordance with the recommendations of the ESRB, this Committee monitored to ensure financial stability with a view to reducing systemic risks and the sustainable contribution of the financial sector to economic growth. In accordance with its responsibilities, the Committee will be able to formulate recommendations or guidelines to be addressed to a particular supervisory authority. This guidance will not interfere with the independence of the supervisory authority, but it will have to justify non-compliance with the guidelines. We welcome the law in the Civil Gazette, but at the same time we wonder if so many new committees and subcommittees should be formed. In our view, it might be more reasonable that, on the example of some European countries, all powers of control over the financial system should be exercised from one place and thus ensure better transparency of the system while at the same time making the use of public funds more efficient. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr. Ribič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, the Ministry! As we have already heard today, the law under consideration follows the recommendation of the European Systemic Risk Committee that individual countries also set up an internal supervisory authority to monitor the stability of the national financial system. In our case, the so-called Financial Stability Committee will consist of two representatives of Banka Slovenije, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Ministry of Finance, and will be led by the Governor of Banka Slovenije. It probably makes no sense today to ask where such a committee was in 2008, but the fact is that some countries have a similar body dealing with systemic risks at macro level all the time and have therefore acted appropriately when it was necessary and responded immediately to the crisis. Clearly, we were not forced by the crisis to form such a body, but by the recommendation of the European Authority. It is also true that there are also countries where such supervision is fully coordinated by the Central Bank. This would probably not work for us, since until six months ago our central bank had publicly convinced us that there is nothing too critical about our banks. We probably can't put an account on her, too, for the billions of euros to be allocated to the resolution of the banking system, even because the country has responded too late to the banking crisis. In short, what I am trying to say is that the mere assembly of some committees, which are themselves intended, will not prevent us from situations of crisis in the future. These agencies, for the securities market and insurance supervision, should already actively cooperate with both the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance. These agencies must now draw attention to possible economic imbalances and systemic risks at least for their areas of responsibility, as Banka Slovenije must actively do. The excuses that all these authorities do not have the legal power to act together, we do not feel in place in the Slovenian People's Party, because we all know that where there is will, there is also a way. The bigger problem is when there is no will to cooperate. Of course, in the Slovenian People's Party, we do not object to the establishment of such a body, but it is more important than the establishment of the Financial Stability Committee itself that it will carry out its work at the highest possible professional level, which we do not doubt, and more importantly, that one of the competent ones in our country will also take it into account. Why do I point out this – because many times neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Government as a whole do not take professional recommendations into account, although we do not lack experts in Slovenia who have good ideas, who are familiar with areas that know very well where the problems are and what solutions are for them. Regrettably, then, the policy of establishing a state economic policy does not normally listen to them, but rather, on behalf of social peace, but in the name of loving peace within the coalition, it adopts rotten compromise solutions without a vision of what will happen next month. As has already been said, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law establishing the Committee for the Control of the Stability of the Financial System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u75	Very nice, Mr. Fish. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! In the DeSUS Group, we have adopted a position to support the proposal for a law on macroprudential supervision of the financial system adopted on the home working body or committee. The purpose of the law is to introduce closer supervision of financial institutions that will take care to prevent the risks envisaged in the financial system. We estimate that the proposed solutions to the law are appropriate and follow the objectives pursued by the proposer, and we expect an up-to-date implementation in practice. At the same time, we are aware that there is still some importance for effective cooperation in the exchange and control of supervisors, as this contributes to a detailed and comprehensive review of the financial system and that partial review serves only individual financial segments or sectors. Therefore, for the full picture of control and action, we need a review of all sectoral supervisors, as it is only by showing the effectiveness of the overall supervisory financial system. The main objective is undoubtedly the establishment of an independent Financial Stability Committee, which will carry out effective macro-prudential supervision of the financial system. The tasks of this Committee shall include, inter alia, mandatory reports. The required tasks will thus require a high level of up-to-date and related actions, findings, rapid response to the perception of the accumulation of risks that can prevent the serious consequences for the financial system. We are confident that this amendment to the law on macroprudential supervision of the financial system will help prevent or reduce systemic risks and thus ensure a stable financial sector in the context of economic growth. As has already been said, we will support changes in the law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary of State! The proposal for the law under consideration constitutes the implementation of the recommendation of the European Systemic Risk Committee of 22 December 2011, the essence of which is that there is an appropriate supervisory authority at national level for effective – I underline effective – macroprudential supervision. The area of supervision of financial system institutions is divided into several supervisors in our legal order: the Bank of Slovenia, which supervises banks, savings banks and credit institutions, the Securities Market Agency, which supervises the capital market, and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which supervises insurance undertakings. All these institutions shall exercise control only within the framework of their respective competences. Risks that quickly flow over the entire banking system may start to accumulate in the individual financial sector. The macro-prudential financial supervision law is the legal basis for the establishment of the Financial Stability Committee responsible for the supervision of the financial system as a whole. The Committee shall consist of 8 members, consisting of representatives of existing supervisory institutions, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia. The main task of the Committee is to develop macroprudential policies. The Committee will act as a consultative body in the area of risk assessment for financial stability, obtain and analyse data from individual supervisory authorities, give guidance to supervisory authorities and the like. And now the comments of New Slovenia on the text of the law under consideration. In Novi Slovenija we would like to draw attention to the lack of legal provisions on the responsibility of the members of the Committee for their work within the framework of the Committee on Financial Stability. 20. Article 20 of the bill requires members of the committee to act with the care of a good expert, but does not provide for their material and criminal responsibility for their work or dismissal. Although the Committee is a consultative body, in our view, this full responsibility of the members of the Committee for Individual Decisions would ensure effective macroprudential control, as expected by the European Systemic Risk Committee. Despite these shortcomings in New Slovenia, we believe that the proposal represents a small step, but a step towards better and effective control of the financial system as a whole, and we will therefore support the Members of the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, Mr Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u80	Your Honor! In fact, the circumstances and circumstances that have underpinned the proposal for a law on macroprudential supervision of the financial system need not be specifically presented. The problems in the financial system have changed from occasional to more permanent, covering all areas of the financial system and infecting other related and key subsystems of the company. Let me just mention the economy and the social field. The European Union reacted to the situation, but it did so also because of its own, original, monetary and banking architecture with delays. But today the transition to the banking union is more or less a fact that there are no serious alternatives. Slovenia is certainly among the members of the euro in both the delay and the contested decisions among the delayees. This is how it is assessed by international institutions and also by individuals, experts. The paradoxical fact is, however, that in the overall confusion of attempts in the Mediterranean countries, due, for example, to its small economy, the moderate relationship between the volume of bank assets, deposits to citizens and gross domestic product, on the other hand, is suitable for testing mechanisms, how to "resolve" a country with excessive problems. All the euro crises are not the same, but the banking crisis is not yet so far. In Ireland and Cyprus, the overblown banking sector left an account they could not settle. In Greece, banks have been victims of the collapse of national financial credibility, but the same is true everywhere; without permanent recovery, there can be no comprehensive recovery. Macroprudential policy and macroprudential control, which are key to risk assessment and the use of controls on instruments for their main prevention, are, however, concepts that go beyond or can be said to go far beyond merely exposed banking problems. It turns out that the interconnectivity of the functions of the financial system – mainly credit institutions, the capital market, insurance companies, financial conglomerates – is important for companies that rent others. While individual segments are controlled, they do not have a legal basis for joint action. The recommendation of the European Systemic Risk Committee is therefore reasonable. The effectiveness of macroprudential control at national and European Union level needs to be urgently improved. By law, the key role will be played by the Financial Stability Committee. The branch is an independent body which, for its work, seems particularly important to us, is responsible to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the Committee's tasks and tools, in particular the different orientations that are divided into 3 groups into recommendations, warnings and instructions, the Committee on Financial Stability's parliamentary group and its responsibilities is highly respected. Since its work with regard to the regional supervisory authorities is based on the principle of action or clarification, let us also add to the relationship between the National Assembly and the Financial Stability Committee the same – act or explain. We support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. That's a nice hello to you all! We will support the law on macroprudential supervision of the financial system in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We will only support it because we expect the adoption of this law, and in particular its consistent implementation, to contribute to the regulation and normalisation of effective control over the entire financial system in Slovenia. In the past, this control of the financial system has obviously not been sufficient or has been completely ineffective, and we are now facing major problems in the functioning of our banking system and the large financial holes that range into billions of euros. How large these financial holes will reveal the results of the stress tests that are still being carried out. Although the proposal for a law on macro-prudential supervision of the financial system takes into account the recommendation of the European Systemic Risk Committee, in the SDS Group we believe that such a law and such a way of participating in individual supervisory financial institutions should also be required without such recommendations. Under current legislation, such sector supervisors as the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance and Control Agency have only the powers to control a limited part of the financial system and not as a whole. The supervisors of all these institutions were able to cooperate informally, but did not have a legal basis for joint action. In addition, the review of the financial system as a whole was limited, as sector supervisors had only the power to review a single segment of the overall financial system. The adoption of this law will undoubtedly improve the control of financial institutions. The establishment of a special committee composed of the leading people of the previously mentioned institutions and the financial ministry will ensure the possibility of such macroprudential policies in the Republic of Slovenia, which will contribute to the protection of the stability of the financial system and the prevention or reduction of systemic risks. This should also increase their share by the financial sector in order to promote the necessary economic growth. The work of this committee will be completely independent, as this independence will already be ensured by the composition of this Committee and the limitations on the voting rights of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. However, it is stipulated in the law that the Committee should report its work to the National Assembly once a year, until 30 June of the previous year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, from all the above, we expect that after the adoption of this law and consistent implementation, the situation in the Slovenian financial system will begin to improve, and that is why, as announced in the introduction, this law will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u84	Respected and respected! Do not doubt my personal and our common ability to explain all the reasons why the law on macroprudential control of the financial system will be supported. We are pleased at the consensus that exists at this point in the National Assembly and, therefore, we are even more pleased to support the law and thus to exercise more effective control over financial institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. We have also concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we conclude with a second reading of the bill. We will vote in accordance with the timetable today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 33. This is for the consideration of the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State of Mags. Mathiy Mavka. Mitji [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! As mentioned, you have before you the Proposal for a Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012, which reports on the implementation of the budget in 2012. From the document before you, allow me to mention the key features. The revenue of the State budget in 2012 was EUR 7 billion 887 million and the expenditure of the state budget amounted to EUR 8 billion 993 million, resulting in a budget deficit of EUR 106.5 million or EUR 35 million more in 2012 than envisaged by the State budget. This means that the budget deficit was 3.1 per cent of GDP compared to the 3 per cent foreseen by the balance sheet itself. The result of a slightly higher deficit is due to the movement of revenue and the movement of expenditure; budget revenues in 2012 were lower by a good €55 million than was planned at the time of the rebalancing. On the income side, for a good 19 million euros, capital revenues were less realized, and for about 46 million euros, EU funds were less received. On the expenditure side, the realisation of expenditure for a good EUR 20 million was lower, according to the 2012 state budget rebalancing, i.e. the current expenditure was around €97 million lower, with some €27 million lower realisation for investment expenditure and transfers, while some €13 million less was paid to the EU budget, with spending on current transfers being higher by €88 million. We are all well aware that the implementation of the budget in 2012 has been significantly affected by the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, which, with its consequences, intervened in more than 20 other laws with direct financial implications, which, in addition to covering additional obligations – for example, for interest, the creation of an additional reserve for increased EU funds and horizontal measures, in particular in the areas of labour costs, labour market and social protection, and other measures – had a significant impact, as stated, on the implementation of the budget. The 2012 rebalancing also planned a net of EUR 485 million inflows from the EU budget for European funds. A net surplus of EUR 450 million was realised, representing approximately 93% of the originally planned. In conclusion, there is a movement of government debt in 2012. At the end of 2012, the government budget was 16.8 billion euros and 47.4% of GDP and increased net in 2012 by 1.7 billion euros. As it is said, the Government's proposal is for the National Assembly to confirm the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Mavko. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I'm giving the president a word. Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Indeed, the Commission for Public Finance Supervision is 7. 11. This proposal for the final budget account for 2012 has been treated as the parent working body. Following the introduction presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance today, the President of the Court of Auditors, who said that, following the revision of the proposal of the final account, they had given an opinion with a reservation to the general part of the final account, as well as an opinion with reservation to the correctness of execution or the correctness of its execution. With regard to the general part of the final account, he pointed out some cases of books which, in their view, led to the fact that revenues and expenditure were not properly shown. According to their calculation, revenues should be higher by 48 million, but this would be eliminated if it were also taken into account the incorrect payment of the regression to public servants and the payment of the third quarter of the harmonisation of wages. Therefore, this did not have a significant impact on the balance sheet alone. With regard to the correctness of the budget implementation, the President of the Court of Auditors explained that the opinions had been delivered with reservation due to numerous violations of the legal rules which are repeated year after year in the implementation of the budget. The greatest errors are in the light of the implementation of the Public Finance Act and in the light of public procurement. In accordance with its legal role, the Court of Auditors made corrections to the auditors, which the Government did not fully take into account. If so, the Court of Auditors’ opinion would not be subject to reservation. Recommendations and a request for a response report to be submitted within 90 days have also been made. In particular, in the debate of the members of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, the problem was raised that the auditor, in this case the Ministry of Finance, and the other ministries and the Government do not take account of and correct the errors identified by the Court of Auditors and do not find any common language. The discussion on budget planning, in particular its revenue, was particularly important, and the analogy is being drawn up this year and with the planned budgets for the next two years. The Secretary of State said that new legislation was being prepared to substantially change budget planning and implementation, namely the fiscal rule law, which we had not seen before, as well as amendments to the Public Finance Act and the Accounting Act. It has also highlighted the problem of fixed state budget expenditure, since it is premeditated with legal obligations already over 80 per cent of budget expenditure, and this makes it extremely difficult to draw on European funds as well as some of the development ambitions of budgetary documents. More than 35,000 of these are valued at 1 euro. The reasons for this were also given. The Commission then opened a discussion on state property or whatever property the State has at all. There is still a problem that there are no single records and, as a result, a large doubt, or a gap between the financial burden on property taxes imposed. The Commission concluded that it had committed the Government to provide it with a list of immovable property owned directly and indirectly by the State with the estimated value of GURS, and the Commission also requested the Government to provide it with a list of movable property worth more than EUR 5,000 within the same period. In part, the Government has complied with this decision because we have recently received a list of sorts, and finally the Commission for Public Finance Supervision has also adopted a decision that the National Assembly will adopt the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia and that is why we have finished our work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! We all know what year it was in 2012. The economic crisis has only just begun to show its teeth well after the government of Borut Pahor fell into the water to cope with the crisis through intensive indebtedness through high public financial deficits. The crisis did not go away on its own, as the problems facing Slovenia, structural nature and these problems should be solved and not delayed. Even in a political sense, it was not a simple year after we experienced several months of free running due to the collapse of the government and the holding of the national elections at the end of 2011, the new government started well in March. Let's see what was the state of Slovenian public finances in early 2012, according to data from the Statistical Office on current deficits. In 2009, 2 billion and 250 million minus in the state Treasury or 6.3 percent of gross domestic product, in 2010 2 billion and 80 million minus or 5.9 percent of gross domestic product, in 2011 2 billion and 290 million euro minus in the state Treasury or again 6.3 percent of GDP. And then comes the year 2012 which we are considering today. According to the Secretary of the Finance Ministry, the budget deficit has reached 3.1 per cent of GDP, accounting for one billion and 100 million minus in the state budget. However, if we wanted to be correct, I would rather touch on the October report on the excessive deficit and debt drawn up by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. This says the deficit for 2012 is estimated at 3.8% of GDP, or one billion and 350 million euros. Sure, still a lot. Too much! However, compared to the figures I mentioned before, we see a great shift towards a better balance of public finances. A large part of this burden has been taken over by the Public Finance Balance Act and although some of the solutions have been subsequently repealed from a constitutional point of view, today no one can deny the serious financial effects of this law. Thus, the State Secretary's very eloquent statement, which stated on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision at the time of the closing account that the lower implementation had been demonstrated in all categories of expenditure, except for ongoing transfers where spending was higher by EUR 88 million than envisaged by the rebalancing. These are mainly social transfers to the unemployed and other socially disadvantaged. For the first time since 2008, the consumption of the country has decreased. The 2012 budget is thus proof that we also know how to behave in a responsible and more rational manner in this country, that we are aware of the seriousness of the situation and that only regulated public finances enable the long-term performance of the country. Just keeping your eyes closed before the reality doesn't help. By the way, the volume of public sector wage funds, which has grown steadily practically throughout history, fell for the first time in 2012, by 5.68 per cent year-on-year. According to the previous year, the number of employees in government budget consumers, i.e. the state administration system, decreased by 3.13 per cent or a thousand 69 employees. It's a big tax! I certainly don't want to say that everything was fine last year. Systemic reforms of subsystems are still needed, both the broad reform of the public sector and wage systems as well as health, school, tax reform. Even after the great economic crisis, and if Slovenia does not now make these changes, we will be forced to do so by our economy, which will be increasingly less and less competitive because of our failure to act. And the final 2012 account indicates that both structural movements and self-restraint are needed, because Europe will never be the same as it was before the crisis; that is, when Slovenia went relatively well. Therefore, as a member of the Slovenian People's Party, I am concerned that the trend we set out in 2012 will not continue. The report of the Statistical Office on the surplus estimates that the deficit of the country in 2013 is projected to be EUR 2 billion or 5.7 per cent of gross domestic product, and that the gross consolidated debt of the country at the end of 2013 will exceed 63 per cent of gross domestic product. Do we know what this means – that we are going back in time before 2012! True, this year too was marked by a political crisis, but since then there has been no agreement on any austerity policy in the ruling coalition. The budget wants to be balanced, but not with the emphasis on managing expenditure, but with higher taxes to increase revenue. What this means for our economy, for our exporters, for all those who have to compete in demanding international markets, is probably not to be highlighted. Your Honor! The final budget account for 2012 proves that budget planning in 2012 was an undeniable step in the right direction. Not only has it reduced the minus in the state treasury, but it has not directly affected Slovenian companies and entrepreneurs, craftsmen, farmers and other employees in the real sector. And most importantly, he let the real sector breathe, let him create, which we certainly cannot claim to be the policy of the current government, which brings us back to the time when we owe ourselves, in the hope that tomorrow will be better. At the same time, this government coalition is unable to agree on any real reform change. If I am not mistaken, the recently retired Minister of Health has made this very clear. Therefore, we will support Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party of the Final Account proposal for 2012. After several years of high surplus deficit trend, this is the first account to indicate normalisation of the situation in Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would like such practices to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well-known representatives of the Ministry of Finance, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The DeSUS Group will support the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. The final budget account shall be a realisation document showing the revenue and expenditure for the previous year. Thus, in 2012 the revenue of the State budget amounted to EUR 7,887 billion was realised, which means that EUR 55 million was lower than planned in the second state budget rebalancing. The expenditure realised was €8 billion 993 million or €20 million less than planned in the second balance. The budget deficit thus amounted to €1,106 billion, or 3.1 per cent of gross social product, which was 0.1 per cent more than planned. Due to the higher budget deficit than planned, additional indebtedness was needed and total debt at the end of 2012 was 47.4 per cent of gross social product. On the remuneration side, in 2012, compared with the planned tax revenue of 56 million euros, the tax rate for 48 million euros was lower and the capital income was less than 17 million. It's a 31% realisation. The extremely low realisation of the sale of state property and of the funds received from the European Union is 46 million less. On the expenditure side, all expenditure groups, with the exception of current €179 million more, and investment transfers worth €15 million more, achieved lower current expenditure levels – 98 million less; investment expenditure – €13 million less; European Union budget payments of €13 million. For the whole of social security, expenditure of EUR 2 billion, 432 million, or EUR 58 million, was realised in 2012. So the realisation is 97.7 percent. Under this social security policy, pension and disability insurance or protection were exempt from the EUR 1 billion 363 million, or 35 million less than planned in the adopted budget. So the realisation was 97.5%. For health care, only 56.6 per cent is realized, or 68 million euros less realised than planned in the previous year. In the DeSUS Group, we find that the funds for the purpose of healthcare have decreased significantly, i.e. for almost one half, and we note that this can have very serious consequences for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who need health care, especially for the older population. The Court of Auditors’ opinion as the competent auditor of the State budget is also not negligible, as the opinion, with a reservation to the general part of the final account and to the correctness of its implementation, points to a situation for which, in our view, action is needed, at all on the expenditure side. For the future, I would point out that, given the general economic and social situation in the country and the strict austerity measures, cuts should be considered, if not for the abolition of large purchases for information technology and vehicle purchases. Not to mention how much funding is earmarked for the success of public sector employees. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that such planning does not show a development-oriented budget, but even less rational and prudent spending. In the hope that we will only balance the public financial balance in the future, we will support the final account for 2012, which is only the realisation of the planned, in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! Budget revenue was slightly less than 8 billion in 2012 and expenditure was around 9 billion euros. The budget deficit amounted to 3.1% of gross domestic product and approached the objectives of the current government, in which we, too, participated as a coalition party, were pursued and largely resulted from the measures taken to reduce the public financial deficit. This is mainly the so-called "known ZUJF", which has produced some results already in the financial year 2012, in particular in the area of the reduction of expenditure on salaries and other remuneration of public servants and will deliver a large part of the results in the financial year 2013. In presenting the position of the New Slovenia Group on the Proposal for a Final Account for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012, I will focus on some important issues which have a significant impact on budgetary revenue as well as expenditure. I would like to say something, however, that in 2012, the government managed to significantly reduce the budget deficit by comparing 2012 to the year before, as in 2011. According to 2011 the budget deficit has practically halved and this is a tectonic shift in government policy, which controlled 2012 compared to the government, which is the government of Slovenia in 2011. We can say that we were not successful in drawing on European funds in 2012. This issue has been repeated for several years in a row, and we have missed quite a few opportunities to obtain funds within the financial perspective that is running out this year. There must be an important reason for this failure, on the part of excessive red tape and the dispersion of services concerned with European funds between different ministries. These shortcomings have been dragging on for years, but we haven't been able to fix them all this time, I'm afraid. At this point, we do not know who is responsible for this policy at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, regardless of the fact that we have the Minister in departure, after the departure of the Secretary of State of Monika Kirbiš Royce, Members of Parliament, at least the opposition, we do not know who cares about more efficient European funds. And these are the only means of development in this country. As we are moving forward to the next financial perspective, which will last from 2014 to 2020, we expect the government to draw up an appropriate strategy to make these funds more efficient. In the new financial perspective, the Republic of Slovenia will have a total of €3.3 billion available for the implementation of the cohesion policy of the European Union. It is practically, as has already been said, the only available development resources, so their importance is so much greater. Slovenia, like the other Member States of the European Union, must draw up some documents that will serve as a basis for drawing on European funds. We are looking forward to the preparation and conclusion of the so-called Partnership Agreement, which will represent a treaty between the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of cohesion policy in the financial perspective 2014-2020. It lays down the so-called ‘preliminary conditions’ to be met by the State. One such is the preparation of a smart specialisation strategy. We propose to the government that, in preparing the programming documents for the period 2014 to 2020, focus on the area where there is the greatest opportunity to contribute to improving economic growth and new jobs, especially if there are sufficient natural potentials and human resources for them. The second issue I would like to draw attention to is the issue of the use of budget resources for information technology or information systems. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the problem, at least in our opinion, the excessive share of external expenditure. Accurate information on how much funding is earmarked for these services, despite the promises of the Ministry of Finance, we have not received Members until today, but they are undoubtedly high. We are convinced that within the public administration we have enough experts who are trained to prepare appropriate programming solutions and that the involvement of external operators – and the associated costs – is often unnecessary. Much more should be done in the area of interconnection of individual programmes. Unnecessary duplication of records or redundancies of data by different authorities would be avoided. In terms of expenditure, I would also touch on the areas of poor governance of the Republic of Slovenia. In its audit report, the Court of Auditors drew attention to deficiencies in the value of State assets and to a low percentage of assets from the sale of state assets. We expect that legislative changes in the governance of the country's real estate and the self-governance of the local community adopted in 2012 will be reflected in the better results of managing this property in this and subsequent financial years. Here I am thinking in particular of the possibility of transferring the state's assets to the local community and more flexible possibilities for renting assets. Members of the New Slovenia Group accept the Proposal for a Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. As I said in the introduction, this year, 2012, there was a tectonic shift in terms of reducing the budget deficit, especially if we compare this with 2011. In our 2012 policies, we were also led by two axioms; this is austerity and entrepreneurship. These are two axioms that are crucial to the development of society. I expect and hope the current government knows them as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Aloj Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you. Respected, the budget, of course, is not just a technical or professional question, it is also and in particular a reflection of the economic situation and inevitably points to the policy and responsibility of the then coalition. About the last one first. About the situation and the politics. In the year on which our present closing account is due, it is very early and they seriously question why the recession in Slovenia struck so violently. There were several doctrinal answers at work, and there was very little experience at work. It has become clear a year earlier that the crisis will not be short and that it will no longer be possible to return to the point of 2007. By the way, on November 19, 2013, a few days ago, Nobel laureate Paul Krugman addressed a column in the New York Times with a grumpy title: Permanent Fall, where the state of soft depression describes as the new normality of the next decade. I'd say tectonic thought. Whatever. Slovenia tightened the belt with the ZUJF in 2012 and went through two budget rebalancings. The first to introduce a new policy and the second to correct the consequences of a new policy that was not expected but could be predicted: declining investments, lower wages, of course, lower consumption with lower revenues. All of this has imbalanced government revenue and expenditure. The second reason was completely new – the problem of public finances. In the public financial deficit, there are items that do not relate to traditional public spending but reflect the over-indebtedness of businesses and banks. The amounts, when the state intervenes as the owner of the extreme force, go to the sky. Let me just say this: because of the eternal issue of guilt, including the extremely serious and profound social economic crisis, the policy on both sides - I repeat, the policy on both sides - has found no sense of urgency for extending social and political alliances or consensus. As the thought is disgusting, it holds in many ways. Political instability has a high price and constantly exposes it without reservation. As a result, the final accounts of the budget can be professionally impeccable, and the Court of Auditors' annual audit on the same issues, on the same lines and on the same issues, accompany us with the opinion given with reservation, which is difficult to understand and after a few years is unacceptable. The comparisons of individual items between implementation and plans makes little sense to waste time since the budget went twice through the process of rebalancing, which, of course, is the calculation calibration of all derogations. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the final accounts for 2012 – if I say so in the language of the Court of Auditors – subject to reservation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the mag will present its position. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers! First of all, the rhetorical question of how this is known on the key, the support with reservation, is not clear to me, and I believe I will learn more in this House. The final budget account for 2012 reflects the revised policy in crisis times in view of the period before that, in view of the period 2009 to 2011. Indeed, this period between 2008 and 2009 and 2011 was recorded with an extreme economic downturn, a heavy downturn and huge deficits, with little happening on the expenditure side of the budget in terms of rationalisation of savings. This is why the new government, which just took place in 2012, changed this policy and the results are as follows. The results are that she reduced her deficit by nearly one billion. The deficit amounted to 1.1 billion and was 3.1% of GDP, which is a good result, and in my opinion the government would be or would be proud this year if this result were to repeat or achieve it. Of course it didn't just happen. Certain measures had to be taken, including unpopular measures, and the Public Finance Balance Act was one of these. It is also true that the 2012 budget was balanced or set to such a low deficit also due to a reduction in certain investments. However, some investments, hand-to-heart, could not be carried out because the previous government took place in February and could actually do what it projected towards this level to be implemented. I would like to say another dimension why, even in the previous term, it has passed, or even in 2012 – and the final account reflects this – has passed relatively peacefully when we are talking about relations with the social partners. Indeed, 2012 was the year of relatively fruitful social dialogue and negotiation. The current government would warmly recommend that it follow the example of those times. Let me mention some of the important achievements of this social dialogue. The first is that we have managed to harmonise the origins of the social agreement. This was agreed and also signed. To harmonise or harmonise to the highest level, we have harmonised the Public Finance Balance Act and have also reached agreement with the police who have blocked this operation and adoption. The pension reform was also coordinated with the social partners. I will not mention labour market reform because it was only early this year. I would also like to say that the current government would also be able to implement the budget effectively, as it is, to try to serve good practices to the greatest extent possible and to have an effective social dialogue. Let me mention, in essence, the conceptual policy of the previous government, reflected in this final account, the visa of planning of this government, or the risks posed by such planning. The conceptual dissension is that in 2012 there was much to be done to rationalise certain areas of operation of the country with pay-offs, by prejudices to certain legal rights and that it did not actually interfere with the raising of taxes. Of course, raising taxes would be just a back-up scenario in order to avoid reaching commitments after the surplus deficit has been corrected. I believe that this policy should continue to be followed this year, as there is more to rationalising this country. I believe there's a whole bunch of services and offices that operate completely needlessly. Let's just say I'm a little challenging because I also got one e-mail to be more specific. For example, I wonder why there is no will to abolish, for example, the Public Payments Authority. He manages some of the tasks of the former SDK and I really wonder why a few hundred people – I don't know how many of them are there, I hear that around 200 – perform some functions, some things that I think could be greatly simplified, deregulation, and probably eliminate some unnecessary administrations and services in this country. I am also sure that we do not need such a rich operation of various consensators at virtually every step of our lives, especially when we are trespassing into space. There is also countless possibilities for simplification, deregulation, the abolition of certain powers and consequently the rationalisation of the functioning of the country, debarcation, not to mention synergies that such effects would have on the economy or also on the attractiveness of Slovenia when we are talking about foreign direct investment. So I say that this concept before the tax rise is better, in a way more open and also provides conditions for economic activity, because only economic and increased economic activity can lead us out of the volume of crisis in which, as one rare country, we are obviously located and, in fact, we are the only country with a recession or negative economic growth in the coming year. So, respectable, just some refreshment in the final accounts or in the budget planning of the last five-year period is this final account for 2012, where one government has proved that it can also cut itself into already acquired rights, thereby rationalising the functioning of the country and reducing the budget deficit. Probably no government would have decided to interfere with the rights acquired if income could cover this spending. However, as this has become permanently unsustainable, I also place a warm heart on the present government to have a little self-reflection, to look a little in the mirror, to see where there are certain irrationalities and, with some reform, to eliminate the functioning of the public apparatus.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u100	By the way, it will now be some bad 20 years since we decided to liberalise and deregulation in the field of the institution, which we have called the SDK, the Social Accounting Service, has been abolished and radically transformed into two institutions, far less weight, influence and potential. And whoever you ask in the country today will say that the abolition of the Social Accounting Service was one of the key mistakes that have greatly enabled the current problems. So any deregulation and any liberalisation is not a useful thing. It would also be good to have the mirror placed among the predecessors who praised the budgetary policy of the former government, which is also shown by this final account. We Social Democrats have a policy of speeding up public spending, public spending, as well as reducing transfers, which have had a significant impact on the one hand of reducing public spending and on the other hand domestic consumption, which, as a result of both this final account and some of the assessments of respected international institutions, has made a significant contribution to the fact that the slip was in economic growth, that high negative growth was achieved in 2012. This is a point that allows debate on the history and past economic policy measures. I would not like to warm up this kind of debate here, but the fact is that any economic policy of this or other government has effects not only on the year it manages the country, but on a much longer-term basis. Even for the decline in economic growth this year, which can be linked to similar reasons as for the fall in 2012, it can be claimed the same. Well, because the opposition often urges us to plan poorly to bring the Social Democrats' position to the final 2012 account with only one comparison. The last balance of last year's budget was adopted in the National Assembly on 29 December, i.e. only two days before the financial year ended at all. Nevertheless, the expenditure of the state budget for EUR 20 million is decommissioned and revenue is less than EUR 55 million than planned, despite the fact that the rebalancing was only adopted two days before the end of the financial year. It is also worth noting that the debt of the State in 2012 was higher than its net indebtedness because of the Government's actions. Together, we are indebted to €2.9 billion, and it is true that an important part of this waste on pre-financing for this year has been created, thus creating a net debt of €1.6 billion – by the way, this was also more than was planned by the budget adopted. Social Democrats do not want to question these numbers because we understand that this is part of the implementation budget policy, but it would be good to draw attention to these dualities at least when one party likes to interpret the data just as it meets its political objectives. The budgetary policy in 2012 has greatly exacerbated the economic, financial and social situation in the country, as it has been betting on too quickly, too little gradual fiscal consolidation, and this has made Slovenia's access to international financial markets significantly more difficult together with the reckless statements made by the state's top representatives. The current government is working to improve this situation in order to restore the credibility of Slovenia, and as we can see, some decisive and courageous moves of this government, including the received confidential and adopted budgetary documents, are already delivering results without any risky and decisive action, and the expected return on three-year bonds is expected to be realized this week. Finally, it can be argued that, without these courageous moves, it would not be possible to read in the international financial press of optimistic assessments and growing belief that Slovenia will avoid the temptation to apply for international financial assistance under the ESM or to buy off a debt country within other mechanisms within the European Union. The social democrats, who opposed the budgetary policy in 2012, today, because we believe that it is a matter of accurate and correct data reporting, will not oppose the adoption of the final account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mavko with co-workers, co-workers, respected lovers of the former SDK, as well as everyone else! 2012 is almost forgotten and all our views are already focused on next year. However, it is sometimes necessary to look back, especially in order to learn from past mistakes and not repeat them. Let me point out some points in 2012. This year, the salary weight decreased by 3.5 per cent for direct budget users and only by 1 per cent for indirect users. Similar trends are also observed in the number of employees where direct budget users decreased by 1.6 per cent, while indirect users increased by 1.3 per cent. With the second rebalancing, a debt of EUR 2 billion was set at 512 million. The implementation of the debt is referred to as €410 000,947 million, which means the implementation of the debt of 128.62 per cent planned. On the basis of the findings of the correctness of the implementation of the budget for 2012, the Court delivered an opinion with reservation. We should not be happy about this, even though this opinion is not new, but is repeated year after year. It is precisely this repetition of the same observations and recommendations of the Court of Auditors that we are concerned about in the National Gazette. It looks like the Court of Auditors' opinions and recommendations are coming through the ears to be heard and past the officials to be implemented and past the ministers to guide the work. We cannot go past one point in the 2012 budget. In 2012, the report found the final budget deficit still to be very high at EUR 106 million 452 000 476, almost 30% less than a year earlier. A key message of this fact is the almost 30% reduction in the budget deficit in one year, but it is possible to do a lot of things. Where there is a will, there is a way. Regardless of the exposed points, we received and accepted the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012 in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I can tell you that quite a few people who have applied for this wish have resigned. We'll give the word "magic" first. Matthew Tonino, followed by a mag. Ivan Vogrin, Matevž Frangež, Mr. Franc Bogovic, Mag. Andre Visiak, and then we're done. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u104	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much. The final budget account for 2012 is, in a way, our government's identity card. I am convinced that this ID card is not bad, that it is not as bad as it seems, and that those who have now troubled, for example, the debt price and some other thing, would, however, recall that the then government has, for a very long time, begun to deal realisticly with the balancing of public finances and we have finally begun to stop the free fall in economic terms, and should give those achievements some recognition. The main product of that policy or that budget was the ZUJF. Without the then ZUJF, the current government would have virtually nothing to show to Brussels, unfortunately that is the truth. If you look at the results or actual effects of the ZUJF, these started to show only in 2013 and without this ZUJF would simply not show anything. Now, if I look back and think about those famous times in 2012, if I can make a little joke, you'll all remember what a violent opposition it was back then. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the reduction of budgetary expenditure. [[…]] In short, I see that I am running out of time, so I will make it very clear that there is a clear difference between the then government policy and the present; that we are all betting on cutting or reducing budget expenditure and that the current government is betting on raising taxes. Globally and also in Europe, the policy of increasing taxes has shown that it does not lead in the right direction and is, sooner or later, the only solution to further cut into budgetary expenditure. The sooner you do that, the easier it'll be for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I quit.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Let's continue with the mags. Andrei Vissiak. He's quitting. Now I'm asking because we've reached the end of the list of debaters, because we still have time to discuss who else would like to discuss in time-sharing. Does the government want another word? [[No, no, ……]] This means that I can conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the Final Account proposal today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY – PROPOSAL OF A AMENDMENT LEGISLATION LAW, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 5 Members with a first-signed Jacob the Intercessor. With regard to this proposal of the Law, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the President of the Mandating-Voluntary Commission of Mags. Melliti Župevc for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the 20th session of the 7. 11. 2013 examined the proposal for a law amending the Law on Members, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jacob the Presectors to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption pursuant to Article 88 of the Constitution. The Commission received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and has no comments on it. The Commission was also informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal for a law. During the course of business, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments and the Commission has therefore moved to consider the draft law on the basis of Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure. The representative of the proponents said in the introductory explanation that the draft law follows the constitutional principles of the division of power, under which the independence of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government and the independence and independence of local self-government was stressed. Both principles require the establishment of an effective brake system and a balance between operators of different functions of authority. Amendments to the law eliminate the interesting incompatibilities of applications in which multiple officials act simultaneously. The next reason for amending the law, in their view, stems from the constitutional mandate of Members, whereby Members should represent the interests of all citizens. In the debate, the view was expressed that in the past, several attempts to regulate the incompatibility of the function of the Member State have been made, but that the party that submitted this proposal has always opposed such solutions to date. Some debaters also considered that the decision on the final solution to the issue was not easy. If, as a key reason for the adoption of this law by the applicants, the irreconcilability of the function of a Member and an official in the local community, to be definitively regulated, the question was also raised as to where the limits of this regulation were. Among other things, the question was raised as to whether such final regulation would also constitute a ban on the fifth part of Members, who would be able to send a Member in that country and how far we would go with it. Following the conclusion of the discussion, a decision was proposed on the basis of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and also a vote that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Members was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the Jakob Presecnik bill for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I must say that it is not easy to defend a proposal that has received a negative assessment in the parent's working body, so I am trying to do something positive from a negative assessment. The fact is, this law — first of all, what is the law? The law has two articles, one article speaks of the incompatibilities of a parliamentary function with the function of a municipal councilor and the other article says that the law enters into force at the first national elections. The existing Law on Members has been amended years ago. And interestingly, most of those who today oppose this merger were then advocating the incompatibilities of the mayoral, sub-district and secular functions. That's a fact. The fact is that at that time, in our parliamentary group – what the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission correctly presented – we opposed these arrangements. At that time, an amendment was adopted concerning the incompatibility of the Member with the mayoral or sub-martial function. While there was, I think that the amendment exempts the simultaneous exercise of the secular and parliamentary functions, so this simultaneous exercise remains an option in force. These are the facts. However, the fact is that, in my firm belief, the situation in these years has changed significantly in these recent mandates. I'm sure! If we look at the statistics or the number of municipal or municipal councillors in this composition of the National Assembly, this number is such that it has never been. For this reason, I say that this is widely known, not in the work of the National Assembly, but mainly in the work of the committees, and that many times the local interests are exposed significantly more than is comprehensible and necessary. The fact is also that many of us come from an environment where the constituency itself covers a large number of municipalities, so if someone is a saint in one of these congregations, then perhaps in 3, 4, 5 or more, and it certainly comes to the readings of those municipalities of those mayors, those municipalities, those citizens and citizens where this Member is not at home and is not a saint. Because of this, and also because of some but I think it makes no sense to debate for a long time – therefore, I firmly believe that the work of both the National Assembly and the work of individual municipal and city councils would be better if these compatibility were not. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable present, respected present – sorry, I should say that there should be no further comment, but I think it is just as right to address a woman, then a man, but it happened to me. The DeSUS Group attaches to the conclusion of the working body that this amendment to the Law on Members is inappropriate for further consideration. The reasons for the inadmissibility of the solution regarding the incompatibilities of the function of a Member and an official in the local community have already been explained in detail at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which is why I would not now repeat them here. The reasons why he is a proposer is the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which introduced this law, are extremely fragile; from the constitutional principles cited, the principles of integrity and incompatibility, the insurance of a self-governance local community. In any of these principles or possibly in any other provision of a legal or constitutional nature, no such requirement shall be found. Let us also recall that in 2011, when we adopted the incompatibility of the functions of the Member and the Mayor, the entire Slovenian People's Party's Group had two functions in which the tasks or duties of determining the competence of decision-making had been voted against. So, the Slovenian People's Party's Group voted against it in its entirety and then resisted all the scruples that this incompatibilities would not be accepted. Why? Of course because the Slovenian People's Party has the largest number of mayors. The Slovenian People’s Party also has a huge number of municipal saints. And now should we believe that they are really in favour of the solution they are proposing? Unfortunately, in the Dessus Group, we can't believe this. In my position, I can't get past the comment, the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State points out that this is a partial solution, since Members can still do their teaching work. This is said by the State authority, which, at the time of the debate in the National Assembly on the decision to abolish the Council of State, made it loudly known that it was the body of the legislative branch of authority, namely the second house, a real body, which is also a representative of the people, indirectly, and which has virtually no limitations on non-compatibilities. The members of the State Council are, of course, paid for the function of the state councilor, paid for the performance of the mayoral council, paid for the work of the supervisory authorities, paid for teaching, scientific work, can be representatives of trade unions and receive high wages and allowances. We therefore ask the proposer whether you are prepared to introduce a new Law on the State Council and correct this anomaly. In short, the DeSUS Group agrees with the conclusion of the working body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, he shall have the word mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u114	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! The law before us stipulates that Members should not be municipal saints at the same time. We Christian Democrats estimate that those Members, who are also municipal councillors, are not at odds with the interests and that we do not see any reason why these two functions could not be performed at the same time by a person. If we know that the Constitution divides our branches of government into three branches, namely the legislative, executive and judicial branches, and if we compare this matter at national and local level, then we can find that the legislative branch of the authorities at state level is represented by the State Council, at local level by the municipal council, and the executive branch of the government at state level by the Government and at local level by the mayor. Thus, even after this, let us say, the constitutional division of powers we do not see that at the same time the Member and the councillor would be in conflict of interest and that the legislative and executive branches of power would intertwine, as they did in the case of Members and Mayors. There are quite a few Members in this House, who are also municipal councillors. It is estimated that this also results in a number of good practices, that a number of information produced in the National Assembly is effectively transferred at the level of municipalities to the municipal councils and thus assist in the functioning of municipal councils and improve the effectiveness of municipal councils. But you know what the current mood is in the public, that we Members are guilty of things that we have not the slightest influence on, and that it is difficult to understand why a Member should not be a municipal councilman, but he could be president of a fireman's union or a fireman's commander if I do a bit of caricing. For all the reasons mentioned above, unfortunately in New Slovenia we will support the conclusion that this law is inappropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, he shall have the word mag. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u116	Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the law shall determine who is not to be elected as a Member and the irreconcilability of the function of a Member with other functions and activities. In the Law on Members, the irreconcilability of the function of a Member shall be laid down in Article 10. At the same time, the issue of the exercise of a higher number of functions and the mutual incompatibility of public functions as regards the function of a Member and a local official, in particular the mayor, has been raised more than eight times. Despite the many attempts mentioned above, the National Assembly did not address the issue of incompatible functions in accordance with the principles of government balance and local self-government autonomy until 2011. In Positive Slovenia, we would like to point out that the candidates of this amendment, as members of the parliamentary party that has been involved in the work of the National Assembly since the beginning, have rejected all of the above-mentioned proposals to establish incompatibility. The previous term of office of the National Assembly also opposed both the amendment of the Law on Members, which should provide that Members of the local community should not act professionally or unprofessionally as well as the novels which were adopted and which provided for the incompatibilities of the function of the Member and the mayor and the mayor of the local community. In the SLS, both laws argued that mayors and municipal councilors, who are also members of the National Assembly, would also guarantee that people and their local problems would be heard and represented at national level in the future. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia we do not understand the reasons which led to such a conversion in the views expressed so far. The latter leads us to a political decision that does not follow the purposes of the law, but, above all, the principle of political likeness. Whether this is also the case with the unwittingness of the proposer, it is not a matter of the opinion of the National Assembly, but, above all, of the electors and voters in the next elections. In Positive Slovenia, we do not oppose the irreconcilability of the function of the Member and Mayor and the Deputy Mayor in the local community, but point out that the two-time function of Members and Mayors in itself was not unconstitutional and illegal, but it was the interesting incompatibility of the roles in which they took place at the same time – legislative at the national level and enforceable at the municipal level. Both functions, at national and local level, were so different in their purpose and objectives that they could not be performed at the same time. On the basis of the above, it does not mean that the power of the same arguments, or the reasons for the incompatibility of the Member State and the functions of the mayor, is also to be used for incompatibilities with the function of a member of the municipal council. It is worth noting that differences are both in the manner of election and in the role and position in the system of municipal authorities compared to the mayor. The latter also applies in the light of the objective of conflict of interest prevention. One argument to maintain the dual function is that political parties are limited to the human resources potential or individuals who would be willing to perform their public functions. It is also worth noting that the European Charter of Local Self-Government focuses primarily on the reasons for non-conformity in the performance of executive functions as regards the non-conformity of functions. And also a comparative review of the incompatibility between the Member and the mayor shows that most countries determine only the incompatibility of these two functions and not the functions of other local authorities. Therefore, we will not support or support the proposed law in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This amendment to the Law on Members foresees the irreconcilability of a Member's function with the function of municipal councillor and is submitted, respected, by the proponents who have always opposed such attempts in the past, particularly when it comes to the compatibility or incompatibility of the function of the Member and the functions of the mayor. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore strongly doubt the sincerity of the proposers, stressing their concern for the protection of the principle of the division of power and the principle of the independence and independence of local self-government. On the other hand, we are also, with respect, disappointed that you are on the agenda, alone, in the work of the National Assembly, we always include topics that unfortunately mean dealing with ourselves. This mandate can certainly be described as record-breaking in this respect. Through continuous interventions in the form of various restrictions on the function and the position of Members, some try to be liked in public and to collect political cheap points. But such an approach certainly leads to the gradual erosion of the parliamentary function and, consequently, of the National Assembly as the institution of the legislative branch of power. In particular, in this mandate, we see that many simply do not understand or want to separate two key but different things, but they are pushing the whole thing into one basket. On the one hand, we have the role and position of Member, which is defined at the highest level in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in more detail in individual laws. We can probably agree that, in principle, there are no essential concerns at this point that the function of a Member from a constitutional point of view is inadequate or even poorly regulated. On the other hand, we have individual institutions of parliamentary functions and their conduct, which are unfortunately many times contrary to what is expected of a Member as a public official. Nevertheless, such unacceptable behaviours must not be and cannot be a reason or an excuse to interfere with the role and position of a Member at all times with individual restrictions. This is not the right way, since no constitutional or legal regulation will prevent the individual inappropriate conduct of Members and Members. This is primarily the responsibility of individuals who bear public functions and that we understand our position in some way and that we also act in some way. It is also the responsibility of political parties and other candidates to propose to individual public functions suitable candidates or candidates who will know and be able to perform such a function in accordance with certain standards, which is also expected of them in the public eye. We are of the opinion that the adoption of this law would in no way contribute to the greater responsibility of Members and Members in their conduct, and that is why we will not support this law and support the decision of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Civil Code, he shall have the word mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. How nice to meet you! In our vote on the proposal for a bill on Members of Parliament, we have abstained from doing so today. While we do not have much comment to the content itself, or in some way we can say that we support the idea that the secular and parliamentary functions would be incompatible, we reject the very way that the proposer in some way allowed in this legislative process. The Council of State is an institution that gives opinions on the proposals of the laws. This proposal was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council, which wrote a positive opinion, and in a way, if I say so, they rightly stated that, in the hearing of the Commission in the State Council, the proposers, i.e. the SLS party, had pointed out that their parliamentary group had always advocated the existence of the Council of State and had pointed out that they had also played a key role in the vote on the proposal to amend the Constitution, which proposed the abolition of the Council of State. Indeed, such conduct clearly proves that an account is coming for each drink, and we cannot, or we do not want, agree on it in the Civil Gazette. If I raise another case, recently in the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, we have put into the legislative process a so-called package for purified policies, which Mr Musculo's working address, which we wanted to prevent citizens charged with criminal proceedings from running for public office. None of the parliamentary parties supported us in this. Our proposal also seemed controversial to our colleagues from the SLS, and if I make this very simple, I ask you; they did not think that the Member was burdened with criminal proceedings, but it was disputed that he was, for example, a member of the Council of Local Communities or a municipal councilor. Perhaps I would also point out that two years ago, when the amendment of the Law on Members was considered in the second Assembly, it was repeatedly stressed that it was good for Slovenia to be mayor and Member. As to whether it is good for Slovenia to be a councilman and a member of the congregation, it is only right to decide whether or not to open a broader debate or discussion. For all these reasons, we have decided in the Group of the National Gazette to build on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the proposal for a decision today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Water Supplements, Short Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Vice-President Branko Fick for the presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u122	Good day to you all! The Committee on Agriculture considered the draft law on supplementing the Water Act at its 27th session. 11. 2013 The Committee received an opinion from the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the opinion of the Council of State which supports and has no comments on the draft law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented a written opinion and reiterated some concerns, in particular regarding the arrangements for the granting of water rights during the transitional period, and the constitutional aspect of the provision of the intended levy, compensation for the use of water. The representative of the Court of Auditors also presented his position on the proposed amendment of the law, who expressed satisfaction in the debate because the Ministry of Justice followed the court's request that the bill should adequately address the issue of payment of a public levy for the entire period of use of natural resources, in this case of water. However, he drew attention to the assessment of the financial implications of the proposal for a state budget law and other public funds. The draft law states that they will have to do so during the period from 1. 1. 2005 to 31. 12. The 2013 liability for compensation for the use of water for that period will pay EUR 0,39 million, and it is not clear from the proposed text how the amounts have been calculated, nor is it clear how much credit will be paid to the current concessionaires who have received water rights under Article 199 of the Water Act and who have paid for it. The representative of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption pointed out that the explanation of the assessment of the actual situation of the draft law was not transparent, as it was not clear how the implementation of the legal provisions would affect public finances, how much water refunds would be and who the beneficiaries of those funds would be. In the course of the discussion on individual articles, the members of the Committee discussed only Article 1 which defines the purposes for which the Water Fund funds can be used and the amendment tabled to this Article. The discussion expressed disagreement with the proposed solution that two thirds of the water resources from the Water Fund, which is filled with water concessions and water reimbursements, will be earmarked for the construction of water plants, instead of returning the funds to local communities that would urgently need them for the development of water infrastructure and flood safety. Although it is not possible to resolve the issue of the distribution of the Water Fund with the proposed novelty, it is expected that the Ministry of Resort will draw up a plan as soon as possible for the purposes for which the Fund will be used, and it will also be clear that dedicated funds are also being spent deliberately. The Committee adopted two amendments to Articles 1 and 3 on the basis of written proposals from the Legislative and Legal Service and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment for amendments to the Committee. The Committee also adopted all amendments to the coalition groups, as well as all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Following the presentation of the positions of the Members of the Groups, the first position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u124	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! The new Water Act proposes to partially address the most pressing and pressing problems in this area. For us Christian Democrats, the protection and proper regulation of inland waters, especially the drinking water area, is of particular importance for the future of Slovenia. We will not object to the law before us, but we would like to draw attention to some of the facts expressed by the representatives of several institutions, in particular the Law and Law Service and the Court of Auditors. We agree with both that it is difficult matter, which means that any reckless and incomplete intervention in the system can cause imbalances and even inconsistencies with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased that the Ministry has followed the Court of Auditors' request and has prepared a proposal that actually follows the requirement to pay public taxes for the entire period of water use. However, the Court of Auditors points out that it is not clear how the amounts were calculated in the presentation of the financial implications of the State Budget Act, since the amounts should not be matched. The Ministry also pointed out this as a proposaler to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I quote their opinion. The first paragraph of point 3 states that from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2013, water-reimbursement undertakings should pay EUR 390 000. Let us note that only one of Slovenia's brewery has paid more than a million Euros of concession fee annually since 2005. There are indeed great differences and inequalities in the situation of those who have met their obligations to the State on a regular basis today and who have paid concession fees. In New Slovenia we therefore wonder how and how you will restore the difference between those who complied with the rules and those who did not settle the amounts during this period.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Branko Ficko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you. Allow me to give an opinion Positive Slovenia supplements to the Water Act. The main content of the novelty affects two areas: the first is the regulation or completion of pending applications, that is the award of concessions without a call for tender, and introduces a new legal norm, a compensation for water use. In the years since 2005, the country has made a mistake by adopting legislation that could not be implemented in practice. The procedures were stalled and there were major delays. There was inequality and selectivity. Everyone needed water, one paid for it, the other didn't. The reasons for not granting concessions are, however, human resources malnutrition, which is questionable, whether during that period the interest was not to be reached. And another area, complementing as a result of the budget rebalancing with the aim of ensuring smooth financing of the compulsory public economic service. A water fund shall be identified as a source of funding, from which €7.6 million is earmarked for water management companies. By regulating these two areas in Positive Slovenia we have no brakes and we support them, but we have a problem in spending the money of the other benefits of the water fund. The Water Act beautifully states that the funds collected are used to build anti-floating infrastructure — not! The 2011 Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava provides that the money from this fund, which is about two-thirds or about 32 million euros, is used for projects related to the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava. This is, of course, unacceptable, and it is obvious that at that time the stakeholders of the various political options came together for their local interests. The money from this fund should be intended to provide for anti-floating security, for catches throughout Slovenia. Of course, it's about unintendedly spent money. It should return to the environment where it was collected and intended to maintain water resources. I expect the Ministry to amend the provisions as soon as possible. In Positive Slovenia we will support the additions to the Water Act with the aim of completing the procedures for outstanding applications, namely the award of concessions and arrangements for financing water management companies. At the same time, we expect an immediate amendment to the stipulation that funds raised in the water fund should be earmarked for counter-water security and capture, not for energy needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The proposal for a novel Water Act is the result of a review by the Court of Auditors of the performance of the Ministry of the Environment and Space of that time in the implementation of the Water Act in 2009 and 2010, which concluded that entities have been dealt with unevenly in the payment of water rights. The Water Act of 2002 provided that water must be obtained and paid for a specific use of water with a water permit or concession, with the payment obligation being implemented from the date of exercise of the water right. The law also provided for a transitional period of two years in which the debtors who needed water had to apply for water rights. Some of the pledges have submitted their application in due time and with some of them the government has concluded a concession contract, but with some potential pledges it has not. In addition to these categories of debtors, there are also those who used water and have submitted an application for water rights after the expiry of the transitional period or too late, or have begun to use the water later. This means that in many cases existing water users did not conclude concessions and therefore did not have a financial obligation compared to those entities which concluded and paid them. In view of the unequal treatment of the debtor, the Court of Auditors ordered the Minister of Auditors to settle the matter in such a way that the obligation to pay the concession fee would be fixed for the period of actual exploitation of the water source. This law deals with compensation for the use of water by three categories of debtors, namely producers of drinks, thermal baths and those who need water for heating. In addition to the transitional provisions, this amendment regulates the issue of awarding a concession without a call for tender to all existing water users who should obtain a water right on the basis of a concession but were not granted if it fulfils the conditions for obtaining a concession. In order to align the legal situation of entities that used water and paid water rights in the past period with entities that also needed water and whose water rights were not calculated, the so-called compensation for the use of water for the period of actual water use, as of 1 January 2005, will be regulated by law, with the debtors who have paid more concessions in the past than to pay compensation for water use being reimbursed. The novelty also provides for the calculation and payment of that refund, avoiding excessive interference with the existing financial situation of economic operators, allowing payment to a maximum of 30 meals or 30 years. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we hope that this amendment of the law will help to speed up the resolution of applications in the competent ministry in this area, as some have been waiting for a solution for almost a decade. This must no longer happen in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u130	Your Honor! The proposed amendment of the Water Act will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. An essential objective of the proposed law is an arrangement which will allow for the granting of water rights to those water users under Article 199 of the Water Act. To this end, the proposed law introduces a conceptual new legal norm, namely compensation for water use. The note also specifies the debtors and how the compensation is calculated. The novelty also regulates the method of payment for water rights during the transitional period for all those who have a water permit for the use of water for the production of beverages. As existing water users, the implementation of the invitation to tender would also constitute an unacceptable intervention in their legitimate expectations from the point of view of investors who submitted applications in a timely manner, as they submitted applications within the prescribed time limit and thus complied with the applicable regulation under Article 199 of the Water Act. That amendment will establish equal treatment for all debtors in need of water, both in terms of legal arrangements by concluding concession contracts or by rejecting their applications and by settling obligations for that period, but not by paying for the use of water. It is a matter of establishing an equal relationship between operators on the market. The Law of Payback shall be without prejudice to the rights acquired. Water users knew that they had to pay for the use of water and that water rights should not be used before water was acquired. Well, we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear secretary with co-workers, colleagues, colleagues! The use of water as a basic life and also important strategic goods for natural users in Slovenia is regulated by law differently than for economic use. For a long time, the economic situation in the area of water use has been poorly regulated, and this has led to a situation that must now be addressed by the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Water Act. Although quantitative and qualitative water is not lacking in Slovenia, it needs to be handled efficiently and economically, and it also needs to be burdened with adequate financial burden in terms of economic use, as it is ultimately a raw material that is marketed or sold in different forms of the economy. To this end, the Water Act 2002 has laid down the allocation of water licences and anti-payment concessions and the obligation to pay would arise from the date of the exercise of water rights. The law provided for a two-year transitional period during which everyone should apply for a water licence or concession. However, not all users have done so during the prescribed period, which, or now, would give them an additional or better opportunity to do so. What really happened after the adoption of the Water Act in 2002? Users with a timely authorisation or concession have, as payers, been in an unequal position with respect to those users who have not done so. This was also pointed out by the Court of Auditors, which pointed out delays and non-equity and selective treatment in the award of concessions, and consequently put the law's followers in an uncompetitive position, as their water as the primary raw material of their activities became more expensive than those who did not respect the law. In its observations, however, the Court of Auditors, as a corrective measure, also ordered the preparation of such legislation as to provide for the payment of water for the return of those users who have not yet been granted water rights. Perhaps such a corrective measure could also be contrary to Article 155 of the Constitution, which deals with retroactivity, and the Ministry was also aware of that and, according to their assurances, reached an agreement with all stakeholders concerned with the amendment of the law. It is also a fact that water users knew that they had to pay for the use of water and that it should not be used before using a water permit or concession; hence, this fact speaks for itself. Now, I would not say more about what is still the law; for example, it also brings more precise forms of water charging for economic purposes, but I would end up saying that we will support the bill in the National Gazette because it regulates and corrects inequalities in the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! The Water Act is also one of those laws that repeatedly enters our parliamentary benches. This novel, which regulates the practical payment for the specific use of water back, might really be a more specific law, so it would not burden the Water Act as such, but it does not seem essential to us in the Slovenian People's Party. It is essential that this amendment of the law governs one area of operation of the State which, in the last ten years since the new Water Act was in force, has not done its homework; not only has it not done its homework, but it has also lost considerable financial resources in these years because of the unallocated concessions. However, this year's Court of Auditors report has helped to regulate this area more quickly and we now have new articles. What needs to be said here is that all water users will finally be equalized by this regulation and will no longer be in a privileged position to those who do not have a concession contract, although not by their own fault; that water rights procedures can now be completed without a call for tender; that compensation and all that is connected are also regulated; and that these compensations can be paid over a longer period of time so as not to overly affect the operations of these users and, in particular, the jobs. There is certainly also a significant dilemma here when we talk about payback, it is in some way retroactivity, and there is a risk that this law will also be subject to a constitutional judgment. Although it is also true that these water users have always known that this right will have to be paid at some point, and since it is legal persons who used water for commercial purposes, it would be very difficult to deny it, and even in many other countries these rights are not free. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment itself now agrees that the law is not optimal, and the Law-Legal Service and the Court of Auditors have also pointed out some inconsistencies, such as the issue of overpayment credits. However, the Chamber of Commerce drew attention to the question of interest as the remuneration will be paid back over a long period of time. We have heard some other warnings from the Court of Auditors, let us hope that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has also heard them and that they will be taken into account in the further changes to the Water Act. For the time being, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the essential purpose of the amendment of the Water Act, which is linked to this year's findings by the Court of Auditors, has been achieved. In order to finally settle matters back and forth, we support this law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Mrs Marija Plevčak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you for your word and a warm welcome to everyone! In the DeSUS Group, we are pleased that the Minister of Agriculture has consulted representatives of all affected categories of debtors when preparing the draft Law on Water Change and Supplementation and reached agreement on the amount of compensation for water use, on the possibility of payment by hand and on the calculation of the difference of payments. We hope that other ministers will follow his practice as often as possible, as this avoids many complications and unnecessary perceptions from the interested professional public. The proposed amendment to the Water Act is mainly the result of the Court of Auditors' audit report on the performance of the Ministry of Environment and Space in the implementation of the Water Act in 2009 and 2010. The Ministry found that operators such as drink producers, thermal baths and those who need water for heating are not treated equally in the payment of water rights. In 2002 the Water Act was adopted at that time, providing that water rights must be obtained and paid for the specific use of water with a water permit or concession, with the payment obligation being implemented from the date of the exercise of the water right. During the transitional period of two years during which the debtors who needed water had to submit an application for this water right. Some of the pledges have given up their role in time and with many of them the government has concluded a concession contract, but with some potential pledges it has not. In addition to these categories of debtors, there are also those who used water and have submitted an application for water rights after the expiry of the transitional period or have not submitted it at all. Some of the pledges, however, began to use water later. This means that, in many cases, existing water users did not conclude concessions and therefore did not have or have no financial obligations compared to those of the entities that concluded and paid them. In view of the unequal treatment of the debtors, the Court of Auditors ordered the Ministry of Auditors to address this issue, so that the obligation to pay the concession fee is fixed for the period of actual exploitation of the water source. As an example, the production of drinks had an extremely high duty, about EUR 11 per cubic metre of liquor sold. There is also a difference between the individual sectors within the drinks. In the production of juices and mineral waters, the duty is around 2 euros and the largest payers are beer producers. In the case of thermal water, the amount of the payment to the budget is extremely low, with most natural spas and baths that need thermal water not paying the concession fee at all. A similar situation in the area of water use for heating, where the payment of concession fee as well as water reimbursement is extremely low, less than 1% of total inflows to the water fund. Therefore, one of the essential solutions in this proposal is the regime which will allow the completion of the procedures under Article 199 of the Water Act and the outstanding applications following the expiry of the transitional period, all in a manner that will allow all those categories to be awarded concessions without a call for tender and in this respect to the completion of those procedures. In order to realize the payment for water rights during the actual use of water, the novel introduces a new legal standard – compensation for water use as well as the debtors, method of calculation and method of payment of this compensation. However, the second key solution to this proposal is the addition of Article 162 of the Law, which is the result of the budget rebalancing in connection with the provision of smooth financing for the compulsory economic and public water management service. The proposed new provision establishes the Water Fund as a source of funding for this economic public service. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the proposal for a law on supplementing the Water Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2A item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Vice-President Srečko Meh to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u138	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on the Economy is at its 11th session. Ten. 2013 considered the proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 44th session. 9. 2013 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. In its opinion, the Service submitted a proposal to clarify the subjective and objective deadline and to define the concept of delay. There was no debate at the committee meeting. Within a specified time limit, none of the qualified applicants submitted any amendments. Therefore, since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed Act amending the Industrial Property Act should be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We are moving on to shifting the positions of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Velinja will be the first to present the position of the Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u140	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! At the proposal of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, the Government forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act. It is proposed to amend Article 67 of the current law, which provides for a clearer beginning of the subjective period at the Institute for the continuation of the procedure after the delay and introduces an objective deadline for the submission of the request. In the procedure for obtaining rights at the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for intellectual property, the applicant shall be required to delay the time limits for fulfilling the obligations resulting in his application being deemed withdrawn. The proposal therefore introduces two legal institutes, namely, the return to the previous situation and the continuation of the late procedure. Both institutes should only be used in exceptional cases where the party for various reasons could not submit a request on time. The aim of the proposed amendment is to clarify the duration of the subjective period – it will now run two months from the date on which the cause of the delay has ceased, and if the applicant later finds out about the delay, from the date on which he has completed and not more than two months after the notification of the delay and its legal consequences – and to establish an objective deadline at the Institute for the continuation of the procedure after the delay. The application for continuation of the delay procedure will be submitted by the notifier within six months of the date of the delay and no later. The proposed amendment retains the possibility of requiring the continuation of the applicant procedure and establishes legal certainty. This is a less difficult amendment to the current law, which will not affect the fundamental regulation of industrial property rights, but will provide greater legal certainty as to the rights in force, so it has been delayed after a reduced procedure. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Franz Breznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u142	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Intellectual property rights, including patents, models, brands, copyright and related rights, etc., are extremely important from an economic point of view because they affect the competitiveness and performance of entities on the market itself. The area of intellectual property is governed by international treaties and European regulations and, in essence, three laws in Slovenia, in addition to the Law on Industrial Property, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductor Bonds. The acquisition of intellectual property rights is an important step towards securing such property, but even more important are the procedures by which these rights are exercised or defended in the event of an infringement. The new law that we have before us speaks or regulates the exact procedures for the enforcement of industrial property. Thus, in this law, the time limit within which the applicant for industrial property rights, patent, model, brand or geographical indication may request that the Office continue the process of obtaining industrial property rights. The subjective period of two months shall remain unchanged, only the beginning of its course shall be changed, so that it shall run from the date on which the cause of the delay has ceased, provided that the notifier has only subsequently found out of the delay and from the day on which it has been informed. Thus, the beginning of the subjective period shall be determined in the same way as at the institute of return to the previous situation. An objective time limit is therefore set for the submission of a request for the continuation of the late procedure, after which the applicant may no longer require the continuation of the late procedure. The applicant will therefore be able to submit the application no later than six months after the date of the delay and no later. However, for the successful continuation of the procedure after the delay and the removal of its legal consequences, without prejudice to the prudence of its conduct, the applicant must submit a request in such a way as to be timely in relation to the subjective and objective period. The establishment of an objective deadline ensures legal certainty as to the validity of industrial property rights, as it is prevented from continuing the procedure several years after a certain period of time in the process of obtaining the right. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment of the Industrial Property Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Branko Smodiš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. All present, good afternoon! The amendment to the Industrial Property Act, which we are considering today, refers to Article 67 of the Law governing a specific legal institution, which is a requirement for the continuation of the procedure in cases where the applicant is late in fulfilling the obligations relating to the application or registration of a patent, model, brand or geographical indication with the Office of Intellectual Property. The purpose of this institute is that the notifier may request the continuation of the procedure, irrespective of the reason for his delay in fulfilling the obligation, without any penalty for his delay. Such protection is guaranteed to the applicant by the so-called European Patent Convention. The current regulation, however, has shown the weakness of this legal institution, as the deadline for submitting a request for continuation of the procedure is, in other words, unlimited. It is now considered that the applicant shall only be bound by a period of two months, which shall not start to run until the date on which the applicant has been informed of the delay. This may also be years later, as the European Patent Office or the European Patent Applicants does not specifically inform about the late date. Therefore, only subjective limitation period is laid down, as confirmed by the case law of the Administrative and Supreme Court. Such regulation, however, entails legal uncertainty or economic risk for those economic operators who wish to use an invention that is not protected by a patent in the Republic of Slovenia for economic purposes. Due to the amendment of the law that we are considering today, an objective time-limit is added to this legal institution in addition to the subjective time-limit, similar to that of Switzerland. At the same time, the beginning of this is defined slightly differently than it is now. Following the entry into force of this Act, a request for continuation of the procedure will be made within two months of the date of expiry of the delay or within two months of the notice of late but not later than six months after the date of the delay. Such arrangements will enable the IPR to provide real data on the industrial property rights in force in the Republic of Slovenia, which will, on the one hand, increase legal certainty and, on the other hand, reduce the number of disputes, in particular as regards the validity of European patents in our country. For this reason, the Social Democrats' Group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, Mr Marko Pavlisic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Institute of Continuation of Late Procedure was implemented into the Slovenian legal system not so long ago. This was precisely in 2001 with the adoption of the Industrial Property Act. The proposer pursued the objective of achieving greater efficiency in the protection of industrial property rights and of simplifying procedures for obtaining those rights. At the same time, with the introduction of this institute, the law has made many other changes that have been necessary to bring our legislation into line with the existing directives and international acts. Slovenia was preparing to enter the European Union at that time. Since there are different legal provisions in national legislation to remedy the consequences of the delay in European patent holders and since European patent holders are not informed of the delay, the current legal formulation of the Institute for the continuation of the procedure after the delay allows holders of the European patent to apply the European patent in the Republic of Slovenia after several months or years or for an unknown period. As has already been said, the inadequacy or time limit of the use of this institute represents legal uncertainty and economic risk for all those economic operators established in the Republic of Slovenia who wish to use their new products for economic purposes. Since they rely on the situation in our patent register at the time of application, they may later suffer serious damage if a particular economic operator, the holder of a European patent, subsequently registers his patent in front of our body over the years. In order to remove this anomaly, the proposer shall follow the Swiss model by means of a proposal and, inter alia, at the Institute for the continuation of the delay procedure, shall introduce an objective period of six months from the date of the delay. At the same time, the draft law provides for a clearer deadline for the submission of a request for the continuation of the late procedure. The latter will be determined in the same way as at the institute of return to the previous situation. Until now, it has been considered that the continuation of the procedure may be lodged within two months of the date on which the applicant was informed of the delay or its legal consequences. After a new one, two months will be counted from the day that the cause of the delay has ceased, if the applicant finds out of the delay only later, and it will be counted from the day that he finds out. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we are committed to removing administrative obstacles for citizens and businesses and for a more competitive business environment, and we will therefore support this proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Janez Ribič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party on the proposal for a law supplementing the Industrial Property Act is as follows. The new Industrial Property Act practically contains only one article, which is an amendment to the second paragraph of Article 67, with the issue of corporate legal security. Following the new amendment, rightholders will be able to request the continuation of the procedure for obtaining the right no later than six months after the delay and no longer within an unlimited period of time. Under the law in force so far, the procedure could have continued for several years after a period of time in the process of obtaining justice. And the new law limits this time to six months. Therefore, after the expiry of this period, businesses will no longer be at risk of potential patent infringements than they have been before. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party we support this addition to the Industrial Property Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Jana Jenko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u150	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Good bye to all of you! In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act and we will support it. The novel makes it possible to use the institute to continue the procedure after the delay. This is the addition of a 6-month objective deadline, after which it will no longer be possible to request the continuation of the procedure. This eliminates the risk of default for several years after the delay, in particular with regard to anticipated patent infringements. Of course, in our view it is a meaningful and useful legal arrangement, as this will continue to provide an effective system for the protection of industrial property rights and its associated legal security for users. Legal consequences shall also be addressed on the basis of compliance with European rules, all for the benefit of economic operators. As I said at the outset, in the DeSUS Group we will support the text of the bill as we have received it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u152	Your Honor! The proposed amendment to the Industrial Property Act will be supported by Christian Democrats, as it makes the rules for the application of patents even clearer. According to the bill's proponent, there have now been in practice situations where the originators have missed the deadlines for the submission of the translation of patent applications and the payment of the fee, and despite the delay, the owner of the invention may have subsequently exercised the right to return to the previous situation or have made a request for the continuation of the procedure after the delay. The current law also allowed the owner to apply the application for continuation of the delay procedure even years after the delay occurred. The latter, in the Slovenian legal order, constituted a legal void and a threat to those who did not know how to use an invention which would later prove to be patently protected. In order to ensure greater transparency in this area, as well as greater security for the owners of inventions, the deadlines for the application of the patent are now being set more clearly and an acceptable delay is being limited to six months. In New Slovenia, we believe that the ministries and the competent authorities should make more efforts to identify similar legal gaps and inconsistencies, as this stifles our economy and allows various speculators to make easy profits and block competition. Let me mention only one similar case, which is also within the jurisdiction of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property. This is the Copyright and Related Rights Act, where conflicts and the will of collective organisations have been occurring for many years because of a certain lack of clarity of law, the absence of proper control and the power of some stakeholders. We Christian Democrats have therefore tabled a bill a few weeks ago that would improve the current situation, but we have unfortunately not received much support in this in the National Assembly. Nevertheless, we will continue to work to establish real economic freedom and a competitive business environment in Slovenia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2a of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the religious freedom law after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr. Aleš Črnič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, distinguished Members! Today, we have before us, on a scale, a minimum novel of the Law on Religious Freedom, by content, all the more than irrelevant. We are dealing with it because, after 2011, when the Constitutional Court’s decision to annul came into force, there was nothing surprising about certain decisions of the Religious Freedom Act, there was a legal void in the field of registration. This legal void must be filled for two reasons. First of all, for the practical reason that the Office of Religious Communities will be able to act at all, it will be able to clearly, unequivocally register new religious communities if, of course, such ones appear to express this desire. On the other hand, this legal void must also be filled in due to the attitude towards the Constitutional Court and the rule of law in general. The Ministry of Culture proposes in this novel that the new criteria for the registration of religious communities represent 10 full-year residents of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Number 10 is a compromise; in the process of designing and adopting this novel, some MEPs and Members advocated the number 20, some others and some state councillors number 3. We propose the number 10 for a number of reasons. First of all, because the Constitutional Court has included in the right to freedom of conscience an appropriate legal organisational form which can only be obtained by groups through this registration at the Office of Religious Communities. Therefore, we are convinced that it is right to extend access to this right, but not to rejuvenate, so a lower number than 20. Another reason is that we think 20 is too high, and this is a pure situation in practice. We know from the relevant social research data that a large proportion of groups that could be socially understood as religious spiritual groups do not count, in Slovenia does not count, do not reach the threshold of 20 members. About 40% of such groups have fewer than 20 members. On the other hand, the number 3 seems to be slightly low, although this number makes sense, this number 3 establishes a group in terms of freedom of association, we know that this is a minimum threshold, as set out in the law on societies. However, the Law on Religious Freedom itself, the formal status of the religious community, nevertheless, offers or makes possible the granting of certain rights that the Law on Society does not, so it seemed good and appropriate for us to place this number somehow higher. Number 10 is a compromise definition that, in our firm belief, is professionally meaningful, more than meaningful, we think it is good, so you, honourable Members and Members, are invited to support this novel today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Dr. Blackwich. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! I will summarize the report of the committee meeting, which you also have in writing. At its 5th regular session, on 30 October 2013, the Committee on Culture considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Religious Freedom. The Government submitted it to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The procedure was approved by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 64th regular meeting. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and with a legislative technical aspect. It made comments on Articles 1 and 3. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport also commented on these two articles. He presented his opinions at the meeting of the Committee, Dr Radovan Stanislav Peyovnik, and they concerned, in particular, a number of conditions for at least 10 full-year members of the religious community, that there were insufficient arguments and that this conduct was arbitrary. With regard to Article 3, the application of Article 155 of the Constitution, which provides for the prohibition of the retroactive application of legal acts, was mentioned. With regard to the State Council's comments, the Committee was given an opinion and responded to both comments by the amendment to suspend Article 3 of the novel. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Dr. Aleš Črnič, initially said that the Constitutional Court, with a delay of time, repealed Article 13(1) of the Religious Freedom Act, the proposed regime, as compared to the repealed regime, retains only the reduced condition of members of the church or of other religious communities, who are Slovenian citizens or residents. He explained that the reduction of the registration threshold would make it more accessible only to the basic legal personality of the church or other religious community and that its special rights would continue to be more difficult to access. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group also came to this article in the course of business. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that they had asked the applicant for some of the additional explanations they had received, so that they had no comments on the proposal for a law. The discussion of members and members and others invited was mainly held on Article 1 of the novel, which provides for the registration of a church or other religious community. Some felt that the number of 10 full-year members was too low and suggested a more appropriate number of 20. They were also interested in why the Ministry did not address the employment of religious employees in the state administration in addition to regulating registration. They also pointed out possible abuses due to the low registration limit. Others considered that the determination of any number was controversial and suggested that the problem should be resolved in the same way as was envisaged in the national communities. The representative of the State Council also warned that determining any number of acts of arbitration was an act of arbitration. He explained that it is difficult to defend the suitability of any number greater than the number three or the first number already reflecting the group. However, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture explained that abuses were a matter of criminal law and said that up to now, 42 religious communities, of which more than 40% had not reached the number of 20, had no problems with registration. The question of employment of religious officials in the State Administration was examined by the Constitutional Court only for their employment in hospitals and prisons, and they will be introduced in a new law, which is being prepared and will also include the financing of religious communities. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. An amendment to the Article 3 deletion committee, which was adopted, was also prepared. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report and is before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Social Democrats and the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Allow me to present the position of the Social Democrats' Group on the bill. The proposal for a law introduces only one relevant supplement, a condition of 10 members for the registration of a religious community. With number 10, the Social Democrats have no problems, but of course they would be much more pleased if it were enough to register three citizens or residents of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill therefore does not eliminate unconstitutionality, but merely fills the void after the Constitutional Court has been repealed. Registration or other acquisition of a legal personality is not a condition for the establishment and functioning of a religious community. Religious communities can act completely informally and such association enjoys constitutional protection. However, the Constitutional Court has already explained that the constitutionally protected free operation of religious communities obliges the State to establish a mechanism that allows religious communities wishing to do so to gain legal personality status. It is no coincidence, therefore, that representatives of the largest religious communities have often expressed in public the opinion that there is no need to amend, supplement or any other applicable law, because religious communities can operate under the law we adopted in the National Assembly and that we have opposed to it by the Social Democrats when it is adopted. But we have not only seen the number needed for registration, but we have seen the shortcomings. We have also identified some other shortcomings and inconsistencies either with the Constitution or with international legal acts. Therefore, the proposed novel did not meet our expectations because it eliminates only that legal void. We believe that the Law on Religious Freedom should be based on the principle of real separation between the State and the church and should guarantee religious and mental freedom. The principle of ensuring the equal position of all religious and visual communities should be implemented in a consistent manner. Solutions should also reflect the general expectations of adequate and transparent access to public funding. It is precisely because of the above-mentioned Group of Social Democrats that the amendment will not be supported. However, in its decision, the Constitutional Court has only examined those matters which have been challenged or proposed for constitutional review. Thus, the proportion of what is unacceptable to the Social Democrats in the current law relates in particular to the non-inclusion of visual groups broader than what the Constitutional Court has said. The amendment of New Slovenia, which increases the number 10 to 20 or proposes such an increase, is why we did not support it. What we would certainly like to mention is that we are aware that the issue that we are talking about in this law is an important issue for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, but that all the consideration so far of the bill proposals, which were more and more, shows that the consensus between the majority position of the majority religious communities and those who do not belong to these religious communities is a difficult ideal, which makes it difficult for us to believe that in a short time it will be possible to adopt a larger novel that the Ministry of Culture predicts. The fact that this issue is not empty also shows the reactions of the adoption of the Real Estate Tax Act, in which the Commission has also expressed its fear at the Slovenian Conference of Justice and Peace, both of the consequences of the Real Estate Tax Act and of the announced amendment of the Religious Freedom Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mrs Polonca Komar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Government representatives! On 15 April 2010, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decision repealing, inter alia, the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Religious Freedom Act with a one-year grace period, in a constitutional procedure for the assessment of constitutionality initiated at the request of the Council of State on 15 April 2010. The repealed provision laid down the following conditions for the registration of a church or other religious community: at least 100 full-year members who are nationals of Slovenia or foreigners who have a permanent residence on its territory and that the religious community has operated in the Republic of Slovenia for at least the last 10 years. According to the position of the Constitutional Court, the legislator may prescribe minimum membership, but he must be aware that a very high threshold already constitutes an intervention in human rights. The requirements laid down in the first paragraph of Article 41 of the Constitution and the right to freedom of association referred to in Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia have been excessively affected by the exercise of the right to freedom of conscience referred to in Article 41(1). We are aware that the determination of any number of members as a condition for registration, which is less than 100, is arbitrary. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we believe that the condition for registration provided for by this amendment is at least 10 full-year members, who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or foreigners who have a permanent residence in its territory, and that the requirement that the religious community operate in the Republic of Slovenia for at least the last 10 years is proportionate and makes it possible to exercise those human rights, so we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The position of the Slovenian People's Party on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religious Freedom is as follows. As we know, the Law on Religious Freedom regulates the individual and collective exercise of religious freedom, the legal status of churches and other religious communities, their registration procedure with appropriate legal guarantees, the rights of churches and other religious communities and their members. The proposed amendment to the Religious Freedom Act introduced by the Government to the legislative process is very short, as it regulates exclusively the criteria for the required number of members needed to establish a religious community. The proposed law places this limit on 10 full-year members, which is considered extremely low in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. According to our assessment, the more suitable number 20 would be, as suggested by colleagues from Nova Slovenije on the working body, but unfortunately their amendment was not adopted. The proposed amendment to the law is due to the 2010 Constitutional Court decision, which, as a contrary to the Constitution, assessed the provision of the current current law setting the limit for the registration of a religious community in 100 full-year members who are Slovenian citizens, should be stressed, or have permanent residence in Slovenia. The proposed law therefore deals solely with this problem and the other provisions of the Law on Religious Freedom are not affected. It is worth recalling that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party of February this year were among the co-signers of the New Law on Religious Freedom, the main purpose of which was to abolish the constitutionality or to comply with that decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the first-signed proposer, in order to replace the government as well as the changed relations in the National Assembly, withdrew the bill, despite the fact that this bill fully regulated the unconstitutionality, since, in addition to the criterion for the registration of the religious community, which was established at the border of 20 full-year-olds, it also regulated the position of priests employed in prisons and public hospitals. We are therefore afraid that the proposed amendment to the Law on Religious Freedom, which we are considering today, will not fully eliminate the known unconstitutionalities concerning religious care in those institutions for some time. Nevertheless, we will support the proposed amendments to the law by the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party. We are aware of the need to ensure legal stability by filling the legal void created by the application of the aforementioned decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nicely hailed representatives of the Ministry! Dear Members and honourable Members! In Slovenia, we seem to have great difficulties reaching agreement in most areas and there is no exception to religion. Our policy is not able to harmonise itself with regard to roof laws which, due to their systemic nature and exceptional importance for a particular area, would require a significant degree of consensus. The Religious Freedom Act is a system law for religion in Slovenia. It was adopted in 2007, subject to obstruction of the entire opposition and with a minimum sufficient majority of 46 votes. There was no public debate on the law, including the opinions of experts involved in the scientific study of religions, were not welcome but even less taken into account. Thus, in April 2010, the Constitutional Court issued a decision repealing the conditions for the registration of religious communities, while at the same time prohibiting the employment of priests in prisons and hospitals. It took us three years to prepare a bill to fill the legal void created by the Constitutional Court's decision. Minister Grilc made an optimistic move to deal with the situation immediately after the resupply. But as a difficult road to the adoption of the Law on Religious Freedom, it was also a difficult and unpredictable way to get to the novel proposal that we have before us today. The first proposal drawn up by the Ministry of Culture contained the changed conditions for the registration of religious communities and also for the provision of payment, that is, monetary doses to priests for the work they do by offering religious spiritual care to believers in prisons and public hospitals. The last solution for the DeSUS Group was not acceptable. At a time when medical bills are practically empty, funding for spiritual care in hospitals is extremely inappropriate, according to DeSUS. Today we have before us a proposal for a novel which regulates only the conditions of registration of religious communities in Slovenia and thus at least partially follows the Constitutional Court's decision. The problems faced by the Ministry at the time of the completion of the law are, however, more than a clear indication that in our country we need a new system law on religion, a law that will be adopted with a good degree of consent, as would be appropriate for a roof law. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will be supported by the Religious Freedom Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Ludmila Novak have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. On the contrary, Christian Democrats feel that spiritual care is of utmost importance and that good spiritual care also makes it easier for us to endure physical treatment. In Nova Slovenije this spring we proposed a novel of the Law on Religious Freedom. The proposed solutions to our amendment to the law followed closely the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the unconstitutionality of parts of individual articles of the law. Most importantly, the proposal dealt with all the provisions which the Constitutional Court had repealed. It is a pity that the constructive spirit did not prevail at that time even in the coalition, in order to at least support the opposition proposal at some point, so we have not received sufficient support from Members. This time the Ministry's proposal for a decision of the Constitutional Court is only partially answered and, in the view of New Slovenia, it is also very weak for Christian Democrats. The novelty has nothing to do with the regulation of the employment of religious servants in the public sector. We ask the Ministry how the novel eliminates only one irregularity and not the other. In Novi Slovenija we are also detained for the proposed solutions because of information that a broad law is being drawn up that will significantly change the regulation of religious freedom in Slovenia. For there is a fear that someone in this area wants to put everything on his head. Indeed, the existing religious communities are united that the current law governs these relations sufficiently and that we do not need a new law, except for the elimination of these imbalances established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia proposed an amendment to increase the minimum number of people needed to establish a religious community from 10 to 20. This is due to the fact that the registered religious community is gaining wider rights, and it seems appropriate for us to set a minimum limit that would at least to some extent protect against abuse. Christian Democrats advocate modern legal standards that distinguish between the mission of churches and religious communities and the tasks of the state. However, since churches and religious communities work primarily in the field of religion and ethics, they are so beneficial to the general social culture. The task of the State is to support their operation and to have a constant dialogue with all churches and religious communities, especially those with centuries of tradition in Slovenia and who have contributed significantly to Slovenian culture and identity. New Slovenia will continue to work in the spirit of good relations between the State and the churches and religious communities. It will establish a permanent dialogue and provide legal frameworks in which the functioning of churches and religious communities in both religious, ethical, cultural, educational and social fields will take place as freely as possible and for the benefit of all citizens of Slovenia. This, of course, is what we expect from the Government or the competent ministry. The New Slovenia Group will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Messengers of the government, messengers of the people! I would like to present to you the Gospel of the Positive Slovenia Group, after a homely good announcement, we will of course support the novel of the Law on Religious Freedom, this little thing that it brings. We would argue that freedom is contrary to restriction. It means as little restraint as possible, the more freedom. Our starting point was the number 3 that represents a community, although the constitution guarantees the individual the right to religious freedom. If we look at paragraphs 7, 14 and 41, I wouldn't quote them. We therefore opposed the amendment setting this limit at 20. I think the government representative said that this would discriminate against 40% of registered religious communities, which is unacceptable for us. Other matters, as far as the Kurats are concerned, would be discussed when it's up to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Bosic. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of item 2a of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Higher Vocational Education Act within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, here present to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u170	Ladies and gentlemen! I won't be long, given that there were no amendments, and I don't want to have any further reasons for the law. However, I would like to make excuses to the public and to the President of the Council of Experts, because we misinterpreted one of the conclusions of the Council of Experts yesterday for the media. The mistake was, I must say, exclusively ours, does not affect the solutions in this law, which are professionally justified, but it is right to say that there has been a communication error. We already apologized to the media. It is also right to say before the public and before this assembly that this error has occurred and I apologize for this mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is at its 10th regular session. 11. 2013 discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Vocational Education Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and with a legislative technical aspect. It commented on Articles 1, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 17, 25, 28 and 34. These comments were put forward by the coalition with amendments which, somehow, from the point of view of the Legislative and Legal Service in most cases covered these comments, so that the law is aligned with both the Constitution and the legislative technical aspects. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Sport and Education, in its opinion, supported and assessed the importance of complementing and improving the role of higher education. The Commission also supports the proposaler's intention to ensure a quality transfer of expertise, both through compulsory teacher education and the education of professional workers in higher education schools, through existing study programmes as well as through the transfer of knowledge and achievements from other top experts to the educational process. State Secretary Aluš Pertinac said that the aim of the proposed law is to create conditions for the rapid adaptation of higher vocational education to the needs of the economy. The basis for the preparation of higher education curricula should continue to be the professional standard agreed by the social partners and reflects the identified needs of the field of work relevant to higher education providers. The Accreditation Commission, appointed by the Expert Council, will give the expert board an opinion on the compatibility of the proposal on new higher education curricula with the starting point and issue an agreement on the appointment of lecturers. A re-accreditation process will also be introduced to include the competent quality agency in higher education. Students' rights will also be regulated in relation to the responsibility of students to fulfil their obligations under study programmes and, due to fictitious enrolment in higher education, the rights of higher education students will have to be restricted. The novels will address some other shortcomings and uncertainties that have emerged in the 9-year implementation of the law. The debate focused on Articles 4, 8 and 13 of the novel, which set out the deletion of certain tasks of the higher education community, the new arrangements for higher vocational education and the tightening of the selection criteria. The representative of the Community of Higher Schools expressed concerns about the deletion of some of their tasks, particularly in the preparation and implementation of study programmes, the preparation of starting points and the renovation of higher education curricula, the drafting of legislation and regulations governing higher education, the establishment of a network of schools, the establishment of a single information system and the establishment of a common database of school publications. Their comments were summarised by the SDS Group, which, with its proposal for amendments to the Committee, sought to redefine the same role and the importance of the community. A member of the Committee explained that the draft amendment had already been presented to Members in January 2013. However, the State Secretary at the Ministry explained that the community of higher vocational schools had been involved in co-forming the novel and that they would also be involved in the creation of other legislation in this area. This amendment has not been adopted by the members and members of the Committee. With regard to Article 8 of the novel, the representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia said that their organisation advocated that the professional council was fairly represented by all stakeholders co-forming the higher school space. He also proposed a different composition of the Accreditation Commission and a two-year term of office for members of the Commission who would come from among the students. The representative of the community of higher vocational schools explained that the community of higher vocational schools should propose members to the Accreditation Commission. The representative of the Ministry explained that the Accreditation Commission was not a committee that would present individual stakeholders, but was an expert in higher vocational education. The student organisation of Slovenia can propose an expert in this field, since it is the composition of a commission which is professional. Similar arrangements are also elsewhere within the framework of the Higher Education Act. The debate was also held on other articles of the novel and members of the Committee welcomed its admission in principle. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 9, 10, 14, 15, 17, 25, 28 and 34. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Social Democrats and the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you again for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The high level of support achieved in the proposed law is undoubtedly rooted in the fact that the proposal for a law with minimum nomological corrections was similar to that presented by former Secretary of State Mojca Škrinjar, together with colleagues, to our Group of Members in February this year. However, it is worth noting that this is another proposal, with some different solutions, as originally proposed. It is abandoned, for example, by the ambition to obtain some kind of higher education nakvis, and it is interesting that this proposal departs from the original version, according to which a positive opinion on individual teaching work would be sufficient to meet the conditions or to fail to meet the conditions. The objectives can be narrowed down to two points, namely updating existing legislation in particular in the area of incentives for the early completion of education and reducing fictitious entry and, secondly, creating conditions for the rapid adaptation of higher vocational education to the needs of the economy. First a word, two on fictitious entry. Lately in the debates we see a double reaction to the fictitious entry. In addition to calls for the suppression of fictitious entry, it has also pointed out that sometimes rising unemployment is particularly among young people, this increase, a warning as to whether the suppression of fictitious entry is an appropriate solution, since the number of those at the Employment Institute has increased significantly. Or, let's say, the first week of October, says in the new study year, a thousand 38 espies were opened. In this way, those who no longer had student status were able to resolve their existential position. Individual schools have also taken on fictitious entries. Remember the case of Ptuj High School. Thus, we have already seen the sign that higher schools are becoming some sort of parallel employment agency, or unemployment reserve army center. In Slovenia, the growing number of unemployed young people is particularly concerned. Given that fictitious entries, according to the SOS between 15 and 30 000, are between 9 and 10%, this is a very serious problem, so we are pleased that the proposal has touched on this problem. The next problem or key feature is the new accreditation arrangement. The procedure for the adoption of programmes and the appointment of lecturers shall be linked. The Accreditation Commission, as a single body, shall give an opinion on the conformity of programmes and shall forward it to the expert board and shall give agreement on the appointment of lecturers and shall remain in the ministry. It would also indicate the conclusion of contracts with employers for all regular and half regular students, the re-accreditation is introduced every five years, for some programmes also the talent test, including the relationship between the professional council and the commission, which is not only responsible for accreditation of higher education programmes, but also for schools, is an interesting composition. The warning also points to the relaxed conditions for lecturers. And that was also the point where the President of the Council of Experts and the proposal were not fully understood. This is because Andragog education is necessary for regular employees, and those who come under contracts as external workers are not supposed to need it. What the proposed innovation will achieve, we hope that the goals will be achieved and that the quality of higher education will only be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The Higher Education Act was adopted in 2004. Its fundamental feature is that it has regulated higher vocational education as a short-term higher education, although it has maintained links with vocational and vocational education at the secondary level. The amendment of the law before us simplifies and combines accreditation procedures by introducing a single validation procedure for the programme and lecturers, which will be linked to the external quality assessment. A re-accreditation process will also be introduced to include the Quality Agency in higher education. The novel also removes some of the shortcomings that have so far appeared in the implementation of the law itself. It is important to regulate the rights of students in relation to their duties. In practice, however, there is a growing number of students who do not intend to study and get a higher vocational education because they are actually studying in higher vocational schools or colleges, and they are enrolled in higher vocational schools only for obtaining student status, which brings them certain benefits. Thus, the future of a regular study, together with so-called fictitious entries, is only around 40%. It is therefore the duty of students to fulfil, in particular, the mandatory components of study programmes such as exercises and practical education. It is also important to note the new article 13 of the novel, which gives priority to candidates who have not been enrolled in regular studies in higher education or higher education in the selection process. The current arrangements whereby schools were selected only on the basis of results or estimates in previous education, while limiting enrolment, made it possible that the most successful candidates were, in particular, those already enrolled in higher education, and that was a different choice for them, most often due to the provision of student status. However, there have been poorer opportunities for candidates who have completed vocational and professional education and would like to upgrade their education in the selected field of expertise in higher education. Therefore, it makes sense that, in the event of a restriction of entry, those candidates who first take part in tertiary education have priority. With the amendment of the Higher Vocational Education Act, we create the conditions for the rapid adaptation of higher vocational education to the needs of the economy, with the aim or desire that theoretical knowledge be used as quickly and as best as possible in practice, so we will support the draft law in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. However, there is another law currently in public debate, which is likely to require much more effort and compromise in order to harmonise stakeholders. I am speaking, of course, of the law on higher education, which will soon be before our benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Higher vocational education is supposed to be the most direct link between the education process and the economy, as this type of education involves the greatest overlap of practical and theoretical knowledge aimed at creating new added value. Regrettably, as in a number of other areas, a noble purpose has failed in us since the establishment of quality theoretical and practical vocational education and does not at present justify this purpose and fail to achieve the objectives for which it was established. In our view, the evidence for this finding is a large number of students who are enrolled in this type of study, but who never finish it, because their purpose is merely to exercise the rights arising from student status, in other words, fictitious students. Not only do they represent a huge cost for public cash registers but they also take up space for those who are enrolled in higher education vocational programmes with a sincere desire to acquire knowledge. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposed solutions in the amendment to the Higher Vocational Education Act, because their main purpose is to create better conditions for a faster adaptation of higher vocational education to the needs of the economy, which we still need in our country. We warn that such changes will not be enough. In order to better integrate education and the economy, a more stable business environment is essential to encourage entrepreneurs to recruit professional staff from educational institutions and to cooperate with these institutions in the development of new products and thus create higher added value. Such an environment can be achieved by appropriate tax adjustments, by improving the conditions for financing development by banks and not by additional burdens on the economy, especially small business and agriculture to which we are currently witnessing. These measures drive investors out of our country, which indirectly means reducing the employment opportunities of graduates of higher vocational education. Let me go back to the content of the proposed law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the intention of the law to improve the preparation of higher school study programmes, which will be based on new harmonised professional standards and the found labour market needs. The design of higher education programmes will thus be consistent with the integration of the requirements for the development of the profession and the requirements of work, and the starting point for the preparation of higher education programmes will be adopted by the Professional and Professional Education Council, in agreement with the Minister. As the most positive in our group, however, we assess the solutions relating to the rights of higher education students. These will be regulated in relation to the responsibility of students to fulfil their obligations under the study programmes. In order to prevent so-called fictitious enrollments, rights from student status are limited only to those higher education students who have not benefited from student status rights in higher education programmes. The proposed law thus provides that a person who has been enrolled for three years in a higher education course cannot be enrolled in a regular study. In our view, this severely restricts fictitious entries and also rationalises the use of public funds. We have been pointing out this issue in the Slovenian People's Party's Group for a long time. We have already requested the action of the competent ministries in this area in the previous mandate, but for our unknown reasons nothing has been done. Let me finish. We will support the proposed amendment to the Higher Education Act in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because we believe that the proposed changes are welcome and necessary if we want to make higher vocational education more effective. I hope we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members! The aim of each country is to develop the economy as much as possible, to maximise employment and to maximise the level of the education structure of the population. It is therefore essential that the education system and the economy follow the path of development along with the hand in hand, which, of course, means close cooperation between them and the need for a rapid response of the education system to the needs of the economy. This is particularly important in times of economic crisis, as the economy has to adapt to business trends and market needs even faster than normal. As a result, the educational system is one that can help to do so by placing the appropriate staff on the labour market. It must always have a sufficiently wide and wide range of choice of all kinds of professions. This novel, as assessed by the DeSUS Group, follows these aspirations, as it is significantly complementing and improving the role of higher education in order to create conditions for rapid adjustment to the needs of the economy. It is so important that the basis of higher education programmes is a professional standard that is harmonised between the social partners, and it is important that each programme is shaped in a close relationship between the profession and the sphere of work. The effectiveness of the transfer of expertise will certainly contribute to this. We therefore welcome the solution that higher education lecturers can also be top experts who do not meet the condition of pedagogical-Andragog education, but can transfer their special knowledge and achievements from their careers to the learning youth and future workforce. We also support the proposed changes to the current law in other objectives of the novel. We agree with the proposed entry solution in the study programmes, which prevent the use of entries, because fictitious entries are a real problem. On the one hand, abuse of status means abuse of the rights arising from this status. Here I am referring to student benefits in terms of food, transport, health insurance, student work and the like. On the other hand, filling study sites for such abuses means preventing study for those who have a real intention to study. The DeSUS Group also supports the proposed law in the work relating to the simplification of accreditation procedures, the integration of the procedures for the appointment of lecturers of higher schools and the adoption of study programmes. The DeSUS Group will support the amendment of the Higher Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mrs Ludmila Novak have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u182	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Amendments to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to Higher Vocational Education are good and are based on the text prepared largely by the previous team of the Ministry of Education. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia particularly welcome the fact that the law indicates the direction of a stronger integration of education and the economy. We believe that there is a need for closer integration of theory and practice in education, especially in secondary education and vocational education and at higher education level. Christian Democrats are committed to linking the theory with practice and to achieving quality and usable knowledge. Above all, we need the education and professions that the economy is asking for. We are surprised, however, that the law has no financial implications for the state budget, as stated in the paper. How will we finance these integration processes? Maybe that's a nice point, maybe it's just words, we'll see. We also support measures to limit the use of rights and benefits arising from student status. Those students who have already exercised these rights in higher education will therefore be prevented from making a fictitious entry and thereby abuse of the rights set out in this Title. In New Slovenia we are also warning not a few problems that this novel does not solve, but perhaps it could. For example, a problem with the limited number of appointments of higher education lecturers to four modules. If the programme shuts down, the lecturer shall remain and be bound by the deadlines for the acquisition of new appointments. We propose that the Ministry include in the amendment an amendment to the amendment to suspend the appointment to the higher education lecturer, together with the suspension of the programme. If it is not possible to arrange this here, we suggest to the Ministry that it deal with another novel. The New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mr Jožef Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! We have before us an operational law, which according to Members of Positive Slovenia is an upgrade and an improvement of the law already signed by the previous government. In the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia supports the approach of amending and enacting the law, as was the case with the Higher Education Act. Both interested and professional public, trade unions, students and the community of higher vocational schools participated in the drafting of the law. They were all somehow taken into account, of course not 100%, but satisfactory. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act follows the warnings of the economy and is somehow written on the skin of both the economy and all those who have warned that as many professions as possible should be involved in education. In particular, changes are being made towards creating conditions for better and faster adaptation of higher vocational education in the economy, simplifying the process of accreditation of programmes and the appointment of lecturers, improving the link between theory and practice, so we can expect more operational skills in graduates, which also means immediate work and knowledge at work itself, limiting the fictitious entry, as has been previously pointed out several times before, restricting the transition of students from school to school, there have been too many abuses so far. Students' rights thus become increasingly dependent on their obligation to fulfil their study obligations. In the process of education, there are both top-level experts from the economy, for which it is not necessary for them to have a pedagogical andrago education and, of course, top-notch theorists, and this synergy will certainly produce better results than it has done so far. So we can also expect greater participation of these experts in the education process. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Higher Vocational Education Act is more vital and operational and therefore has our support. He also had the support of everyone on the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, which unanimously supported the Act. Therefore, in the Group of Members, Positive Slovenia does not oppose and support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mrs Mateja Pučnik have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support amendments and additions to the Higher Vocational Education Act. This law began under the previous government and has not changed under the current minister in key points. The changes to the law primarily reflect the concern of adapting rapidly to the needs of higher vocational education to the economy, which is crucial in times of crisis and high unemployment, particularly among young people. The new law also provides for a simplified and related process of accreditation of study programmes and a procedure to verify the relevance of lecturers and connects it with an external quality assessment under the framework of the NAKVIS, which will also be responsible for the process of re-accreditation. In the parliamentary group, we particularly support the amendment of the law in terms of limiting fictitious entries, which does not limit access to education, but rather restricts the right to education within the framework of public funds and the related abuses by candidates who do not intend to study, but want only to ensure rights from student status. The aim of the law is also to strengthen the cooperation and integration of higher education schools with higher education facilities. Greater attention needs to be given to integration within our educational system in the future. The bill therefore brings many solutions that will improve the situation in the area of higher vocational education and that is why we will also support the amendment of the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, which will take place half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of a bill to supplement the War Invalids Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of four Members and a group of first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, for further explanation of the proposal for a decision, or to the Vice-President present here. Mag. Barbara Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. The Committee considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons, which was submitted by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption pursuant to Article 88 of the Constitution and Article 19 of the Law on Members, with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. The College of the President of the National Assembly confirmed the procedure. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities participated in the work of the Committee, with the Minister, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative of the State Council and representatives of interested organisations. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, the work, health care and disabled persons, which did not support the proposal by law, the opinion of the Government, which also does not support the proposal by law, and the opinion of the Medical Commission of the second degree. In its introductory explanation, the representative presented a proposal for a law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said in her presentation that their comments had been taken into account by the amendment tabled. The representative of the Government then said that the Government was opposed to the solutions contained in the bill and focused in particular on the substantive reasons. The imposition of disability status based on the disease from the time of military aggression on the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 is problematic due to the fact that, after the two decades following the end of the aggression, our country has been hampered by the identification of the causal link between disease and war effort or war events that are expected to cause health problems. During these 20 years, age and other degenerative diseases, including other stressful situations, have also occurred, which further makes it difficult to establish this causal link between the events of 1991 and 2015. In the opinion of the Government, it was proposed that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons should not be considered further. In the debate on that proposal for a decision, some discussers considered that the beneficiaries were very few and that it would be appropriate for them to be given the opportunity to regulate their status through the procedure before the Medical Commission. The Committee decided that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons was not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the Magi bill. For Matthew Tonin's opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u190	Honourable Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! This law has already been tabled by Nova Slovenija. That's when you rejected him, so now we're reinvesting him. In 1991, Slovenia had to protect its independence and independence by force. In this war, it was reported that 35 people had fallen from the Red Cross. Many were also injured, and some, or many, gave their health to defend their homeland. The State tried to repay all these people in 1995 by also adopting the War Disability Act, by 1997 which created a period in which all those affected by the 1991 war lost good health or their health deteriorated, regulated and acquired the status of a war invalid. During this two-year period, some failed to settle this status. Some, not because of ignorance, but because they had not been able to obtain all the medical certificates by 1997. According to the Ministry, such beneficiaries or individuals are expected to be 37. So we're talking about the number 37, we're talking about the 37 individuals and individuals who donated their health to Slovenia for independent and independent Slovenia, and because they didn't manage to settle all matters by 1997, they can't enjoy the status of a war invalid today. What do we propose with this law? By means of the law before you, we suggest that those who participated in or were injured in the war for Slovenia in any way or their health deteriorated so that by 2015 they can regulate the status of a war invalid. We don't give these people any good eyes, these people still need all the necessary medical excuses and certificates for this status. The main findings on the committee against our law were that he was nomotechnically incomplete and that he was not good. I don't have to say no to these readings, because they just don't. I have explained many times that our Group of Members has fully complied with and followed the instructions of the Legislative and Legal Service and has improved the law by nomotechnical means. Expectations that it is too long a distance from this war, that it has been too long and that there will be nothing to prove the causal link between the war and the current state of health of the individual — I do not know why Members would be burdened with these things. If we write down in the law that each individual through a medical commission is obliged to prove it, then this is no longer our concern and it seems entirely unfounded to me that the coalition Members are concerned that this distance is too long. Don't worry. If it is too long and if the individual fails to prove these reasons through the medical commission, then this status will not be justified at all and your concern is therefore completely overstated. In the past, our colleagues in the SDS and SLS have supported us in these efforts, so I believe they will support us this time as well. However, I would ask very nicely for the support of the coalition Members as well, but I would also remind them of the previous debate on the deleted. Apparently, the distance there wasn't problematic. Why time distances are not problematic when they are deleted and those who have suffered damage in the war for Slovenia are problematic. I just can't understand these things. I see no real reason to oppose this law, so I ask you to support this law by voting against the conclusion that this law is inappropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and by Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Colleagues and colleagues from Nova Slovenije have re- tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the War Disabled Act proposing a new deadline within which members of the Territorial Defence, who participated in the independence war for Slovenia, may apply for the status of military disabled persons. We have also carefully examined this new proposal in the Citizens' List. In doing so, we note that the proposal does not contain any new solution, a new fact, a new look or a new argument that would not have been taken into account when deciding on the first amendment at the September meeting of the National Assembly. More. The consideration of this proposal was also submitted to the opinion of the medical commission of the second degree, which states that, in the case of a person within six years, i.e. from the end of the independence war until the deadline for the submission of an application for recognition of the status of a war invalid, the medical profession should show signs of a disease, as well as the worsening of the pre-chronic disease caused by the 1991 war. Due to all the above facts, the Civil Code has not changed its opinion. We therefore support the opinion of the parental committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and Mr Janez Ribič have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Messengers and Members! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal for a law reintroduced by colleagues from Nova Slovenije and supplemented by the opinion of the Legal Service of the National Assembly, which provides for the possibility of re-establishing the status of war or civil disabled person for Slovenia to the beneficiary or family members during the period of up to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We will therefore vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for consideration, because we believe that such a law should be adopted and that it is entirely possible to adopt it. In our opinion, all other explanations do not hold back. As Members of the Slovenian People's Party have said at the previous hearing and at the Home Committee, I also repeat at this reading, the fact is that this is an extremely small number of beneficiaries, where it is certainly possible to identify a real situation by individual examination of cases and on the basis of medical documentation and all the medical checks and tests that have been carried out, to establish the actual link between the cause and the health consequences that they have suffered as a result of their participation in the war for Slovenia. In fact, it is a kind of correction of the injustices to wartime and civilian disabled people of war for Slovenia who were unable to settle their status in a timely manner. We will therefore vote in the Slovenian People's Party against the rejection of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the 17th regular meeting of the National Assembly, the draft law which regulated this same subject was under consideration and of which the applicants were also the same. The Group of Members and Members from New Slovenia insists on their proposal, even though the law has already been rejected in Parliament, and has not been favoured by the Government. Nor was he supported by the State Council. This time, too, there is no support from the Government and the State Council and the national working body of the National Assembly. At that time, the DeSUS Group did not support the proposal and this time we will not support it. Following the proposal, the deadline for submitting applications for recognition of rights or disability status for members of the Territorial Defence who participated in the war for Slovenia would be reopened by the end of 2015. In the DeSUS Group, we have been and are still of the view that the key problem in this law is the questionability of the causal link between illness, injury or war effort or income that is expected to cause health problems in such a long, more than two decades, period after aggression. In this procedure, additional expertise is available. This is the opinion of the medical commission of the second degree, which, according to the principles of the medical profession, notes that in a person during the period until the end of 1997, i.e. the deadline for submitting applications for recognition of the status of a war invalid, the signs of the disease, as well as the deterioration of the pre-chronic disease caused by the 1991 war events, should be shown. However, the fact that this opinion also shows that there was an opportunity to obtain status and rights even when treatment or medical treatment has not been completed until the expiry date for the application of the status. The DeSUS Group does not support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you very much. New Slovenia and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u198	Your Honor! In New Slovenia we were forced to introduce this law for the second time. I do not want the Christian Democrats to be recognized by the fact that, in this mandate of the National Assembly, we have again and again tabled this law, and I now predict that if you refuse it, we will do it again and re table this law. We will do so until the coalition adopts our marriage or until the coalition prepares its marriage. If you are disturbed by the fact that New Slovenia is a candidate, you can also write your marriage for prestigious reasons, file your marriage, and somehow solve the problem in this way. There are options, only solutions need to be found. We are convinced that it is the debt of the country, that it is the debt of Slovenia to those who have given their health to independent and independent Slovenia. I find it difficult to listen to arguments when looking at all possible angles to oppose such a law. Once again, I would like to make the following very clear. These people don't get that status. These 37 people who have been rejected will not get this status in the night, they will not get it in their eyes, but they will have to prove their health consequences and show it through the medical commission. And if the medical commission does not decide that there is a certain link between the war on Slovenia and its health, then these people will not be entitled to this status. And I very kindly ask you, all fellow Members, that as a reason to oppose this law you point out that it is too long a distance of time. If you stress this and if you point out it, then I need to remind you again and again of the debate on deleted persons. There was no problem of time distance, although it was the same time relationship, for the same time distance. The difference is that according to our law, under the War Disability Act, those who have lost their health in war will be treated individually. Everyone's gonna have to get medical records to show off their disease from the war. On the other hand, the flat-rate beneficiaries receive compensation. I don't want to paralyze or now to involve all things or all stories that were created at the time of independence, but it can be seen that we simply don't have the right measure of justice at certain points. We defend one thing once, and in very similar cases, we have a diametric opposite. I think it is completely unnecessary to emphasise that Nova Slovenija will vote against the decision proposed by the Committee that the proposal for a law is inappropriate for further consideration. And if you vote in favour of this coalition and Members today, so that you vote against this decision, you give this law an opportunity to continue its path, you further improve it on this path, and you complete it, and you finally eliminate this injustice, which is unacceptable. To conclude, I do announce once again that if the coalition and the majority in this National Assembly do not hear us, then this law will also be put in place for the third time, for the fourth time, as long as it is necessary for this law to be adopted and the injustice corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The following is the word of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you very much again for your word. I hope, my fellow Members and colleagues, that they do not guide anyone in the content of such laws in any way or other of the most prestigious reasons. But I'm not gonna talk about it, it's just a moral thing, some have it, others don't. A few words about content or procedure. Within a good month or two months, we are dealing with practically the second amendment of the same proposer's law with identical content. The proposer proposes that the time limit for the application of recognition or entitlement to the status of a war invalid and the rights arising from that status be reopened and extended for a further two years, i.e. until 2015. In doing so, it should be mentioned once again that the period after the applicable law on disabled persons is the period of war for disabled persons from the period of the self-sustainment war, which we have already heard today, on 31 December 1997. At the first reading of the amendment of the same proposal in Positive Slovenia, we warned that reopening the deadlines for re-opening in respect of respect for the Constitution and equality before the law could be controversial. I can argue, I say. On the other hand, we have already drawn attention to the medical profession’s opinion, which I will try to summarize in a simplified way. It is simply too long a distance for the medical profession to determine the direct link between the health status of the individual or injuries and war events. In Positive Slovenia, despite the fact that we have already rejected the amendment of the law on both grounds, we have also tried to obtain or find an answer in the dialogue with the Ministry, whether there is a need, a real need to amend the basic law, it is said that there are potential beneficiaries who, due to the excessive treatment and medical procedures, have missed the deadline for submitting a request for recognition of the status of a war invalid, or because of this too long of the procedure, could not do so. Here I should mention that, for the first time, the number of these potential beneficiaries is not in fact known, nor has the applicant mentioned this in the explanation of the law. If you've got the numbers, I'm sorry, I don't have these numbers, even after a call to the proposer on the board of these numbers, we didn't get them. Secondly, we have also obtained the opinion of the medical commission of the second level, from which it is very clear, by insisting on positive Slovenia, and in this point I would like to challenge the suggestions of the proposaler Tonin that not all have been able to obtain all medical certificates. In the light of this opinion we have obtained, I think that you have all the Members' groups, to our will, as far as I am aware, this opinion has also been divided. So let me just summarize. During that time, a person could apply for recognition of the status of a war invalid. If treatment has not been completed, the disability procedure has been established temporarily. The status and rights on this basis, according to the disabled, have nevertheless been provisionally recognised. However, following the expiry of the transitional period, the administrative unit introduced the procedure under official duty. The person was invited to resubmit the relevant medical documentation. There is a reassessment of the war on disability before the Ministry's competent medical commission. Following the assurances we received in Positive Slovenia, the procedures should be clear and should also take into account the fact that, due to excessive procedures, the beneficiaries may not have received timely health certificates. But as a matter of fact, because of the procedure itself, no one was to be released from treatment. It follows from all these additional explanations, as stated in the decision of the parent working body, that the law is not suitable for further consideration and that this decision will also be followed by the Positive Slovenia. In conclusion, though, it may be very short - lived. These discussions take place several times in the National Assembly. One of these discussions was also at the time of the introduced law in 2005. And then, I believe that [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate...]] Member groups or parties supporting this law today have opposed such content. As I say, I believe it is not for unreasonable reasons, but for valid reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u202	All welcome, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members! In the SDS, we supported the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons in the second reading. We had the same opinion in the SDS Group two months ago when a similar proposal was tabled. It is the exercise of rights arising from the war events of the Slovenian Liberation War in 1991, when a participant in the Territorial Defence or other units suffered health damage due to disease injury or health impairment, in connection with war events. According to the old War Disability Act, the beneficiary was allowed to exercise his rights until 31. 12. 1997 Over the following years, requests were made, I tracked down somewhere, 38 beneficiaries and their requests were rejected. The new amendment of the law provides a new deadline for obtaining this status and rights flowing from the entry into force of the law up to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is also the rights of family members of a person who died as a result of illness or injury caused by war events in 1991. A specific example of the participant in the attack on the tank unit has been known, which after a long period became ill with severe mental illness and became disabled. The number of all interested beneficiaries is not high and will not represent a greater financial burden. If we supported the amendment of the law, we would show great respect for all participants in the self-sustaining war, and in particular respect for and gratitude for those who have lost their health or died as a result of war events. You don't give a disability status just to get anyone to sign up. Evidence, examinations and documentation of the medical profession and decisions of the medical commission are required. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we continue to support efforts to make it possible by law to grant rights to beneficiaries who suffered disability as a result of the 1991 war events, and until 21 December 1997, for various reasons, they have not submitted a request. We will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats and Dr Ljubica Jelusič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We believe in the sincere purposes of the proposed law and also believe that all the consequences of the war could not be ascertained and properly documented by the end of 1997, which was the deadline set by the War Disabled Act, adopted in November 1995. However, we believe that a fundamental substantive consideration must be made whether, after 15 years of the deadline for applications for recognition of the status of a war invalid and for 22 years after the end of military aggression, it is indeed possible to say with certainty that certain diseases or their deterioration are the result of military aggression. We believe that it is almost impossible to establish with certainty a direct causal link to the formation or deterioration of a particular disease. In this regard, medical experts as well as the second-degree opinion of the Medical Commission, which has been cited many times today, have also attached us to this consideration. So it is not a question of the relationship between the coalition and the opposition and their different possible views on the participants in the self-sustaining war and their contribution to the independence of our country and to the duty of the country to these participants, but it is a question of the medical profession or medical profession and whether it is, after 22 years, capable of finding a so-called direct causal link to the emergence and deterioration of a particular disease. The draft law was not supported by the competent committee of the Council of State, nor by the Committee of the National Assembly for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion on the proposal for a law, also considers that, I quote, "...it is substantively questionable how, after 22 years of alleged health impairment or worsening of the disease, these persons could prove a causal link between military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 and health damage." End of quote. During that period, there were also old diseases, diseases, and injuries due to other and different activities, lifestyles, and so on. Despite the fact that the applicant has eliminated the nomotechnic irregularities and inconsistencies with the Constitution, which was pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Social Democrats will not be supported by the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Disability. However, with regard to the issue of war disabled persons, they would also point to the professional aspect that could be felt in the performance of mags. Thousands. This is a question of the consequences that are of a psychological nature and that do not actually appear immediately at the end of the war, but with some participants only far after the end of the war, namely 15, 20 years and more, usually called post-traumatic stress syndrome by the medical profession. With regard to such consequences, the Slovenian medical profession has not yet agreed whether there have been any Slovenian participants in the self-sustainment war due to such psychological consequences. But I think we need this test he's tying. Tonin and colleagues from Nova Slovenije are trying to push forward with the law, to resolve first at the professional level. And when the medical profession in Slovenia admits that perhaps there is a post-traumatic stress syndrome in Slovenia and not just some direct physical damage that could have been documented after the end of the war, so when the profession acknowledges it, I think that we will be able to attach more easily to these bills in the legislative sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, which is half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Act on the Regulation of the Market in Work after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You are faced with important changes to the labour market regulation law, which relate mainly to labour intervention agencies or agencies. The key objective of the amendments is to limit infringements of workers' rights in this area and, on the other hand, to ensure higher quality of services provided. The proposal for legislative changes was created in cooperation with the unions and the Association of Employment Agencies. He received unanimous support from the Economic and Social Council. The key changes brought by the novelties relate to a new clearer definition of work-providing activities to another user. New conditions have been added for carrying out activities which, for example, the employer will have to have, as its main activity, a registered intervention of the temporary labour force if he wishes to carry out this activity. The employer will also have to provide a bank guarantee of at least 30 000 euros, and a foreign legal or natural person will have to have a branch in Slovenia if he wants to carry out this activity. We are also complementing the employer's obligation to prevent the establishment of a relationship between the employer and the user, all the ownership-related companies. As a prerequisite for entering into registers or registers, which is also a prerequisite for the start of an operation, a new authorisation for the exercise of an activity shall be introduced. There will also be increased surveillance options, and the submission of an independent auditor's report on the operation of such an agency will be introduced, and we will also introduce monitoring of the implementation of activities by a special expert commission appointed by the Minister or Minister responsible for the work. There are new fines for infringements of the statutory provisions where a higher range is established and the fines themselves are higher. I believe that these changes will make more order in our labour market, but we are certainly aware that legal changes are not enough, that it is particularly important to monitor the implementation of these legislative changes and to monitor effectively. I believe that you will support the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mag. Barbara Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u208	The Committee considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure and endorsed by the College. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities participated in the work of the Committee, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and representatives of the professional and interested public. The representative of the proposer, the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities briefly presented the draft law, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. The representative of the Council of State presented the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposal of the law. In the debate on articles and amendments tabled in Article 2, it was pointed out by the trade union representative that the proposed amendment to Article 85 of the current law would allow for a more active role for the social partners in the labour market. It was pointed out that the proposed provision did not implement the proposed amendment to Article 2. In this regard, the Minister replied that the basic objective is indeed to enable trade unions and employers to play a more active role in the labour market, so the concerns raised will be examined and, if possible, the proposed amendment in the next legislative procedure, which would of course complement the provision. With regard to Article 7, which strengthens the conditions for carrying out the temporary labour intervention activity, support was expressed by all discussers for any solution that would help to prevent abuse and exploitation of workers. With regard to the amendment, which also provides for the submission of a bank guarantee of at least EUR 30 000, the representative of the Employment Agency Association noted the difficulties faced by some agencies that are already trying to obtain bank guarantees to cover transactions with larger subscribers or users. He pointed out that, as a result, this provision was more written on the skin of large international agencies, while it could pose an additional problem for smaller, in particular domestic agencies to carry out their activities. At the end, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition groups. Prepared for second reading at the National Assembly is the complementary proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Act, which are necessary due to the numerous abuses identified by the Labour Inspectorate in the intervention of such work. In particular, we support the employer's obligation to recognise as posted workers all the same rights arising from the employment relationship and to allow posted workers, without additional conditions and restrictions, to work late with the contracting authority. We hope and hope that in this way some unemployed person will be given regular employment. We are pleased that our amendment to the law was respected and covered in the amendment of the coalition. With the amendment, we have proposed that all concessionaires, domestic or foreign, as well as confederations or trade unions and employers' associations representing the country should meet the same conditions for labour intervention. It is only right that all entities have to fulfil all the conditions so that they have the necessary staff, premises and equipment to carry out their activities and meet the other conditions laid down in more detail by the Minister or Minister responsible for the work. We will also support the addition to Article 2, which actually allows trade unions and employers to carry out the activity of labour intervention, although this is not their main registered activity, as is the case for other entities. Your Honor! We will support the law in the hope that these changes will be achieved with the aim of regulating the situation in the field of labour intervention and improving the rights of posted workers. We will also support it in the hope that the announcement by the representative of the association of posting agencies will not be fulfilled, which has positively assessed the purpose of the law on the home committee and has drawn attention to the issue of bank guarantees and added to the Committee's Article 7 in this regard. He warned that such a solution is water not mills to large international agencies, but for small ones it will be harder to eat in the future than it is today. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian People's Party also call on the Government to monitor this area and timely action if it turns out that the Agency's representative was right, because we do not want to open doors to foreign agencies at the expense of closing domestic espies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Good-bye to all of you again! Initially, I should like to remind you that this law was created in cooperation with the agreed solutions of the social partners, the Association of Employment Agencies and Trade Unions. No Economic and Social Council has received unanimous support and even here in the National Assembly it has already been confirmed in the home labour body without a vote against. I assume that will be the case in the plenary session. Why am I stressing this? Because it is one force of rare laws that would enjoy so much support. Obviously, wherever there is a sincere will to resolve certain problems, we can go together, regardless of other interests or political options. Labour law is one of the areas where violations are most common. Amendments to the labour market regulation law in the field of the operation of so-called labour intervention agencies are necessary due to the many abuses that are taking place in this area. In October, 203 employers were enrolled in the register of legal and natural persons in order to carry out the provision of services to another employer who provide labour services to the user. Slovenia is therefore the country with the largest intervention and provision agencies. A look at the list of companies registered for the transfer of workers to another employer shows that they are also engaged in such agency activities, which are also registered for the activities of the school, automotive, bakery, fruit, vegetable sales and what else could be found. Of course, with us, the free economic initiative is legally secured. However, when there are grave violations of the law and abuses of people, the labour force, it is necessary to do so. Let me just remind you, for example, of Zito, where, through the Slovak employment agency, contracts of employment were made for EUR 327 gross. In addition, Luke Koper, who worked with employment agencies on the basis of business service contracts for the provision of port services. In fact, it has proved to be a disguised loan of workers who did the same work for companies as regularly employed in Luka, but at a significantly lower price. Next. On the Internet, we have the opportunity to monitor the day-to-day transmission of workers abroad, with the majority of them proving to be far lower wages than the user's employer actually provides. The difference, of course, goes to the intermediary, literally stealing half the wages from the workers. Of course, the Labour Inspectorate has identified a number of abuses in this area. Here, however, it must immediately be said that the penalties prescribed for infringements are quite low. This amendment substantially fixes the range of penalties and increases the penalties, which, of course, we welcome, as we believe that the highly prescribed penalties can have a dissuasive effect. In the DeSUS Group, we also welcome the tightening of the conditions for the establishment of an agency and the strict conditions for the management of labour intervention activities alone. Clearer legal definitions or definitions are also important for the effective prevention of the abuse of laws, such as the definition of work provision activities for users, so that there will be a clear distinction between agency work and the provision of services based on civil contracts. Members and Members of the DeSUS will be happy to support this novel because its aim is to limit infringements of workers' rights, to limit unfair forms of work and to ensure better quality of labour intervention services. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we call for more effective supervision of this area or the whole area of labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group and Mr Jožef Horvat have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with a fellow Member, honourable Members and honourable Members! This novel of the Labour Market Regulation Law brings a number of good solutions, which we also support Members and Members of the New Slovenia. We are particularly pleased with the fact that the law is in line with the social partners and some other stakeholders in the labour market. We support the introduction of stricter criteria for the operation of agencies that communicate workers to employees or users. It is good that this solution is also supported by the Association of Employment Agencies. We believe that this will achieve higher standards for the protection of workers' rights. In some cases, the field of agency work has already confined itself to modern slavery, which is by no means part of a modern regulated society of a Member State of the European Union. In New Slovenia, we call on the Ministry to provide strong control to prevent the abuse of the rules. Offenders who shed a bad light on all the agencies involved should be stopped. We also welcome the possibility of allowing the social partners to obtain a concession for the provision of labour market services. We would like to see this measure at least a little help in solving catastrophically high unemployment. We caution, however, that the law should allow all concessionaires equal conditions or opportunities to obtain concessions because we do not want new injustices to be caused by law. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia advocate the inclusion of European standards in our labour law regarding the provision of working conditions, working hours, holidays, job protection, conditions of employment or termination of employment. However, regulating working conditions that go beyond these standards must take place in a dialogue between employers and workers or their associations or unions. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Labour Market Regulation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Positive Slovenia and mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u216	Your Honor, once again, hello! This time, too, greeting the minister with a coworker! In the last mini reform of the labour market, the issue of so-called agency workers remained open. The positive Slovenia had already announced changes in this area after talking with agency representatives or agency workers. Serious and responsible agencies, as we have already heard today, have supported efforts to change the proposed direction. This was also one of the coalition commitments in drawing up a coalition agreement from the field. The fact is, I will not repeat all the cases that have already been exposed today, but the fact remains that this area is relatively disorderly, with inadequate supervision, that it allows abuse and, on the other hand, workers remain relatively unprotected. Currently, 203 employers are enrolled in the register in Slovenia for the intervention of work, legal and natural persons, and some interventions are carried out even as a side activity. In the field of job provision, users are being abused. Despite the fact that the employer, so-called agency, at the time of entry into the register fulfils all the conditions laid down, there is no doubt in practice a violation of the labour market regulation law, the rules on the conditions for the performance of the activity and, of course, the way in which the employer cooperates with the employment and regulations governing labour relations, health and safety at work and the employment and work of foreigners. There are many laws that fail to comply with or violate due to inadequate legal arrangements in this area of the motherland. The current regime allows for the relative registration of a new legal person whose responsible person remains the same with a legal person who has been removed from the register because of violations of the applicable rules. Therefore, as it is said, the proposed amendment in question lays down stricter conditions for obtaining an authorisation to register or register and also proposes higher fines for violators of law. I'm not going to repeat the detailed contents again. The minister just flew over it. What is important is that the law has also been unanimously supported by stakeholders, those directly linked to the law, the social partners and also within Parliament on the labour market. It is important that, with the solutions proposed, we want to regulate the areas of agency work in some European comparable way, and in particular our aim is to prevent abuses that are or are taking place and, of course, to protect the weaker side in the process, i.e. the worker who is sent to work through the agency. As is clear from all the introductory explanations, the positive Slovenia supports the proposal for the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u218	A respected minister with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! A promise makes a debt. When we coordinated labour market reform last year and also early this year, we were still doing a lot of agency work. The topic was very much at stake, and one of the important conditions for the whole reform was also linked to the so-called agency work. That is why we have legislated quotas which, according to my assessment, have significantly affected the scope of agency workers in this country. We have had some extraordinary cases where some employer, who also employed thousands of people, had a huge share, stronger than 50% of the employees involved through the agency, and this is actually an anomaly that we have also tried to eliminate by reforming the labour market. And I hope we're done with it. However, since we had only partially opened this labour market regulation law in the reform of the labour market, we did not have all the articles open, we committed ourselves to transforming this law into the share that is ahead of us today. I am predicting the support of the Slovenian Democratic Party for these solutions because they are going in the direction that the social partner and I have committed ourselves to in some way establishing a level playing field for the work of so-called agency workers, as well as regular employees, in order to force the Agency to comply with professional standards by tightening the conditions of the Agency, that is to say that this intervention is defined as its main activity. We have also increased the reliability of the operation of such companies and thus paid claims to workers. In this respect, we further tighten the conditions for carrying out this activity. However, we tighten the conditions so that only those agencies that have serious long-term objectives here can come and stay on the market, so that some hunters and speculators, when we are also talking about the rights of these agency workers, do not get rid of it. I would point out that, unfortunately, agency work has received quite a number of negative sounds in Slovenia, mainly due to abuse and media reverberations. However, the Agency's work or the intervention of this work is quite widespread and I think that an effective measure is also an effective measure for greater flexibility in the labour market. Due to the negotiating stiffness of Slovenian regulation in this area it is worth maintaining this form, but it is appropriate to regulate it in a manner that does not result in abuse. This is said to give its positive effects on the labour market rather than its negative effects. An interesting feature of this novel is the provision on the provision of labour market services and the involvement of social partners or trade unions under relatively specific conditions. They are also not subject to the amendment of the coalition to the need for registration for such an activity; otherwise they must fulfil all other conditions, as is the case with other legal persons wishing to register for such activities, both human resources, spatial and other conditions prescribed by the Ministry. The question therefore arises whether this is some additional money or in fact a motive for the inclusion of trade unions in this sphere or in the provision of services on the labour market. In view of the positive solutions that this amendment brings in terms of upgrading labour market reform, we will support this amendment in the SDS, otherwise we expect further clarifications on the role of trade unions in the provision of labour market services.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you. Dr Ljubica Jelusic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u220	Nice greeting, Mr. President-respected. Nice greeting to everyone once again, colleagues and colleagues! In the SD Group, we support all those measures that lead to prevention or at least a reduction in the number of abuses that are taking place in the field of job provision for users. We believe that it is very important because the amendments to the regulation of this work have been followed by agreements with the social partners, and in some ways they are also a link between the coalition and the opposition. It is important to note that the area of labour market reform is the area in which we are working, regardless of the situation in the ruling or non-controlling structure, but we are all working together to take certain steps forward. And in these steps, it is important that we support those who care that the situation of workers in our country is good or at least that there is no unnecessary abuse and exploitation of these workers. One of the objectives has certainly been to reduce the number 203 of the intervention agency or to provide work for workers. The new conditions proposed by this novelty for the registration of companies able to carry out this activity are likely to lead not only to greater transparency but also to a smaller number of agencies. Today, in a single position of the Group of Members, it has already been pointed out that, on the basis of this novelty in our market, it is likely that it will be possible to see the reinforcement of larger, particularly internationally-established agencies. We believe that this fact should also be some kind of incentive for those agencies in the Slovenian space that primarily deal with the intervention of workers, users, which now also requires that their services be enriched as much as possible and put on the most professional basis possible. We also think it is important to draw attention to the news that, in addition to companies and espouses, these activities can also be carried out by confederates and trade unions that are representative in the territory of the State, as well as by employers' associations, which are also representative in the territory of the State. This is a novelty introduced in the law on the proposal of trade unions and is also linked to the amendment to Article 2 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act. This Article 2 defines these new solutions and who would be able to perform all the new work activities for users. This amendment refers to the fact that confederations and trade unions and employers' associations should not be allowed to register for this activity. It is the law that requires all job providers to register to workers in a new way. However, since trade unions and employers' associations are involved in an organisation that has a different legal status than those in force for business operators, they would not, of course, be able to meet the requirement of compulsory registration of activities. We believe that this is a new challenge for trade unions and employers' associations, and we hope that this new challenge will also be well met on their part. The law brings a variety of novelties, which the Minister has presented very well in her opening statement, as well as colleagues and colleagues have talked about them, so I will not go into the details myself. Let me conclude once again that the Social Democrats support both the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Market Regulation Act and the amendment to Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Mr Director, Members and Members, once again a nice greeting! Labour agencies already represent a major player in the labour market for workers in the Slovenian area. Intermediaries are becoming an increasingly important link between workers and employers, and they are becoming less and less likely to find workers directly on the labour market as a result of such an option. For this reason, it was therefore necessary to draw up a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act and to regulate and correct those provisions which have proved to be bad and which have allowed certain intermediaries too frequent infringements. It should be stressed that the Ministry has succeeded in harmonising the law with the social partners, and the proposal to amend the law also agrees with the Association of Employment Agencies. This is an important information that proves that serious and honest agencies care about how matters are handled and that they themselves are aware that there is also a violation due to the current overlying legislation. In this respect, the proposal for a law strengthens the conditions for authorisation and registration in the Agency Register, thereby limiting the number of agencies exceeding 200 during this period, which is very large for a relatively small labour market. A similar number, as it was before recently, is the number of student work mediators. Among other things, the new conditions that the Agency will have to meet for entry into the register are that it will not have to have outstanding obligations in the last two years to pay for work and will have to have a registered job intervention activity as its main activity. They will also have to have their branch registered with intermediaries from abroad in Slovenia. On our part, we may also reiterate that the labour market is also being entered into the territory of the country of representative trade unions or trade unions and employers' associations. The proposal for a law to regulate agency intervention will be supported in the Civil Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 11. 2013 I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I might, before I go to the amendment, just say, maybe give answers to some of the exposed things. Before that, I would certainly like to commend the fact that the law will be adopted with the support of all parliamentary groups, where it is seen that, if things are to continue, we do not need to look at things differently. I am pleased to be able to continue where it was done in the labour law. Otherwise, I didn't have a law in my drawer that had already been prepared, so it came after the term of office. However, it certainly goes this way and is in line with the social partners. The only thing that's been a little open, and maybe you should say a word, is about bank guarantees. In the initial proposal of the law there was a higher basic capital, it was agreed with the social partners, but then we cannot talk about the basic capital in the espies, so a bank guarantee was given for espionage as some form of guarantee to pay workers' rights if anything went wrong. However, then the Legislative and Legal Service in the National Assembly pointed out that this was not equal to the treatment of economic operators and was given, by this logic, that the bank guarantee was for all entities. So for the stakes, for all economic operators of EUR 30 000. When we looked at foreign arrangements, we found that such low bank guarantees had no place else to go to all entities in countries with such arrangements for significantly higher bank guarantees. Therefore, the bank guarantee in the proposal cannot be reduced. However, we certainly believe that this does not mean that foreign labour brokers will appear on our market, but that our providers will also receive a bank guarantee because it is relatively low compared to requirements abroad. However, as regards the amendment before you, it has been pointed out on the Committee that, according to the dictates of the original article agreed with the social partners, it does not allow for the actual confederation of trade unions and representative organisations by employers to be involved in the provision of services on the labour market, since the labour market concessions regulation makes it clear that those wishing to provide these services on the labour market must be registered for the purpose of carrying out this activity. In fact, there are differences in the status form. If this were to be left to them to register, trade unions under another status form would be registered and as such would not be able to meet the conditions laid down in the Regulation. In a way, the agreement that has been agreed between us in the negotiations to open up this possibility to them if they meet other conditions. If this amendment had not been adopted today, it would have been more difficult or should have changed the rules themselves, which is not impossible, of course. However, this is clearly defined by the law, so I believe that there are no problems with the support of this amendment. It is a matter of meeting all the conditions relating to the technical conditions of the employment conditions, except as regards the registration itself, an exception is due to differences in the status organisation of trade unions vis-à-vis others who carry out this activity. I believe that this amendment can also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We've talked about this before, but actually this amendment is interesting. This amendment also opens the door to trade union activities in an area where they have not been present, i.e. in the field of labour market services. We are talking about a concession for labour market services and trade unions, obviously, will no longer be just a special association aimed at protecting workers' rights and representation and so on, but will also be a concessionaire for labour market services. I would like to know, Madam Minister, whether such practice is also in other countries and what has been exposed in these negotiations. What services would trade unions like in the labour market? Is it the implementation of an active employment policy, or is it specifically the ambition of trade unions to start as concessionaires in the labour market? That's one question. The second question is, because we know roughly what is the level of the laws and regulations, the law, the regulation and the regulation. And you say, instead of changing the rules, we're proposing a change of law. Usually, by law, regulations, which can only be done, and this does not change the law. But you've made a different choice. However, if I understand correctly, if we remove the need for registration from the Regulation, then this also applies to legal persons – or how? And it would be in conflict with the law when we're talking about legal persons, not trade unions. It is already my opinion that if you have decided to do so in law, it is only possible that this is a question of principle, whether to go into this expansion of activity and the impact of trade unions, because this can even become problematic. For I have seen an agreement signed by Minister Virant with trade unions concerning some truly tangible additional rights of union members to the visa of non-members of the union – I am talking about the public sector. Madam Secretary, I know exactly what you're trying to say. You're saying we opened the door to this. Yes, but we have given the opportunity to agree on this with the collective agreement, not to agree on it in fact and on what rights. At that time, it was thought that most of them were negotiating information rights and so on. It has not occurred to me that this will go through for the public sector. In this government, it's obviously been through. The problem is obviously that in some ways organisations that are grateful and competent to work in their area are extending themselves to open up to them in the labour market and more, and it gives the person the sense that they want to compensate for the withdrawal of people from trade unions also because of the acute economic situation, because we are talking about voluntary membership payments and so on. At the very least, it is worth considering and weighing these solutions in the context, as I have said.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, there is an eternal dilemma as to why some Members are trying to say some things as we think they are. The answers are found in John Ruskin's mind, which says the greatest prize for effort is not what you get for him, but what you become with him. I know nothing I'm going to say is going to be accepted, but I'm going to say it for that reason. Look, we're talking about the labour market. The previous novel has strongly administrativeized matters, bureaucraticized matters, and this only increases this. The labour market means that people work freely and pay from their work taxes. We prohibit the work of students, prohibit the work of pensioners and many other categories. In my opinion, the findings of the bill's proposer that these are less difficult amendments and amendments to the law do not hold, as these are essential changes to the law. I'll give you one concrete example. If we increase capital 4 times, this means that the business environment in which Slovenian companies operate again makes it difficult, bureaucratic or, in other words, uncompetitive. I've already talked about my meeting with the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and the Public Development Agency or something. Do you know what the Austrians did to attract Slovenian companies? The founding capital decreased from 35,000 euros to 10,000, overnight to increase the competitiveness of the Austrian business environment, ladies and gentlemen. And today, Slovenian labour market agencies and some other companies will set up 10,000 in Austria instead of paying 30,000 euros for activities, as is now prescribed, and will only have branches here, as the law stipulates. Once again, we made sure that the profits flow to Austria, and we made sure that Slovenian companies become Austrian companies and that they have branches here. We're doing great! Second thing. See, in the way that we reintroduce an independent auditor again, we introduce special expert commissions, we raise fines, because this is the tax hell that is now, we are only increasing it now. And the President of the Chamber of Commerce warned us nicely that we were in reverse, but he said a little differently that time was turning back. We are now speeding back and forcing Slovenian companies to go to Austria. Austria is the most competitive business environment in Europe in addition to Switzerland. It is necessary to read between the lines what the government has prepared. Interestingly, we took three European countries to compare: France, which is very far away, and we Slovenians know very little of it, of course we took Germany, which we know as much as we do, and we took Hungary. However, we did not take the two most competitive countries, our neighbours in Austria, and did not take Switzerland, which was the gauze of the European economy. That's not how I think it works. We may even have a good purpose, and on some excessions, we build changes to the law. Wrong. Following a regular procedure, we would accept what Minister Vizjak failed to accept and indeed reform the labour market and liberalise the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u230	Your Honor, I wouldn't mind getting an answer. I'm gonna go a little deeper now. Article 2 or the amendment now enables trade unions to provide services without registration but subject to the conditions laid down for the management of this activity. You apologize for the fact that trade unions cannot register because of their specific legal nature. Look, I don't know, respected colleagues, or in this room anyone knows what services they can now get a concession for. For services in the labour market. And what are these services? These services are a lifelong career orientation and job placement. Life-long career orientation is information about the labour market, career management, basic career counseling, in-depth career counseling, learning career management skills. And what is the job placement? Employment is carried out in order to harmonise the supply and demand of workers in the labour market in Slovenia and other EU countries. Forwarding the employment scope of the search activity to a suitable or appropriate job seeker, posting the job seeker to the employer and actively searching for a suitable or suitable employee for the employer. Again, I'm asking the Ministry what they want to do about it. Anything or maybe anything else? We are talking, once again, about the concession for the provision of services under Article 16 of this Law. Article 16 speaks of these two sets of services. When I coordinated with them at the time, they never said that they wanted to interfere. Employers have expressed their wish that they would be active labour policy providers as external contractors, and I don't actually see any problems here. However, if trade unions have also expressed that external contractors would be active employment policy, this is another issue. But here we are talking about labour market services that have only those two kinds. So I'm really curious about what the unions wanted. In all these services they do not refer to employees, perhaps only employees who are prior to losing their jobs and who are potentially job seekers or who are concerned about their lifelong career orientation. Otherwise, mostly unemployed people are referred to here. Does this mean that the union wants membership in this sphere, even when we are talking about the unemployed?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you. Minister Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u232	When we talk about Article 2, we don't just have to talk about unions, we're talking about social partners. Clearly, employers’ associations are also involved. So they have a chance to get a concession. When they receive a concession, however, it is always a public contract and then a choice is made according to the tenders made. This certainly does not mean that trade unions will automatically provide these services in the labour market and have the opportunity to apply. And I believe it is right that the unions and employers' organisations have the opportunity to offer a service. If they are competitive, and I hope that we will not only compete with the price, that we will also slowly change these things, that we will slowly put the content at the forefront, and that if trade unions or representatives of employers' organisations offer good content of these services, I see no problem. This proposal was therefore, in the original amendments to the labour market regulation law, the same as it was. The amendment before you today is only going in the direction of making it possible to do what we have agreed. Personally, I don't see any problems. If I can at any given time, I do not wish to offend some school providers that they can today provide certain services in the labour market, in order for trade unions and employers' organisations to do so. But it's not an automatic day. They will be awarded a concession, and of course then it is still necessary to choose this in public order in order to be able to do so. That's how I don't see any trouble here. The role of the social partners, when it comes to strengthening the social partners, I believe that I am doing this without a fig in my pocket, so I respect the social partners as partners in the conversation. Where they can contribute to a certain improvement in the labour market, and I believe that both employers' organisations and trade unions, who are always present, what is happening in businesses and in the general labour market, can also offer programmes that will be good for the unemployed if they meet these conditions and will also be competitive with the price and, above all, with content.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. And at the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law on how to pay off differences in wages due to the removal of a third of the imbalances in basic public servants' salaries under the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I can give the floor to the representative of the Government who is just coming into the Chamber. Dr. Gregor Virant has joined us and let's just wait a moment. You have the floor, Mr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! I'm sorry to come to the gym like this at the last minute. In fact, in the State Council, we were just discussing the draft veto on the law on the compensation scheme for deleted, and I literally finished my performance there half a minute ago, so that I could join you now. The law before you today is a solution, burying one of the skeletons that fell from our closet. In fact, according to the Supreme Court’s judgment, employers in the public sector have to pay the wage gap for the abolition of the third quarter of wage imbalances from October 2010 to June 2012. It is the implementation of a judicial decision, i.e. something the State is obliged to pay in any case. The original sin took place in November 2010, when the government concluded the contested annex to the collective agreement on the public sector, with which it postponed payment of the third quarter of the wage imbalances. This annex was concluded a month after the right to this so-called third quarter was created. At that time, the government took a great legal risk, as part of the profession warned that the annex should not be concluded retroactively. In fact, the annex was concluded in November, and on 1 October, the right was already in the west. Part of the unions filed an action; the Supreme Labour and Social Court ruled in favour of the unions. In March this year, we have submitted an audit as an exceptional legal remedy to determine whether the highest courts in the country were correct in this case and to clarify all legal dilemmas. In the end, the Supreme Court ruled in favour of the unions. So the state has to settle the debt. There's no doubt about it. And it must settle it with late interest, because it is a matter of respect for the rule of law and respect for the judiciary, respect for judicial decisions. Why do we need a marriage to do this? We need it because it is necessary to pay for all public servants, not just those represented by trade unions who have filed an action or not only for those against whom the Supreme Court so decided. This right belongs to everyone, so we must ensure equality, equality and payment in an orderly and transparent manner. The law provides for payment in a maximum of two instalments. I emphasize, most of all. First part no later than February 2014, second part no later than January 2015. So the point is, it's not until later. If possible, it will be paid earlier, as otherwise late interest is on the way, as some have also pointed out at the meeting of the parent’s working body. And that's true. Here you will have to find, if possible, the possibility of payment as soon as possible so that these late interest rates do not run. In one year, from February 2014 to January 2015, additional interest on late payments of 5.4 million, of which approximately half of this amount can be raised in the national budget, is said to be 2.7. So there's not much in the state budget, but there's not enough money. Here, in particular, the Minister of Finance will, in my view, intensively look for a way to find some reserves as soon as possible, to be scrapped and paid off. Of course within the current budget, within the current financial plans. We have a budget with an adequate deficit, which the European Commission has also assessed very positively, and here we need to be careful and careful that we stick to it. The payment is one-off, so it is not a structural increase in public expenditure, but a one-off payment of a back-up bill. The law is coordinated in social dialogue with the vast majority of trade unions in the public sector. If the payment were not settled, there would be 100,000 new lawsuits and executions, and all the years would have been delayed interest, the state should have settled all the costs of the proceedings. With regard to late interest, I have already said, of course, I am in favour of paying as soon as possible, but within the framework of the possibility of budgetary users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Jerk Čehovin, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister with the team! The Internal Policy Committee, the Public Administration and the Local Self-Government discussed at its three sessions the proposal for a law on how to pay the pay gap due to the removal of the third quarter of the imbalances in the basic salaries of public servants. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 72nd meeting that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representative of the State Council, representative of the Union of State Organs of Slovenia Franšek Verk and Drago Ščernjavič, representative of the Confederation of Public Sector Unions Branimir Štrukelj, representative of the Confederation of Trade Unions of Slovenia Pergam Dr. Janez Posedi, representative of the Union of Soldiers of Slovenia Guido Novak and representative of the Union of Police of Slovenia Zoran Petrovič. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical legal aspects. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the State Council Commission on State Regulations, which supported the proposal for a law. Amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4 and 6 were tabled within the time limit and a proposal was proposed for amendments to the amendment of the coalition groups to Articles 2 and 4, which were prepared on the basis of the opinion of the PSC and adopted by the Committee as its amendments. I will not report on the debate of the representative of the proposalr, because it is identical to what happened a few minutes ago. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the bill regulates the method of payment of remuneration differences due to the elimination of the third quarter of the imbalances in basic salaries for the period from 1 October 2010 to 31 May 2012. The basis for the proposed solution is a violation of Article 50 of the collective agreement with the public sector in a legally binding collective labour dispute before the Supreme Court and the decision that the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to recognise and pay a third quarter of the wage imbalances in basic salaries with statutory late earnings flowing from the maturity of the individual salary. The applicant has decided to treat all beneficiaries equally and thus to provide them with a solution which would provide them with payment, regardless of whether their rights have been recognised by a judicial decision and whether or not they are still in a working relationship at the time of payment. For reasons of public finances, it proposes to pay interest in 2014 and 2015. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission supported the proposal of the law for state regulation, with members of the Commission finding that some local communities, some 60 municipalities, and some institutions had already paid the difference and that the non-admission of the law would further increase the differences over the imbalances paid. Representatives of the Slovenian Armed Forces Union, the Slovenian National Authorities Union and the Slovenian Police Union said they were opposed to the adoption of such a bill as had been drafted by the Government and had warned that, with such a bill, both the executive and the legislative branches of the authorities were interfering with the judiciary, which is contrary to Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Police Union of Slovenia also pointed out that the proposal for a law interferes directly with the already acquired rights of public servants by a judicial decision. This is why the rights that have fallen on an individual level are at stake, so trade unions are no longer in a position to coordinate with this. However, the representative of the Slovenian Armed Forces Union pointed out that, if adopted, the draft law would be sent to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for review. He also briefed the members and members of the Committee on the letter sent by this union to the European Commission. In the debate, some members of the Committee considered that such a proposal would directly interfere with the constitutional provision on the division of power. A procedural proposal has also been proposed by the opposition to bring a constitutional complaint against the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court, which has not been adopted. Therefore, some members and members of the Committee wanted to invite the PSC to draw up an opinion on whether or not the State or on its behalf could file a constitutional complaint. With regard to this legal issue, the Minister pointed out that the Institute of Constitutional Complaints is an instrument for the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, protecting citizens and citizens from the state, and therefore the State cannot be the one making a constitutional complaint against itself. In the debate on Articles 3 and 4, some members of the Committee felt that the Ministry should pay the payment of the pay gap to public servants immediately, since otherwise there were still new costs due to late interest. With regard to the debate on Article 6 of the bill, the members and members of the committee discussed the substantive issue of the constitutional complaint, which was raised at the time of the draft decision of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, and therefore [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The representative stressed that such a proposed solution goes beyond the powers of the National Assembly as legislator and that it falls within the competence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the amendments to the amendment to Article 2 of the amendment to the amendment to Article 2. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of Article 6 of the SDS Group. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with co-workers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Last Friday, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of the Interior signed a declaration on the harmonisation of the law setting out the way in which debt is paid to civil servants for the elimination of wage imbalances. This is a proposal for a law setting out how to pay the pay gap due to the abolition of the third quarter of the imbalances for the period from 1 October 2010 to 31 May 2012, together with the late interest resulting from the Supreme Court judgment. Payment shall be fixed in a maximum of two instalments, the first shall be paid by the end of February 2014 at the latest and the second by the end of January 2015. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the bill. Nevertheless, we would like to express a few concerns. We wonder why it had to come to a lawsuit and a verdict to return to public servants for which they were unlawfully deprived. Will the former Minister, who in his decisions has caused an illegal situation that will facilitate the state budget for some more than €120 million, bring criminal or other appropriate consequences? Will the then president of the government possibly be responsible for this? In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we doubt this. The next thought arises from the Minister's words that the provisions of this law will be implemented justly, in the same way and in a transparent way. For we have informal information that some public institutions and municipal administrations have soon paid their employees a difference in one piece and without waiting for the law after the judgment has been issued. According to our assessment, this is not even an approximation of equality and justice, so we ask the Minister whether and how he will act in this regard. Such an act, in the opinion of the DeSUS Group, is not treated equally by public servants who are ultimately all paid out of the same smallness. Similar stories we witnessed last year, when part of the public sector, I expose education and municipalities, paid in advance the annual holiday regress before the government took austerity measures and limited the amount of the regression. Of course, those who had already paid the regression had no need to pay it back. This is also not an equal treatment, according to our assessment. At the time of the signing of the already mentioned declaration on the harmonisation of the law, the Minister expressed satisfaction that they had aligned themselves with the vast majority of unions. At the same time, he said that, despite the fact that the Supreme Court’s judgment on the obligation to pay relates only to part of public servants, it is quite clear that this right belongs to everyone. In the DeSUS Group, we would like to express our criticism at the expense of those who brought the action for payment of the difference, not because they brought the action, but because it was our assessment that the only right way was to prove that decisions were taken to freeze the removal of the third and fourth quarters of the imbalance. We are disturbed by the fact that they wanted to achieve the right only for their members, which is only 20% of public sector employees and their direct employer is the Republic of Slovenia. As an example, public sector unions have sought to achieve a regression payment, regardless of who their direct employer is. We must not forget, however, that the consent of the law has been denied by several unions, such as the Slovenian Union of State Authorities, the Union of the Ministry of Defence, the Trade Firefighters Union, the Police Union, the Union of Municipal Directors, the GLOSA Culture Union, the Union of Soldiers and the Union of Cultural Creators of RTV Slovenia, and the Police Union, which is also involved in the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the assessment of the representatives of these unions that this also shows the general dissatisfaction of officials, uniformed professions and two groups of cultural creators, since all joint denominators have in reducing the staffing plans and resources intended to provide a material basis for the optimal work of the bodies and institutions where they operate. Finally, when we reiterate our support for the proposed law in the DeSUS Group, let us express our expectations that individual budget users will fulfil their obligations as soon as possible and thus avoid paying late interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-workers! In time and by emergency procedure, the Government has introduced a law in the parliamentary procedure regulating the way in which payments are paid for the removal of the third quarter of the salary imbalances for public servants. On the parental committee, we also discussed whether the Government had taken full advantage of all legal options for a proper verdict on the payment of the third quarter of wage imbalances. We have also listened to representatives of trade unions whose opinions on this law have been shared, which I have also pointed out as a member of the committee at the meeting. The representatives of several trade unions oppose this law. The Christian Democrats of New Slovenia strongly oppose the adoption of laws in such haste. We, too, are convinced that the adoption of this special law is absolutely unnecessary, as it relates only to the enforcement of a judicial judgment. Why, then, does this logic prevent the National Assembly from adopting adequate laws for all executions of judicial judgments? The present law introduces further confusion into our legal system, as some public servants have already proposed enforcement procedures on the basis of the judgments received, which are therefore ongoing. However, some enforcement procedures have even been completed and, according to the judgment, payments have already been received by the beneficiaries to their personal accounts. The law also opens up a number of other dilemmas, as the unions have also been warned. This is a question of calculating refunds, recalculating pension bases for the period from 1. Ten. 2010 to 31. 5. 2012 and so forth. The fact is that the State of the Republic of Slovenia is obliged, following the judgement of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana, to fulfil its obligations to public servants on the basis of payment of the third quarter of the salary imbalances, with legal late interest. It is therefore in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to fulfil this obligation as soon as possible. Mr Virant explained in his responses to his mother's working body that the State would seek to pay before the deadlines mentioned in the law itself. This means one part in January 2014 and the other part in January 2015, but according to the available liquidity situation in the budget. He also explained that the financial resources for the payment of this obligation would be provided by redistribution. Let's say we don't object to these budget transfers, and we don't issue it, but recently, in fact, a few days ago, the government secretly committed EUR 1.5 billion to the Republic of Slovenia on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. And this assignment was, by the way, very, very expensive. The mandate is intended to finance the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, so Dr. Chufer, President of the Government of Alenka Bratušek, is different. The issue of liquidity or the financing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore not a problem and there are therefore no liquidity reasons for delaying the payment of liabilities. Therefore, the State must fulfil this obligation without delay. In this way, the government will avoid unnecessary additional expenditure to pay legal late interest. If that's not the case, then the Council of Ministers should pay the late interest on their own wallets. In general, let me explain that the obligation under this law means expenditure totalling EUR 103.6 million for the state budget. Further definition up to the content which is subject to the regulation of this bill. Christian Democrats of New Slovenia are convinced that judicial judgments must be respected, whether we agree with them or not. Prejudice obligations must be met within the statutory time limits, as they arise in the state budget in addition to the costs of late interest, which are not yet necessary in relation to enforcement procedures. We agree that, in terms of the principle of equality, the payment of the third quarter of the salary imbalances shall be made for all public servants, whether or not the public servant is a member of one of the unions and whether or not the action has already been brought. However, the payment should be made by the Government in the same manner and on the same basis as the compensation paid to public servants for the previous year. So a new law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 and not on the basis of a specific law. It follows from all this that Members of the New Slovenia Group do not support the proposal of the law on how to pay the pay gap due to the removal of the third quarter of the imbalances in the basic salaries of public servants.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you. Mr Jerko Čehovin will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this law is not a consequence of the functioning of the government of Alenka Bratušek. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the annex 4h of the Public Sector Collective Contract, which stipulated that the third quarter of the wage imbalances in the basic salaries of public servants would begin to be paid within two consecutive years following the year when GDP growth would exceed 2.5 % and entered into force on 9 November 2010 unlawfully and, contrary to the Constitution, regulated the right to up to three quarters of the imbalances in return, since the right to payment to public servants was already valid as of 1 October 2010 on the basis of annex No 2. In Positive Slovenia, we take the view that the Court's decision must be respected unconditionally, but that Slovenia is currently in such a situation when immediate payment in a single amount of more than 175 million euros is possible in only two ways. Either by providing these funds on the revenue side, i.e. by increasing or introducing any additional tax, or by providing such funds by reducing funds on the expenditure side, i.e. by reducing the salaries of public servants, reducing pensions or by interfering with social transfers, i.e. monetary social assistance and a security allowance. The immediate implementation of the judgment would inevitably result in the urgent adoption of additional austerity measures, which we do not agree to in Positive Slovenia. We are therefore pleased that the current situation is aware of both the negotiating group of representative public sector unions that have signed a declaration of degree of coordination and that the proposal for a law is in line with 26 of the 36 trade unions. The draft law thus provides that payment of the pay gap for the elimination of disproportionates shall be made in a maximum of two instalments, in such a way that the first instalment, together with the late payments, is paid in February 2014 and the second instalment at the latest in January 2015. The law therefore provides for a means of payment for all civil servants, irrespective of the fact that the court has issued a judgment in a specific collective dispute to which this difference has not yet been paid and ensures equal treatment of all those entitled to payment, ensures a transparent and uniform manner of payment, prevents additional costs of judicial proceedings in individual and collective labour disputes arising and prevents a negative impact on judicial backlogs. What is most important to us is that it maintains sustainable public finances without the need for further intervention in the salaries of public servants, pensions or social transfers on the one hand, and without any additional burden on citizens and citizens on the other. As a result, both the cash budgets and the local cash registers will find their reserves. The proposal for a law on how to pay the pay gap due to the removal of the third quarter of the imbalances in the basic salaries of public servants will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you, too. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u244	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with Colleagues, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on how to pay the pay gap due to the removal of the third quarter of the imbalances in the basic salaries of public servants by proposing that the law be dealt with in accordance with the urgent procedure. In its assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the bill, the bill pointed out that the immediate realization of the payment would mean an additional increase in expenditure of more than €175 million, the amount being the principal, which would mean an increase in the budget deficit in the estimated amount of revenue and expenditure, and the realisation of budgetary resources to such a large extent and thus an increase in expenditure would result in an additional country debt. Members and Members of the SDS Group have already addressed to Minister Virant at the first meeting of the Committee whether he has made use of all regular and extraordinary legal remedies or whether there is still an open deadline for bringing a constitutional complaint to the Supreme Court of RS and against the Supreme Court of Justice. Since the Minister confirmed our presumption that the deadline was still open, we have proposed that the Ministry of the Interior should prepare guidelines for the State Defence to submit a constitutional complaint to the Supreme Court's judgment with a proposal to suspend the enforcement of judgments as soon as possible, because in the present case it is the public interest of all taxpayers and because, in the opinion of our Group, there is reasonable doubt as to the constitutionality of the decision of the Supreme Court of RS as a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court of 15. 3. 2012 and there is an urgent need to safeguard public interest and make use of all the remedies available to the State. In 1999, the Constitutional Court ruled that public law, i.e. the State, municipalities, public institutions, has the right to protect their legal status in proceedings before the courts. We believe that Minister Virant should take advantage of the legal remedy for a constitutional complaint, since the proposed law now interferes with the constitutional right to the protection of private property and the social state – namely, to protect the rights of taxpayers and to protect public interest. Following this opinion, we tabled an amendment to Article 6 of the draft law, which did not receive adequate support from the home labour body. In the SDS Group, we believe that the proposed legal solution, which provides for the payment of the pay gap due to the elimination of the third quarter of the imbalances in the basic salaries of public servants in two instalments, is detrimental to the country, as the gross financial consequences of the law amount to around EUR 200 million, EUR 120 million and 61 million each meal, and, in our opinion, it is unacceptable, additionally burdens the country's budget with late interest of around EUR 10 million. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we subsequently proposed an amendment to Article 3 of the Act to pay the difference in wages due to the removal of the third quarter of the disproportionates in basic salaries in a single amount, no later than the end of February 2014, together with the corresponding statutory late payments, which run from the first day following the day fixed for the payment of the individual salary for the period from 1 October 2010 to 31 May 2012 until the date of payment. Dear Members and Members! I hope that you will support the proposal by the SDS Group's amendment to Article 3 of the bill and thus contribute to the reduction of the costs of legal late interest, which, at this moment, amount to 8.5 per cent or an additional EUR 10 million required to meet these obligations. In comparison, this is the amount earmarked by the State for the operation of voluntary components of the protection and rescue system until the adoption of the 2014 budget and the 2015 budget. If the amendment receives support, we will not oppose the law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you. Magistrate Majda Potrat will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In the opinion of the SD Group, I will try to shake off and deny myself personal responsibility for everything that has happened, because at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government, there were those on whose behalf the charges have flown a great deal. There has been a talk here about what legal remedies will be used against whom, and in very contradictory situations, so allow me to find out, on a number of occasions, that the proposal for a law on how to pay the pay gap for the elimination of the third quarter of the imbalances in the basic salaries of public servants, that the proposed law is an attempt to solve the problem that occurred in 2010. For this 2010 experiment, however, it should be said that this was a response to the requirements of savings and requirements even after wages did not increase, the elimination of wage imbalances and all that we were monitoring at that time. What we should be aware of and learn from this past practice, because this is not the only case, is that laws need to be carefully weighed, their effects determined and never adopted by law, and in this case also propose a law that is not guaranteed to avoid the judgment of the Constitutional Court. But the fact is that we are now before the adoption of a law, which, at least as it turns out on the committee, some wanted to ensure that the bill was sent or linked to a constitutional complaint, since it was clear that all the regular and extraordinary remedies had not been used. Although the Supreme Court is the highest judicial authority and its judgment must be respected, we are, in fact, entrenched in saying, on the one hand, that injustices must be corrected, that errors must be settled, and on the other hand, we demand that the story go forward in such a way that it is possible to correct the error after all the constitutional complaint has been made. Therefore, in the SD Group, we see the continuation of this contradictory situation also in the amendment tabled to Article 3, which refers to the single payment of the pay gap due to the elimination of the third quarter of the imbalances in the basic salaries of public servants. That's not the only contradiction. At the committee meeting, we also faced different positions of unions. The unions also explained their own dynamics. There was a lot of talk about representation, about what a quorum is, how it was defined. However, for the Social Democrats, it is undeniable that there has been a duality, which we have seen in the fact that for the 31 000 civil servants, the Supreme Court has already decided that their actions are enforceable and, on the other hand, that the majority of public officials who have not yet filed complaints remain and that we are solving their situation only with this law. Surely no one can be satisfied that I do not say anything else because of what we have to do in this session. However, we cannot say that it is irresponsible for a person to seek legal redress or remedy the consequences of an unacceptable decision that the Supreme Court has found to be illegal. We will support the proposal of the law by the Social Democrats, aware that this is also an opportunity to build confidence between the social partners, provided that this means of payment is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to the Minister with his fellow Members and all the Members present! The Supreme Court confirmed the Supreme Court’s judgment and ruled that the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to pay public servants the difference under the third quarter of the abolition of wage imbalances. All regular and extraordinary legal remedies were also exhausted. And since Slovenia is a rule of law, we must respect the judgments of the courts, both European and our own. But it is a fact, and in this place it is right to point out that there was no. 4 h of collective agreement concluded in 2010 on the delay in payment of the third quarter of the wage imbalances, incorporated a high risk that was then accepted by Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs. As our minister says, it was legal acrobatics, but it didn't go well. At least as far as the state budget is concerned. The purpose of this law, which is before us today, is to follow the Supreme Court's rulings and to determine how to pay the pay gap due to the abolition of the third quarter of the disproportionates for the period from 1 October 2010 to 31 May 2012, to all public servants whose difference has not yet been paid. The purpose of the law is thus to ensure equal treatment of all public servants who are entitled to it, irrespective of whether their rights have been recognised by a judicial decision and whether they are still in the public sector at the time of payment. The judgment, as we know, has been tabled by trade unions representing public officials in the state administration. The law seeks to prevent additional costs of judicial proceedings in individual and collective labour disputes and also to prevent negative effects on judicial backlogs. In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we hope, above all, that we will learn from this error three years ago, that we will learn from this a lesson for the future and, above all, a warning applies to all those who, on behalf of the State, conclude contracts, agreements or agreements that must avoid legal risks. There are 36 unions representing almost 150,000 civil servants in our country, and we also call for national competitiveness, tolerance and cooperation, which will be important if we want to get out of the crisis and, above all, it is true that both the State and the employers and trade unions work together as workers' representatives and not against each other. In this way, the Members of the National Gazette will support this law and hope that the skeletons will be removed slowly after the cabinets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! What else can be said about the proposed law to correct certain past sins in the field of public sector wages? In this regard, of course, I am referring to the retention of payment of the third quarter of wage imbalances to public sector employees with annex No 4h to the 2010 collective agreement, thereby violating article 50 of the public sector collective agreement, which was finally confirmed by the Supreme Court judgment in which the Court rejected the request for review of the procedure. The judgment, which came at the least in an inappropriate time, a judgment whose enormous financial consequences are not foreseen at all in the budgets just adopted for the next two years, a judgment which will continue to give us a headache, but Slovenia is a rule of law, at least in Article 2 of our Constitution, which also means an obligation to respect all legal acts, abstract and concrete, irrespective of which of the three branches of government issues them. In a specific case, respect for the rule of law means payment of a third quarter of the salary imbalances for the period from 1 October 2010 to 31 May 2012 with legal late payments to all civil servants, i.e. EUR 175 million of additional unforeseeable public expenditure. The proposed law systematically regulates the way in which that pay gap is paid, namely that payment is to be made in a maximum of two instalments. The first meal is due by the end of February 2014 and the second meal by the end of January 2015. The law is also intended to result in the cessation of individual labour disputes before a higher working and social court, which has already been submitted enormously. It's all good and it's all good. The legal judgments of the courts must be respected, and let us continue to think of them as criminal and dishonest. We therefore respect the judgment, which has terrible consequences for public funds, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. There's no doubt about that. However, we would like to point out that, in respect of such legal acts, there must also be reality in front of the eyes. And this one, as most of us do, is cruel. Why do I speak most of us? As some in this regard, I have in mind, above all, the representatives of the public sector unions and some of the authorities, apparently still live or live in a parallel world, not taking into account the worrying growth of public debt by borrowing the country under unsustainable conditions, the increase in the budget deficit and the failing economy, which is in fact the one that is financed by the public sector. The public sector economy is financed. Some apparently continue to believe that money is growing in ATMs and are not interested in data on the decline of about 70,000 jobs in the economy. The same economy, which is further burdened by taxes and which is financed by an ever-increasing public sector. All that matters to these individuals is that they get their own, but who will pay for this drink does not care. So there's no mistake. The errors arising from the illegal agreements of the past need to be rectified. There's no doubt about that. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would expect all those involved in the agreement on the resolution of a particular problem to be aware of the seriousness of the situation in which the state and thus all its nationals and citizens are located and, as a result, to agree on such arrangements as users, i.e. public servants might not be most impressed in the short term, but such an agreement would have a more favourable impact on public finances and would still be paid in the future. In this way, the proposed law makes virtually every additional property tax revenue that will hit all citizens and citizens, entrepreneurship and agriculture hard in the coming year, translate into payments to public servants. The proposed law alone provides the basis for the budget rebalancing for the coming year. We do not intend to oppose the law and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! The fact is that Slovenia is not a legal country, because if we were a legal state, we would have implemented the Constitutional Court's decision immediately. I have thought thoroughly about the issue that we are discussing today, which we are reminded of indignant employees in the public sector. I understand that the situation is largely due to the adopted law on the public sector wage system. However, the fact that the current minister was the author and the proposer of this law has the effect that he has burdened the country with his controversial actions. Yes, Minister Virant, you have proposed a law on the system of public sector wages, which has resulted in this – no, of course, St. Peter – if I am not mistaken, but perhaps I am wrong, you will correct me, this law was passed at the end of 2008 when Janša's government ended. It is also unacceptable to treat employees in the public sector who have received an action and rightly expect it, so they are also investing in executions so that their wage imbalances will be paid immediately. That is why I, as a Member, expect matters to be settled immediately if we are a rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you. Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He explained something only on what has been raised so far in the debate. First time. Some of you have warned, I think Mr Hršak, that some congregations have already paid off. That is true, and this certainly is not good for the equality of public servants. However, it is also true that no one could legally prevent them from doing so, for the judgment, once decided by a higher court, became legal, enforceable, and each congregation had the right to do so. At national level, however, we went to the Supreme Court's audit judgment and waited for this exceptional remedy to be completed. When we saw the position of the Supreme Court, we took action to make this payment. There's been a lot of talk today about numbers. Let me make it very clear that the net effect of this payment will be around €120 million in total public finances. Gross is around 200, but returns on payment, returns on income and returns on health contributions and contributions to pension insurance, so that in the end the net effect is around 120, of which half for the state budget, is slightly less than 60 for the state budget. If we divide this into two payments, it's just a little less than 30 million. You yourself have noticed, those who were at the debate on the parent's working body, that there are somehow two groups of unions that have little different interests. One is those who have received justice, and the other is those who have not been in righteousness. Of course, justice applies to everyone. It's the same for everything. As a proposaler of the law, it did not seem fair to us that, in any way, those who took part in the proceedings would have the advantage of paying everyone else. And we have also made this very clear that it will not be paid forward to those directly subject to the Supreme Court’s judgment, but it will be paid out to all in equal dynamics, except to those to whom the congregations have already paid off. It couldn't be prevented. The legal possibility of a constitutional complaint was mentioned. Let me tell you again. By filing an extraordinary legal remedy, we have already decided on a non-standard remedy. For when the higher court decides, the judgment becomes binding and enforceable. But just to check at the highest court, if this is really something the state has to pay for, we went to the Supreme Court and got confirmation of it there. The constitutional complaint seemed to us to be an inappropriate instrument. The constitutional complaint is intended to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, the right constitution. And here's the country that was in conflict with its public servants. It would be inappropriate or even impossible for the State to file a constitutional complaint to protect its human rights and fundamental freedoms against its public servants. It's not working. Even if we somehow theoretically constructed that such a possibility exists, the possibility of success would be extremely small. With this delay, and with further delay, we would produce again a lot of revolutions in the public sector, a lot of people would have made a new decision about lawsuits and executions, and all of this would have rolled like snowballs. It was only necessary to stop and finally pay for what all the courts had confirmed that payment had to be made. Why marriage is even necessary, I've already told you. Actually, there are two reasons. For the first time in order to ensure payment under the same criteria to all and also because this will have some demonstration effect. Now everyone will know that this will be paid, and they will not go into new lawsuits and new executions. The author of the law on the public sector wage system and the minister proposed by the Government was Dr. Rado Bohinc. He was then the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Janez Drnovšek. The law was adopted in 2002, so this is probably the mistake of colleague Vogrina. What is the effect of the so-called wage reform in the public sector, but I can explain once with a very clear chart, with very clear graphs showing how since the implementation of the Public Sector Wages Act, this country has managed the level of public sector wages. He's not here before.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! It has been said so clearly that Positive Slovenia supports the proposal for a law that will correct the error made in a previous government. This mistake is not a mistake of this government, not of Minister Virant, not of President Bratuška, but it was done before. Was it intentional or unintentional, or was it some legal risk that did not go so far as to make it right today? It's the right thing to do. It is right to respect the Supreme Court's ruling, as well as the Supreme Court, which ruled that this is a mistake that needs to be corrected, thus paying a disproportionate amount of the third quarter of the salary to public sector workers. Now there is a debate on the amendment to Article 3 tabled by the SDS party. We had a short discussion on the amendment to Article 6 on the Committee. This amendment required or proposed that the State Defence Office draw up a constitutional assessment of the Supreme Court’s decision. This move would somehow distance us, prolong the execution of the Supreme Court ruling, and thus continue to insist that this error is not corrected or that these injustices are not abolished for workers in the public sector. That was unacceptable to us. At the same time, Positive Slovenia voted against this amendment. Today is the amendment to Article 3. And this amendment is actually a little diametric with that one. In this amendment, however, the SDS proposes that we go immediately to pay for this. That's a little contradictory. In fact, we were aware that this is a great value, that it costs 175 million and 200 million to correct this error, that it is a huge contribution to the budget. Finally, we did not fully anticipate this in the 2014 budget, so in Positive Slovenia we welcome the agreement that was concluded between the unions, namely the social partners and the government in this regard, that payments are made in two instalments, February 2014 and February 2015. This in some ways relieves the budget, relieves the heavy burden and is certainly more sustainable and more appropriate. Therefore, the positive Slovenia will not vote today in favour of this amendment, which is proposed by the SDS. We will support the basic option, which is in the law itself, and we have already supported those amendments that have been tabled on the basis of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service and are eliminating some minor anomalies. I find it really a little contradictory or contradictory to Article 6 or today to Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Andrei Vissiak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I am very pleased to be able to respond in some way to Mr Zanoškar. The mistake of a former government. Which one, Mr. Zanoskar? Pahor's government. Who was in this Pahor government? Which minister signed this? Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Who supported that government? You, Mr. Zanoskar, have been a member of the coalition. That government was composed of Social Democrats, made up of the party DeSUS, which you were then a member of, many of your members of Positive Slovenia, who crossed over for such and other reasons from the then coalition into the current Positive Slovenia, that is Mrs Brunskole, and which, since I have written down, Mrs Melita Župevc, you, Mr Zanoškar, and so on. What kind of previous government? You are the supporters of these solutions, and now we have a problem. I agree with the minister. The mistake needs to be corrected. That's not a dilemma. There's no question that we don't have any money. The mistake needs to be fixed, and we don't have the money. A healthy farmer's mind, a respected minister, says that if we don't have the money in one year or we don't have it this year, or we won't have it in two years, because we're through the deficit, it's better that we fix this mistake as cheaply as possible. It is a one-off cost, which is also, according to some guidelines, when we talk about deficits and coordination and closing the surplus deficit, it is better to do so as soon as possible and as cheaply as possible. That's the logic. This does not mean that we will not have a structural deficit or any long-term deficit; it needs to be rectified. And if we can be indebted for 4.85% or so of three years, why not spend money on it now, at a lower interest rate, than pay someone in a year and a few months' late interest 8.5%. It's some rationality logic that every farmer can calculate, everyone, I don't know, we won't hurt anybody here, I think everyone can calculate it, who cares about their money for their own things. And I warn you that the amendment is going this way – in a direction to do it now. Mrs Bratušek, the Prime Minister, says that we have enough money, too, the minister, on the lager, which is in the bank of the bonds sold, is dedicated to a shrine, this is the rehabilitation of the banking system, and I think it can also be directed at such matters, because we will do it cheaper than if we drag another year. I don't know at all, and explain this to me, Mr. Secretary, where there is a negotiating achievement here, that you put this on two meals, so that the second meal will be more expensive, I mean, significantly more costing us. The second would be that in 2015, when this second meal falls, Slovenia will flourish and we will have surpluses and we will pay it easily. In 2015 we will have the same or even bigger problem that we have now. And so let's do this as soon as possible, and this is where this amendment goes. And one more thing. These three-year bonds, which we have bought dearly, but still almost half as cheap as late interest, are already on the market at 3.01%, which means that the expected return has fallen, which means that this money is even cheaper for Slovenia. And it would be logical for this error to be corrected as rationally as possible with less costs for the state budget, because, I say, we don't have money today, we won't have it in one year and we won't have it in two years. And I, if it were up to me, if it were up to me, if it wasn't up to me, would be very happy to negotiate for 10 years, if it were up to me in 10 meals or 10 years later, it would pay me with a late wage. This is the best investment possible – to have an interest rate of 8.5% at 10 years! Perfect! They would be given such a proposal, and I would be very surprised because I also do not believe that the public sector lives hand in hand, and there is probably a lot of people who would agree to it. But 10 years from now, I hope it might be easier to pay. This would be a bargaining achievement that would be a challenge. But now that we have postponed for one year, we all know that we will have the same fiscal problem as today or that there will be no money, it is, well, that is why this amendment seems to me to be more than just justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u259	Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u260	Look, some particular bargaining achievement is not because there was no chance of winning here either. There couldn't have been a winner or a loser. This is a skeleton, as I often say, which fell out of our closet, another of many, a judgment of the Supreme Court, which must be realized. And there was not much to negotiate here. And as someone who was in the government as a minister, you know what a budget is and what financial plans are. Once your budget and financial plans are in place, you have to walk inside. Of course, I very much agree with you that it is wise and rational to pay it back as soon as possible. Hence, our marriage also says that the first meal and the second meal will be paid no later than then. However, believe that the Minister of Finance can also count and that this difference in late interest, if possible, will try to neutralize, eliminate, so that we will pay as soon as possible. If you asked me if the rest of the money was in the budget on payroll this year, I'd pay it right away. But you know better than to stick to the budget. And you know that it doesn't matter what kind of budget the state of Slovenia has adopted for the next year, because we are under the scrutiny of the European Commission and we are finally in a long, long time again in at least one of the best countries when it comes to evaluating the budget. I'm not going to brag about this negotiation achievement because it was an excruciating negotiation, because, in fact, the unions knew exactly that they had won, that they had won in court and that there was nothing here. But it's not as easy as you say they could be dealt with for a long time. That was my first suggestion. I first tried to divide them into longer periods, and they were very bitter. But people want this exhausted money as soon as possible. So, basically, we agree to pay as soon as possible, and that's what the law says. The negotiating achievement was what we achieved in May, but we will discuss this in another agenda item at one of the next meetings. I think it's very good. Some of you have pointed out today that we can learn something from this story. Look, a lot of lessons could be drawn from past mistakes made by different governments. I don't want to point at anyone with a finger. But many governments have concluded awkward, legally uncertain agreements, passed such laws, and in the end this always ends in the same way: we pay late interest. Believe me, whatever I do, especially in the area of wages, I am most careful that things will be legally clean, that we will not get these boomerangs back in our heads, because experience is very bad. And here we wanted to go to a completely safe side. But the safe side is to execute judgment and for all that time he has passed, to pay late interest as well. Yes, public servants have been very well invested in this money since October 2010, because since then you do not want them to run late interest because someone has concluded some very risky business with them or a collective agreement, which the court later confirmed was the case. Before I was able to complete this story of the so-called wage reform, which was fortunate, I would be proud to be the author of the law, because it had actually established quite a lot of order in the public sector, in fact the ideal fathers of this marriage were Drnovšek, as President of the Government and Dr Bohinc, as Minister of Home Affairs. However, wage reform in the public sector has resulted in the fact that we have been actually managing the level of public sector wages since 2002. If I am purely specific, from 2003 to 2012, the cumulative real wage growth in the private sector, the economy of 21.6%, in the public sector was 3.5%. Public sector wages are now somewhere on a level or even realistically below the level of 2003, while the economy has grown by 20%. It's information that's rarely mentioned, but I don't think it matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has previously applied to the replica. It's probably mag. A visionary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u262	Yes, to a colleague of Visions. Here we go, Comrade Visjak, let's make a deal. The sins and mistakes of your government will come on our bench. Those governments when you were a minister in the government, but I promise you I won't tell you this, because I know that this mistake that was made when I was on this side where the government was, wasn't made on purpose, and it was an attempt to make some legal act that didn't pass judgment and ended up the way it was. However, I wish that there would be as few sins as possible and as few mistakes as possible that would cost more than this error would cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you. The replica has a mag. A vision for the Minister's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u264	Look, just this brief intervention, because I was obviously misunderstood. I would understand that there are two instalments of this error or this third quarter of the pay gap due to the fact that we already have money for one meal in the budget and should not afford more than that. But in the 2014 budget, we don't have a cent to pay for this judgment or this third quarter. Not a cent. I strongly doubt that we will be able to find these reserves within existing financial plans to pay, because we have always run out of money for our salaries, and it will probably be next year. That's why the problem is that this money is not in the budget. At least this was how everyone who presented the budget documents for 2014 and 2015. So I think it's rational that if there's nothing else, it's better that we give, because we have to give everything, it's cheaper for us to come, than to split it into two meals. That is why we are proposing such an amendment. But to Mr. Zanoskar, because he referred to the former governments, not me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u265	Thank you. There is a minister, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u266	Thank you. I still think we agree very much. It is true that this is not foreseen in the budget for the next year within the framework of the salary scale. I also made that clear to the unions. We have prepared the 2014 budget on the basis of an agreement on salary reduction and on the other measures of May this year, which means that this money, as it is said, will have to be cracked up and provided with transfers or with some other austerity measures within the payroll account, payment items. You know very well that the budget is never planned, that they are always during the year of redeployment, so ZIPRO always assumes this, and that is why even at the end of the year it is always taken little where it stays, and slightly transferred where it runs out. It's always been that way, and it's something completely normal. If we manage to secure in the state budget all 60 million, as much as we have to pay for it, it is clear that we will do so. But if that's not the case, then we'll go after the meals. I'd really like to warn you again. The law says, no later than then, so people know that they have a guarantee and that they will not go into new lawsuits and executions because they want this stampede that started to stop. If it works out, we'll pay you sooner. But it's not true that he's always running out of wages. This year, some budget users are doing well because we had a good negotiation in May. Yeah, if it wasn't for these negotiations in May, we'd be peeing thin. We couldn't pay back December's wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u267	Thank you. The word is Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u268	First of all, I must say I understand Mr. Visian's logic. And if I trust Mr Visiak anywhere, it's an investment policy. If he's buying Telekom Slovenije's shares, I'd say we all do. That logic has its own meaning. However, I think it would be good for this national assembly to expect from the government, and so did the minister, who said that he was trying to do so in the cheapest possible way. I therefore think that, in terms of the government, its obligations and the situation of Slovenia on the market, it is more favourable to maintain the solution, as proposed by the original proposal of the law. So much for that. As for the old bones and skeletons that are apparently found in the cabinets, there is a very verifiable method of determining the age of carbon in the bones, which can determine the age of very, very old, thousands of old organisms. It would be interesting to use the carbon method in this case as well. And in this case, we would find that in that government, when Minister Rado Bohinc was involved in this marriage, Dr. Drnovšek, Dr. Gregor Virant was Secretary of State. Another time. It would be good to know that today you are all accusing Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of the Pahorje government of Zares, who is not here today and cannot defend that in fact the efforts of the Pahorje government in 2009 and 2010 were aimed at stopping the fiscal unwanted students of salary reform. Not the Public Sector Wages System Act, but the pay reforms and collective agreements signed by the Secretary of State, but, without offense, by the Minister, Dr Gregor Virant. And in this respect, I expect that you yourself, Mr Minister, at the opening presentation of this law in this Chamber, mentioned the skeletons and this skeleton by a probably non-carbon method very precisely identified under the responsibility of Irma Pavlinič Krebs, that you are so correct and here you also acknowledge some of your responsibility for the fact that we have come to where we are in pay relations and in eliminating salary imbalances. I'm not accusing you of this, and I also admit to you the sincere effort and also the achievement that you negotiated at the time and today, and I believe that this is not easy. However, I would like to make it very clear that this is a long beard, that even with this pay scale, which was then achieved, he would not boast. I think with some fiscal results, I'll say extremely damaging consequences. Let me just mention that the change in Janša's first mandate was estimated at EUR 300 million, and it turned out to be EUR 600 million, one more time. This was also one of the reasons why today you have the opportunity to attack Pahor's government because of the extreme growth of the country's indebtedness. This debt was also necessary, and we can almost exactly say in half that the commitments undertaken by the State at the time were realised. Even when Dr. Gregor Virant was Minister of Public Administration. That's the subject, my dears. You keep talking about responsibility, you keep looking for culprits, I didn't start it, this time you don't, and you need to light things up in a longer time frame. Because this problem was not created in 2010. This problem has a longer beard, but it is true that in those years he tried in a reasonable way and, as much as possible, in agreement with the social partners, to mitigate the fiscal consequences. I think it would be right for you to know history and its proper political qualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u269	Thank you. Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u270	These things need to be discussed as precisely as possible. I wouldn't be returning to this history today if I wasn't exactly challenged, because these things are pretty complex and complicated and they're really for acquaintances. But I think that the Members are listening to criticisms or some flat-rate statements and comments about the so-called salary reform, and I don't think I've ever really had the opportunity to explain it. And now I'm not teaching for half an hour so you don't get scared. I can explain that in two minutes. Look, the pay reform actually started in 2002 with the above-mentioned law. And in fact, these two ideal fathers were the ones I mentioned earlier. Indeed, I was then Secretary of State, I had no part in this law, and even if I did, I would not be ashamed of it, but I would be proud because this pay reform, this law has essentially brought order into a system of public sector wages that was not before. It brought unity, brought transparency, brought order and brought about the start of negotiations, which were concluded in 2008. It is very confusing to believe that in 2008 a government gave public servants a raise in wages to the public sector. You need to know that wages in the public sector from 2003 to 2007, when the negotiations lasted or until 2008, when the negotiations lasted, have practically stopped and that the whole public sector has waited and received the promise that because the wages will stop, that money that is accumulated on this basis will be directed towards eliminating the so-called wage imbalances, it is said that higher wages will be paid to those who are undervalued. However, it is known who have been underestimated, from nurses, employees in culture and in some other areas. In 2008, with the signing of the collective agreement and the anticipated increase in wages, it was no one's gift, but it was the fact that, on the basis of the long-standing freezing of wages, these things were settled, between 2003 and 2007, wages in the economy grew by 14% real and in the public sector by 2.2%. And the people were waiting. Then came collective agreements, and the irony of fate wanted – this is the irony of the public sector, that just when the public sector got what belonged to it, the economic crisis struck. In June, collective agreements were signed, there was not yet a hero among our macro-economicists, who in any way predicted that we would have trouble paying this in the coming years, there was no one. That's when they warned, watch out, the inflation. At that time, they said that inflation would be a problem when we had so much growth in the coming years that inflation would be a problem. June 2008. So much for macroeconomic forecasts that are sometimes comparable to Ars and his predictions. And of course the Pahor's government, and here I give you the right, Mr Frangež, has done what management does in every firm when the crisis comes, the level of wages needs to be adjusted. By the fact that Pahor’s government had this happiness, it was not necessary to lower wages, but it could only postpone promotions, which is easier to do. And it is evident that if there were no wage reform in the public sector, they would enter the crisis by about 10 to 15% higher wages. It is said that around 300 to 400 million more would be paid per year for salaries in the first year of the crisis if this reform, for which I do not have credit, because I say that others started it, would not be. Things are a little more complicated. I wasn't pointing at anyone today. All we need to know is that what we are doing today and the law we are adopting today is due to a legal error that was made in 2010. Certainly not on purpose. It must have been done in order to adjust the payload of reality, but it was not done in a wise way. It might be possible then to resolve this matter by standing still. If only we could listen a little more to another group of unions, not just one group of unions. It just needed a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u271	Thank you. The replica is owned by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u272	Mr. Minister, let me just correct you in this statement. You started pointing your finger in the opening statement today, and you pointed your finger at your opening presentation for this booth. Let me just say that. Mr Minister, the tasks in this area are not yet far from being accomplished. You know that in this National Assembly we are always part of a battle about how to cut public spending. The bulk of public spending is public sector wages. As you know, the Social Democrats, and not me personally, are not among the ones who would have driven this topic the most. I am therefore grateful that you have presented today some information which the Slovenian public is not aware of. In view of the significant burden on the public sector of taking over the euro, the public sector has already been failing to pay wages in those years prior to taking over the euro. Today, however, we face the consequences. The elimination of wage imbalances is one of these consequences. These consequences are also substantive and are reflected in the decline in the quality of this public sector, as well as in the types of public services. I give the case a lot of times, a good teacher every time he comes to the chamber, and a bad teacher's luck. On their salary, the quality of their work is unknown. And a good teacher gets a message every day at the meeting of a bad teacher that it is no longer worth the effort. And the same goes for a good and bad cop, a good and bad soldier, a good and bad judge or a good and bad official in your ministry. Here we will have to approach the realization of what this coalition has also agreed on, and this is that we will more fully recognise the quality of the work done on the salary that the public servant will eventually receive. If you ask me, you have a personal ally within me to approach selective forgiveness, because I think it is possible to achieve significantly better results with a slightly smaller number of people with better rewards, motivation for good employees in the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u273	Thank you. The word is wanted by the Minister, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u274	I'm sorry. I have discovered this wonderful detail that, given that the rules of procedure allow me to make such an announcement at any time today, I will not kill myself too much with explanations. Mr Frangež, with what you have just said, I fully agree, I could say. The public sector has undoubtedly borne and felt a part of the burden of the economic crisis. This is seen mainly in reducing the level of rights and in lowering wages. In the public sector, wages have been significantly reduced, and as I said, if we are looking at growth from 2003 to today, we will see that cumulative growth in the economy has been significantly higher than cumulative wage growth in the public sector. This is also true after 2008. Here, Pahor's government has done one part of this business, adapting the payload of economic reality, the second part was done by ZUJF, and the third part was done this year by concluding an agreement on additional measures to compensate for the payload in the public sector. The error that has been dragging through all these years has been that there has been too much employment in the public sector, and this has increased wages. Even if you're lowering wages, if you're hiring people on the other side, the cost of work is higher. And that's what we've been drawn to. And again, information that the public doesn't know much about. Do you know which part of the public sector is even more restrictive about this? State administration. This has been the case since 2005 when the so-called.i. the project minus 1 %, reduced in its civilian work by more than 15 %. And it constantly reduces the number of employees, while unfortunately in health, education, social and culture the number of employees is growing. Only ZUJF has this trend reversed to a significant extent. There's a big problem. With regard to what you have said last, I will take you by word, because we have a draft amendment to the law on the public sector wage system already ready, going in this direction, in the direction of simplification and greater flexibility. We have also done so on the basis of one assessment made by the OECD, which our salary reform has been assessed very positively, as a major step forward, and at the same time suggested that in the next steps we should mainly make adjustments towards greater flexibility. I am a great advocate of the need to take more account of the work results, the work performance, and I am also in favour of forgiveness, not for business reasons, but in the forgiveness of the incompetent in the public sector, and I think we will have to do so in 2015. If I understand correctly, do I have the support of the parliamentary group here – or just Mr. Frangejo? Yeah, well, one vote is one vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u275	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Alenka Bikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Good-bye. It has been repeatedly said and stressed in the debate, on the part of the working body, that the law before us is correcting injustice, correcting the error that has occurred in the past. We're solving a matter that, as far as I know, no one was responsible. Deliberately or unintentionally. And not just in this matter. Even though we have many stories, conclusions, actions, decisions that are not only wrong, they are even harmful here in the National Assembly, but in the end no one is responsible. If in the future more responsible people would take responsibility for their decisions, well, there would probably be fewer laws like those before us today. I'm sure. Sadly, our government is now paying for the sins or mistakes of previous governments. So it's right that the law is before us. The law thus sets out the method of payment, ensures equal treatment of all public officials who are eligible, whether their rights have been recognised by a judicial decision or not, we provide a transparent and uniform way of paying for all beneficiaries, we prevent additional costs of judicial proceedings, we prevent negative effects on judicial backlogs and, last but not least, we maintain sustainable public finances. With regard to the SDS amendment itself, I must say that yesterday, the SDS, on the home committee, in its concern for the welfare of the countries, objected to the payment of the difference, and even with some other amendment and a decision which, by the way, was even controversial, because in the amendment, it wanted the Constitutional Court of Slovenia to decide on the constitutional appeal as soon as possible. Of course, it is controversial in terms of equality of treatment, since the Constitutional Court has its own rules of procedure when to decide. It therefore wanted the State Defence to file a constitutional complaint to ensure that the difference was not paid at all. Today, the same SDS tabled a new amendment proposing that the payment of the difference be made in one single amount by the end of February 2014 at the latest, together with the corresponding statutory late payment. My colleague Matjaž has already found that this is a bit confusing – don't you think? However, as regards the SDS amendment, which disagrees with the Supreme Court's judgment and wants the state to appeal to the Constitutional Court, Oops, forgive me, that is no longer the case today. Today it wants to be paid by April 2014, I do not support. I'll support the marriage. Firstly, as representatives of trade unions representing 90% of all employees in public administration support and want to implement it as soon as possible, they are reasonable and realize that this cannot be fully done at once by February 2014. We agreed to make the payment in two instalments. And a second time. We don't want another 100,000 new lawsuits in court if the law isn't passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Sonja Ramshak was next reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u278	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm gonna replicate to my colleague first. Apparently, she was not at the board meeting or somehow misunderstood what we were saying. We also told us yesterday that if it had to come to a payment, it should be done in a single amount. That is why we have tabled this amendment, which has now not been much of a talk. It was just on your side, everyone else was talking about the whole pay reform, not this amendment. As for our amendment at the meeting of the Committee, we proposed or asked the Minister whether all regular and exceptional remedies had been used to safeguard public interest. And it is not true that this interest could not be protected. In fact, because of this severe financial crisis, which the Minister also talked about when we say there is no money, we actually wanted to protect this interest. In a similar decision, the Constitutional Court has already stated that a constitutional complaint is also possible by the State when it does not act as an authority but acts as an employer. In a similar case, this constitutional complaint has already allowed. So much for understanding. Why have we decided to table this amendment, which should now be discussed? Because we believe that it is unacceptable to postpone the execution of judgments of the courts immediately and do not cause the costs of late interest again, because no one can give a guarantee in this Chamber that public servants will not go into the enforcement of a court decision despite the law adopted, because they have all the right and all the possibility. If you ask me personally, it would be best to actually make payment by 31 December 2013 and not move in 2014. Why? Also because of what we have recently adopted, this is a change to the Income Act, when we have abolished the indexation and public servants will do the same to the detriment of this. However, if we look at the situation of the country and the state will actually pay high late interest, it is 8.5% of the matrimonial interest that is today that can even be increased instead of using other levers, that can be paid immediately and does not entail any additional cost of late interest. We all know that the country has deposits at the bank and if it has now dedicated these deposits to the payment of the third quarter of the salary imbalances, we would have avoided paying late interest in such a high amount. We all know that deposits at the bank are paid at 3.4% interest rates and some want to make a move as soon as possible, because the public servant will also gain more on this account. However, if we looked at that the country had more than 3 billion deposits and were to pay immediately from these deposits, it would save about 6 million euros. €6 million means almost 5.5 million of what we have barely recovered in the area of voluntary fire and rescue, for the operation of voluntary firefighters and rescue workers and so on. These aren't small amounts. It may seem small amounts to someone who's talking about billions, but it's actually high amounts. The savings would also be, if I were to issue, say, treasury bills, which could save 7 million, and more. However, if we are talking about wage reform in general and who is to blame, I think all governments have been guilty so far. Finding the culprit and falling skeletons is, in fact, unacceptable if we know what the state is like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Bikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u280	I just want to explain. Of course, I was on the parental committee, where I listened to all the discussions, both yours and the Minister's replies, which explained that this was the Supreme Court's judgment, that this was it and that they were trying all the possible options that they could. However, in order for the state itself to file a constitutional complaint, the Minister himself said that it would be, to say the least, ridiculous. As for the amendment that we had not yet discussed, I had the opportunity to read it and I saw that it had been tabled, which is why I talked about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I've also seen a desire to discuss it, so I'm opening up an opportunity to apply. Six debaters and debates have been reported. The first is Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not deal with age-setting by the method described by my colleague Frangež, and not with the C-14 carbon isotope, which has a half-life of 5 thousand 730 years, but with the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 3. I will support this amendment because it follows logically what we have actually said in the position of the New Slovenia Group and because it follows logically the principles of a good master. I would not support this amendment if we had liquidity problems with regard to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia today. We don't have these problems, which is what Dr. Chufer himself said we don't have them, because that's why we're in debt. For the financing of the budget we are 15. 11. 2013 in a strange way and very, very expensively owed for €1.5 billion. Mr Minister said to remind you when we asked him why we owed so suddenly, overnight, he said, to finance the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. A little differently, Mrs Alenka Bratusek said, but now it doesn't matter. We have the money, the country has the money to make a single mistake — this is a mistake — payback. How will taxpayers react when we calculate them or have already calculated that the late interest will cost EUR 5 million, so calculated on the thumb? Late interest will be paid if we correct the second half of this error only in early 2015, it is true that, at the latest, the interest of EUR 5 will be late. There's a textile factory that does so-called business, and let's say it sews shirts, it has to sew more than a million shirts for 5 million. Yeah, more than a million shirts to make in a $5 million deal. But it looks like we're getting used to it, and well, five million, and that's nothing, because it's not even a billion. It is essentially the principle of a good master and it is therefore appropriate to open this amendment. Everything else is actual violence against the state budget or violence against those who fill the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u284	Nice greetings from the vice president, colleagues and colleagues! Alone and also in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment of colleagues from the SDS. The reasons have already been clarified several times today. It is also a matter of having to deal very cost-effectively with state money, especially now that it is less and less each day. And by signing and legislating for more than a year, paying 8.5 percent interest is certainly not an economic act. I understand the circumstances in which the Minister also accepted this agreement or admitted here that it was not a negotiation success in this work. In order to be able to achieve bargaining success or eventually reach out to one another and to be content in some way with one another, the will should be on both sides. I myself estimate that this point has run out of good will, not so much in government representatives, but in the context of trade unions that have represented workers who have the rights to complain and who have probably had one very limited framework of what they can negotiate and what they can't. That is why I think that this amendment, which seeks to achieve that what needs to be paid is useful and also economical, as I have already said. The reasons that have been explained regarding liquidity are also positive; it is not a problem to pay it off. From this place, I can say that we knew about this burden when we were drawing up the budget. We could have foreseen this in the budget later, even with the amendments, but we did not. If there is a need for a rebalancing, I promise you here a voice for this change, whether you make a budget rebalancing this year or by February, but I certainly think this is a good message. I believe that my colleagues in the government will follow this well-intentioned instruction, but I also believe that today's amendment, in view of the discussions, is unlikely to be adopted. At this point, I think that the debate has extended to other circumstances to move on to a fact that we do not all want together in this country, but I am not speaking now for the government representatives of the coalition-opposition, but for society as a whole, to admit that things have changed dramatically since the end of 2008, not only with us, but in the whole world. I also have a deficit report, a debt state, October 2013, where graphs are some year ago. And these graphs are more than eloquent. When this pay reform was adopted, our public debt fell, so that in 2008 we reached 22%, the deficit fell and then, because of all the circumstances, we now have a completely reversed picture. That is why I think that this is also the starting point, as already mentioned by my colleague Frangež, today, one good starting point for us to be able to behave in the future when we will certainly need to open a dialogue in society and make some simple changes. Nor am I in favour of being able to pay in the public sector in an unprecedented way and to cut a few percent each year and make a great success of it. I think that, in fact, we have a very big problem with this balancing in the public sector, that there are many people who are actually working under expectations, as we should be doing, and that rewards should also be provided with a better system, including that this job would not be as stable as it is today, to establish this competitiveness in the public sector. Above all, I think that we will have to cut back in admitting that we have also made mistakes on a number of sub-systems in these 20s, and that some of the things we have put into the system are simply kept, and for this purpose we also sometimes needlessly need additional employees. So I think that there is a broad debate in this society, and I look forward to what the Minister has announced that he has a ready law, because I am firmly convinced that this rigidity is also in the public sector and that the stability of these salaries is in some way also hampering a good competitive fight between these workers, and in particular a major obstacle to young people entering the public sector at all, because I think that fresh blood in the public sector is simply missing and could be acquired in this way. As for those statistics around wages, however, comparisons between the public: the private sector, let us be so correct, and let us say that over tens of thousands of jobs per year have been counted in recent years, which we have lost in the economy, and this is precisely in the lowest-paid category. Statistics are sometimes very interesting and wage growth in the economy, and average wages also reflect the fact that textiles are no longer available, the manufacturing industry is no longer growing and these ratios are broken.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Since the six hours I've been on board, I've been watching for five hours, but in that first hour that I'm missing, they've been clearing up their relationship with each other just the unions. Which is understandable. We've already told you why. That is why I am looking at the proposed amendment in the context of the debate held on the Committee. Here I would say that the proposed amendment has a poor grade for artistic impression. And it's not just an artistic impression, it's just a content that we're going to explain to you what the main weakness of this amendment is. In five hours, I don't know how many times, but I didn't count how many times, I heard a constitutional appeal. When colleagues and colleagues from the SDS compared incomparable, various constitutional decisions and other matters, and when they have ended after all, this must be said, including by predicting that the responsible person, this is the Minister, can be charged with a constitutional charge or even with an action for abandonment of due conduct and something else has been said. So it went so far. Why am I warning you this? Why do I see the difference between what was said on the committee and this amendment? What would be the final profit or effect of the constitutional complaint? Proponents of a constitutional complaint could not insist on it if they did not believe that the Constitutional Court would decide that the Supreme Court had erred, so they said that the staff were not entitled to remedy the differences. And then putting myself on the stand for public servants, and it's overturned for me. After you have done everything that this country should not have to pay, after having been explained, I do not know how many times that a constitutional complaint is a means of protecting human rights and that there is no State to protect its rights, but I see that the rights of public servants have been affected. That is why I was unable to defend a constitutional complaint, in addition to everything that was said. And allow us today to scandalise ourselves because of the adoption of a law whose bad effects are being abolished by this law, by insisting on a constitutional complaint, we would once again do something for which there was no guarantee that the constitutional complaint would be successful. Not to mention that the National Assembly or the Committee cannot impose on the Minister or the Government what to do. We must weigh our proposals and our conduct also in the context of ensuring legal certainty and the rule of law. And that is why it seems unacceptable to me what we are doing now, because we do not want to hang SDS's responsibility to stop the adoption of a law that claims that this must be done as soon as possible in order to make late interest as possible. Everyone knows there's no money. Everyone knows the situation we're in in this country. It is therefore necessary to be at least a little consistent in your proposals. As for the pay reform, I must say that I have also broken one of my commitments in connection with this law. I have made a request for a constitutional review of the article that talked about the translation of wages, those previous salaries into the new pay system, because the new pay system did not find a good answer for the translation of all wages, in all professions, especially in the arts, but I am thinking about those salaries on RTV or in the Ljubljana Drama or any other. Of course, I can agree with the Minister in a variety of ways, but it must be said that the Statistical Office has published the data on which teachers' salaries are at the level prior to the adoption of the euro. So much so we know what it's like to have these things. And that in some professions performing public services things cannot be easily summed up and shared, and that you need to know how Apples gets into those data on employee increase [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. I would like today to be able to support the SDS Members' amendment, but unfortunately the budgetary reality is different, so I believe that both Minister Virant and Minister of Finance Chufer will seek solutions so that the interest will be as low as possible, that these delays or that these funds will be paid to public officials not at the latest, but as quickly as possible. These discussions sometimes also help us to learn something. I think we learned something yesterday, whether a constitutional complaint is possible or not, I am pleased that today, too, Mr Frangež learned what wage imbalances mean. I, too, have heard many of them, since I am a Member of Parliament, as the so-called Virant Member of the so-called salary reform. But I'll say something, if we know now what the imbalances mean, if we get into this crisis with the old pay system, then only God can help us. As Minister Virant has already said, it has been opaque, blurry, and I have no idea what kind of discounts or agreements they would make. If I could just give you one example. Now we have 65 salary classes, and the state can negotiate with the unions that, I don't know, wages go down by one pay grade. In the previous system, there were so-called factors where the nominal difference was that the consultant had advanced for one pay grade, but he knew 20 euros when the Undersecretary progressed, and he knew 200 euros. And this lack of transparency, confusion, ambiguity, the supplements were somewhere more than basic wages, is proof that I say, thank God that we have a new pay reform, whether Drnovskov, Bohinchev or Virantov. And I'm gonna say this when some people say how we read back, etc. Look, the target is clear. Of course, there was also a need to limit funds on salaries, but the routes could vary. The former government has simply resorted to saving on the non-payment of the imbalance. But let me remind you how under the previous Janša government's rule-of-order system of civil servants, I believe that this was the last year of your ministry, Minister Virant has taken up transport. See how limited public sector transport has been. It's just as messy a system. The staff drove from New City, from the same place, and everyone who brought different train tickets for the bus paid off. In fact, it was transparent and, with one agreement, the staff of the ministries, by government regulation, that area was regulated without lawsuits and without any large pump. If you look at the data, you will see how those transports, which were also cancer wounds in the public service system, were arranged and plagued. I hope, indeed, that after two years of being sent to Virant's National Gazette, I hope that I will no longer have to listen to the signs of salary reform. I cannot support the amendment, my dear colleagues, but I trust Minister Virant that this will be paid as quickly as possible, so that it will be as painful for the state budget as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is really interesting to hear how many new experts we have received today in this National Assembly for various fields. Of course, this trip is also interesting in the history of the formation of this law and the debate or debate between former ministerial colleagues in a previous government, but there was less talk about the amendment itself. If I take a short look at our position, which I've already said. In fact, I wouldn't need almost the law if these amendments were adopted. But this amendment is small, fellows, wicked, if I don't say it's almost bollocks. In particular, if we are looking at how these meetings took place in the three sequels, when practically three quarters of the time was allocated to the SDS request, the State Defence Office should file a constitutional complaint to ensure that the difference is not paid at all. Now he proposes that it be paid in a single amount. Understand who can. With regard to all this concern about public finances, interest and so on, let me remind you, including Mr Vizjak, and without any intention of wanting to offend you, but no one has suggested that what the Constitutional Court has returned to us should be the incriminated 143rd paragraph, so that even to those people from whom many will not get it, but will receive its heirs, we will pay 80% of the difference only in April next year. And we only paid them 20% back then. There's no problem with public finances, interest, nothing. Let us be, as many of us have already said here, consistent in this and let us also say rightfully that more costs would be incurred if we did not adopt this law, because then we would directly assign 100,000 civil servants to the execution of the court and we could imagine what work would be done not only by the courts but also by us, from the Committee on Justice, when we could see how the backlogs and so on and so on have increased again and so on, in order to generate very bad will among the employees. The second part of the law concerns, in fact, that all civil servants are equal, equal. That it is not an enforceable decision only for those 31,000 people who have been decided by the Court in the first and second stages, but for everyone else to receive, as we have all received a regression for the year 2012 in this year. This part of the technical implementation of the law is needed precisely because today there was a speech about why this law is needed in order to actually ensure the equality of all those who have been affected in some way. I am also convinced that when this error or a bad marriage or union agreement was adopted, which some unions have also agreed to, even those who agreed then, and I agree here, they will also receive the bill, and then they agreed to it and agreed with the then minister, but so it is. I think it is also right that there are no differences in some sector, sometimes such things need to be eaten with a lump in the throat. But once again, I must say that the debate on the working body did not go in the direction of this amendment that we received today on the table, but rather in the direction of readings between the Minister and between the SDS, how this constitutional complaint must be lodged and why the Minister does not do so. It looked more like an introduction to an interpolation that would take place in about a month. And I also told the board that it was more a dry exercise than a substantive debate on this law. I will also support the marriage, and we will also support it in our parliamentary group with the desire that if I use the Minister's words as soon as possible, I will crack that money. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Replica has Mrs. Sonja Ramšak
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u292	I'll be very short. There won't be as many replicas as possible just a warning. As I have already said in my debate on this amendment, we will not withhold enforcement by law to a judicial decision. If you do not want us to cause not only for late interest but also for all costs incurred by the employer, but in most cases by the State, I inform you that the unions, those who opposed this law, have already decided to continue their enforcement procedures. What does that mean? I think Mr. Secretary knows very well. To avoid this, I think our amendment is at this point in time to make the payment of the third quarter of the salary imbalances as soon as possible, to prevent further executions and to reduce the costs of so-called lawyers, so-called executions and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u293	Thank you very much. There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u294	I am confident, Mrs Ramšak, that judicial proceedings and executions will be stopped or that no new ones will be invested. See if the people in the marriage are guaranteed, by the time they receive the payment of the first part, and by the time they receive the payment of the second part, they are still running late interest, but it is very unreasonable for someone to go into execution. Even if some unions that may have climbed a little by some procedure try to persuade their own and people to invest in executions or if some lawyers want to make money like this, look, people aren't stupid, and I'm sure a very small number will go into it. The statistics of the submitted executions have practically dried up in the last days. But they used to invest every day, and a few hundred of them got a place to stay. We've stopped this stamp now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Fishich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u296	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I appreciate that the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal needs to be supported. We need a comprehensive social arrangement. It is necessary to pour pure wine and to make it clear that we can only have such a public sector as we can afford. Such a public sector as the economy can finance in the long term. Such a public sector, which will be flexible and capable of rewarding the good and able to share the fate of the economy. This would also make similar legislative proposals, as we have now before us, the past, as it would be easier to negotiate and compromise between the state and the employees. Therefore, it would be wise to pay that pay gap immediately, so that we do not make any more of the costs with interest on the state budget, in which there is no money in any case, and is counting on new loans. That is why I think it is wise for the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Since there's still a desire to discuss it, I'll open the door for you to sign up. We have two other panellists reported. The first is Mr Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u298	Your Honor! Previously, the minister said that in those negotiations, which he now acknowledges for itself that there was no achievement, there were neither winners nor losers, but that is not true. What you are proposing in this law and what has been negotiated to pay late interest is in fact the most expensive form of credit. Which means there are probably no winners, but they are losers, losers are all taxpayers, they are entrepreneurs, they are the Slovenian economy. All those who are wrapped up every day with new and increasing taxes to the point that the Slovenian economy is dying and that we are the only country next to Cyprus In the European Union forecasting a new fall, a new economic disaster in the coming years. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the truth, and it is therefore necessary to support the amendment proposed by the SDS to make it pay immediately, because this is, despite the fact that it will require another debt, still cheaper than paying late interest. Because it's the most expensive form of credit. And those who have so argued, forgive me, these are not negotiations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u300	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President! Of course, I will support the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment that wage imbalances are paid immediately, of course with the fact that this is the most expensive for the budget itself. Today was a talk about artistic impressions, and about the dry exercise I am impressed with these exercises, such or otherwise, and history is not interested in backwards. [[...]] All I care about is pure mathematics and how this mathematics affects state finances and the state budget. And here the facts are clear. No return, no payment has to be made, and what's the most expensive thing for the country, it's said, right now. Of course, public servants have an excellent investment. If we attach funds to the bank today for a longer period, we get a maximum of 3.4% to 3.5% interest, and here public servants have an interest rate of 8.5%. That's a good investment. And given the fact that neither the 2014 budget nor 2015 budget has exactly no funds planned for this payment, we can count on the cost of the state budget not to be five, six million, as estimated in accordance with these deadlines, that is to say, payments by the end of the second month of 2014 and by the end of the first month of 2015 between five and six million, but a few million more will have to be added here. It is said that I do not understand this mathematics at all. If I looked at it from this point of view, I would also like to make one proposal myself, which Minister Virant and the government coalition are advocating. I would suggest that my monthly salary is paid with a one-month delay and that I am paid a late interest of 8.5%. It's the logic of the minister and the logic of the government coalition. I don't know if citizens will agree with that logic. And this logic is harmful to the state budget, it's detrimental to the financial stability of the country. We're talking about small amounts here, but we're also talking about large funds using this logic. And that logic is wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter wanted a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u302	Thank you. There was an artistic impression, and I don't think Mr. Žnidar understood the point of my comment. I have proven that the amendment tabled is diametrically contrary to what the Slovenian Democratic Party requested on the Committee. The request for a constitutional complaint went in the direction of non-payment of a third quarter of the salary imbalance. Now they're making a move and they want to do it now. And again with some arguments that are unacceptable to me, you're saying it's the cheapest thing for a country. Not to eliminate any injustice and to return the rights of a large group of public servants. That's what I'm talking about. And in this case, when a country has made a mistake, of course, it has to think seriously about how to handle it. But if this were agreed or negotiated with a single amount, we would have a completely different debate today because we would say where you have the funding provided in the 2014 budget. And that's what made me say that, in fact, this amendment is just about making an impression, but it's not really about wanting to solve the problem, that we can discuss these things today, and that we can make sure of things that we've been convinced of for six hours at a completely different level. And that's what I can't agree with and which makes it seem like I'm sick of making an amendment that you know the coalition can't accept. We know exactly what it is like, who has to take responsibility for making decisions, that in a few years, someone will be able to see again who has made such and such decisions. That's all this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u303	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the discussers. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item, and I am also adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote of twenty minutes after eight o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u304	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to end the 32nd item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a decision on consent to the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures of 10 September 2013. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 2nd item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination following an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 27 November 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 4. Under point one, the first decision on the amendment of the SDS Group is the amendment. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the second point and the amendment of the coalition to Article 4. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to the third point and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to the fourth point and to the amendment of the SDS Group, and I inform you that if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment under point 5 becomes irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the fifth point, and I am informing you that the amendment under point four has not been adopted, this amendment is irrelevant. We're moving on to a decision by 12. Article 12, amendment of the coalition to Article 12. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 20. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're moving to the 37th Amendment. Article, this is an amendment to the coalition. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 48 on the amendment of the coalition. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 48. It's an amendment to the coalition. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on Article 49. It's an amendment to the coalition. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. In favour of vote 51, no one voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted amendments to Articles 4, 12, 37, 48, 48 and 49 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. You don't want to. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. It's 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Committee on Justice proposes to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following decision be adopted: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. In favour of the 75th vote, no one voted against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it this decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on macroprudential supervision of the financial system under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. In favour of the 78 vote, no one voted against. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 33rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. In favour of vote 67, no one voted against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the final bill has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Members following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Members is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 5. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Bill of Supplements to the Water Act after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act by a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Religious Freedom following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on War Disabled Persons is not suitable for further consideration. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members shall be mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u305	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I know we're doing well, and I'm not going to make too much of an effort, but you know I'm already working very hard on this subject. We will not repeat the arguments, but I ask you to vote against the fact that the law is not suitable for further consideration and that we will solve this problem once and for all, because I have also slowly become tired of putting this law into effect over and over and over again.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u306	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on this proposal for a decision. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 29. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on the regulation of the labour market following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 26 November 2013. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 2. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 19. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that, in second reading, the National Assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill and I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. No, no, no. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm starting the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2a of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on how to pay the pay gap due to the elimination of the third quarter of the imbalances in the basic salaries of public officials under the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 27 November 2013. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3. This is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Since the decision has been adopted, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on access to information of a public nature is appropriate for further consideration. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 28th item of the agenda this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits is suitable for further consideration. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives is suitable for further consideration. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 22. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Culture as its parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 31st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 21 November 2013. We turn to Chapter 2 and to the decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 2. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister, I am very pleased that you are with us tonight, which gives special weight to this document, which we will accept and will also confirm with my colleague Tonin, even though we are Members of New Slovenia to this document in order to improve the document, I believe that there are eight improvements. The quality of the debate was on Friday, probably because it was the eve of the Slovenian national holiday, Rudolph Maistra's day. What was the purpose of our amendments to certain chapters? The aim was to make Slovenians or citizens of this country more proud of Slovenian culture. To open doors, windows, heads and hearts to have a different approach, a different concept, and this is the concept of Slovenian global cultural space. I don't know why we're acting kind of shy, but we do realize that Slovenian culture is actually happening all over our planet. And that Slovenia, of course within its financial capabilities, is also respectful of this. Finally, there are quite a few cultural projects around the world that we support from our national budget. And why not put this in this document, which is called the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture for 2014-2017, as well? Many times, when I talk about it, I remember the qualities of our southern neighbors. I do not want to imitate them where international treaties are concerned, but sometimes we should take the example of our national pride. Madam Vice-President, I will be rational and I will no longer speak to you, and in this first amendment, I ask my colleagues and colleagues to support our additions to this document. Believe me, this will further improve the document. We support this resolution, we do not set any ultimatums, but we are firmly convinced, and we have also made a number of efforts to make the document even better by adopting our supplements – more Slovenian, that would be the concept of Slovenian global cultural space. Let's not be ashamed of that! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u308	Thank you very much. More mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u309	Thank you, Madam Vice President. On Friday evening, we held a second reading of the motion for a resolution on the National Programme for Culture. It has been suggested that we did this work on the Committee on the eve of the Reformation Day and that we did the second hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly before the evening of Rudolph Maister. But let's be clear. The amendments of New Slovenia, which were rejected at the meeting of the Committee, were re- tabled for the plenary session. The position which the Minister explained on behalf of the Ministry of Culture on the Committee has not changed. This is because the whole resolution exudes the belief about a single Slovenian cultural space and that if amendments were to be included in individual places, in an inadequate way, as regards the creation of texts, matters which are regulated at a very principled level would be dealt with at the general level and amendments would go into determining very specific things. The resolution because the Social Democrats will not support these amendments, I am talking about all the amendments of New Slovenia, it will not lose weight, but it will remain more coherent as the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u310	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on this amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We turn to chapter three or to a decision on the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to chapter 3. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 3, and I am reminding you that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment becomes irrelevant under Number 3. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Chapter 3. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 4. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 6. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 8. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Chapter 8. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 10. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 12. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Chapter 14. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Chapter 15. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group,
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The second sub-chapter in Chapter 15 reads: "A higher level of regional and regional cultural integration of minorities." And all of you, who respect the Slovenian Constitution and know the Slovenian Constitution, are convinced that it is meant to be a Hungarian and Italian minority, which are constitutional categories in this country. However, it follows from the text that it is ethnic groups, German speaking and Serbian in the White Krajina. And this, as it is done, is certainly a prelude to new minorities in Slovenia, an attempt to implicitly introduce new national communities as constitutional categories and preludes to this because we owe respect to the Slovenian Constitution as long as it is such and recorded, should be aligned with the text followed by a higher level of regional and regional cultural integration of ethnic groups. I have worked very hard on the committee and on the plenary to accept this amendment, but in view of the resistance of some, I think it is a conscious attempt at what I mentioned at the outset. This way through the last door in Slovenia we introduce a German-speaking minority and a Serbian-speaking minority in Slovenia. We know that there are extremely strong interests after such a change in the Slovenian Constitution and such a constitutional category, which is why this needs to be changed in this chapter at this time and in this matter in order to preserve the integrity of the Slovenian Constitution and the Slovenian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u312	Thank you very much. More mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u313	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. This amendment cannot be supported because the chapter in which the amendment is to be included bears the title of Human Rights and the protection of cultural diversity. In particular, I stress that human rights are at stake and that the right to one's own culture, expression of culture and development of one's own culture is a fundamental human right. If the title were so renamed as proposed here: A higher level of regional and regional cultural integration of ethnic groups, we would miss the point. This is a higher level of regional and regional cultural integration of minorities. The minority expression is used not only in this resolution but also in the resolution on language policy. This is the opposite of a minority: the majority, the minorities are different, and this text must remain so written as to include, as it is said, such an approach also allows analogous use for other minority communities, not only for nomadic Germans, which are why we specifically refer to an interstate agreement. This is also the case for other groups that have either an inter-State agreement and this diversity needs to be specifically integrated into the national cultural programme. It's cultural rights, not political rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Any other explanation for the voice? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 48. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Chapter 15. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. Lord Jerovšek, in your own name, be my guest, you have the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u315	I am very sorry that I will have to vote against the resolution, although I support and agree with the content of the resolution. However, due to the respect and commitment of the Slovenian Constitution and the respect of the Slovenian people, I am obliged to vote against it because the amendment to Chapter 15 has not been adopted to the second sub-chapter. In this sub-chapter, in my firm belief, an implicit attempt is made, through the back door, to prejudge the existence of two additional minorities with a constitutional category. We know how these procedures are going, and it is entirely irresponsible that, with a well-intentioned warning and a true dictatorship in the text of this chapter, it persists in such an address that absolutely triggers certain implications that can cause very serious consequences. We know that these aspirations for the Serb minority in Slovenia are very strong, and here the doors are opened by such minorities as, of course, German speakers. This is not denial, as I say, of cultural identity and of all the rights of ethnic groups. It is about avoiding consequences and implications and respecting the Slovenian Constitution and the Slovenian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u316	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Members 79 and Members present, 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland on defence cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Period of the day, it's a defensive bill on the ratification of the arms trade treaty. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. The Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Italy, the Republic of Cyprus, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the amendment and other amendments to the Convention on the Transboundary Impacts on the Environment. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. On the basis of the draft law on the ratification of the internal agreement between the Heads of Government of the Member States of the European Union meeting within the framework of the Council, the financing of the European Union’s assistance under the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, in accordance with the Partnership Agreement, the ACP-EU and the granting of financial assistance to the Member States and territories, the fourth part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be applied. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments to the meeting cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement between the European Union and its member states on one side and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on a common airspace between the European Union and its member states on one side and Georgia on the other. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, that is to say the draft law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Kosovo on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income and property taxes. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 35. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Does the rapporteur or the rapporteur of the Commission wish to speak? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yeah. I am opening a debate on behalf of the groups of Members. We've got two registered. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. No, the debate, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u317	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us an appointment, a staff appointment as a member of the State Audit Commission. There is no doubt among us that this is an important institution where the correctness of work and the treatment of people with the same criteria is, in fact, a prerequisite for talking about things going on in some appropriate way. Already on the Commission's terms of reference, they have pointed out that, with the proposal chosen on the Commission's mandate, some things do not mean that things will go well on the State Audit Commission as well. We have received a proposal from a candidate who has been forwarded to the Mandate-Election Commission, and in that part concerning the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has come to the document for manual correction and no one has signed this amendment. It is not known when this correction was made, who made it, and given that the candidate is running for the State Audit Commission, it is unlikely that this does not mean that the accession to the candidacy in this part is completely corrected. If this has occurred in the appointment of a member of the State Audit Commission, then the audit procedures to be dealt with on this committee may be similarly. However, it is a matter of handling complaints on public tenders, and given that we have probably had a lot of bad experience so far with swaps of cassettes, diskette replacements and so on, such a correction, such a mark that is not marked and not signed, probably does not give good promises that work on the State Audit Board will take place in some appropriate and corrective manner. The second thing that is quite clear from this proposal is that the candidate comes from the Positive Slovenia Group. I do not mind that experts, members of the parties are running, but someone who is one year in the training of the National Assembly or more is essentially working for the political group, and then can nominate as a member of the State Audit Commission is probably not a candidate who can be fully trusted. It's probably one of the models again how important state institutions are being recruited according to some political criteria. None of these candidates were eligible, and a candidate who was the only candidate fell on the previous call, and apparently this part is also involved in a policy of political recruitment to these functions. Just as it happened in the Court of Justice, as it does in a number of other important institutions that manage state assets. In this case, however, it will be a matter of reviewing the procurement procedures. I think that this approach, on the one hand, the correction of the application and, on the other hand, political staffing also in cases where political independence, neutrality and, on the other hand, is required, suggests that we can promise ourselves in the State Audit Commission perhaps even more deformed procedures and findings as they have already been carried out. A wide range of audit projects have fallen unjustifiably, huge problems, the loss of large European funds and so on. But now the candidate is coming, and apparently the majority will choose him who doesn't, I will say, even my candidacy or this approach is not without error and is not corrected. We will not support this proposal in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-27-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the delegation? In your own name? We can move on to decision-making. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by which it is magnified. Mateja Škabar shall appoint a member of the State Audit Commission. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. For vote 39, against 23. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice evening.
