ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 51st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, mag. Melita Župevc, Mr Alojz Potočnik, Mr Brane Golubovic, Mr Borut Ambrožič, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mrs Iva Dimic and Mrs Ljudmila Novak. I invited representatives of the Government and the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 51st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, Thursday 12 December 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We are moving on to a decision and I propose that you check the functioning of the voting apparatus before making a decision. Thank you. We're voting on the agenda. There are 63 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 51st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Gradually, Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! Today we are expected to have a presentation on this most important bad thing that has happened to us this year, namely the presentation of measures and problems related to the resolution of the bank hole. It is likely that the President of the Government would also be here. We are one of the few countries that has experienced this shock with regard to the banking system, and probably the only one where the government's most important representative is not a representative in the National Assembly. I do not recall that any European country that has been in the process of bailing out banks would have done so in such a way that the presentations in the National Assembly would not have been carried out by the President of the Government, but by other persons. Next thing. I can only say that the President of the Government is present at a meeting of the National Assembly, even when we are dealing with about a thousand or more minor problems, such as a financial bank hole. For this reason, I propose that the President of the Government be invited to this item on the agenda. The second thing I would also say is that today there were two press conferences attended by government representatives and the governor. Journalists today had twice the opportunity to ask both the Minister of Finance and the Governor about problems related to the resolution of the bank hole. I'm afraid we don't have the opportunity. I believe that if the coalition has already convened this extraordinary meeting, it would also be possible for Members to discuss this issue and also the most responsible issues in this country, that is to say the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, who is already here. But the coalition doesn't allow it, and here you have us as some first-graders to teach us ex cathedra about the bank hole and then we go on our way home. This is not the way to work in the National Assembly, and this should not happen at such an important point in the agenda. However, if you have already decided to do so, then I suggest that both the Minister of Finance and the Governor inform the National Assembly only of what happened after 14 hours. By 2 p.m., we have all the information on the web portals and other media. I suggest you just say what we've never heard from anyone before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u3	Thank you. With regard to your procedural proposal, I must tell you again that we have received a message from the Government, from which it is clear that today's presentation on behalf of the Government will be presented by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Čufer, and you were also present at the College when we voted that the presentation will also be carried out by the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, who is also among us. You are also aware that Article 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly does not allow discussion and therefore your proposal cannot be taken into account. Mr Möderndorfer also has a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u4	Dear President, Minister, Governor, Members, Members of Parliament! Today we have already received one such performance by the leader of the largest opposition parliamentary group and it seems that this will become parliamentary practice and folklore. The fact is that this is accompanied by the Slovenian public, the leader of the largest opposition parliamentary group has abused this procedural part only because he is convinced that he will not have that word. However, he forgot to say the point is that today this parliamentary group has already tabled a request for an extraordinary meeting, where the mother's working body will also discuss a completely similar topic. And since there is no time for the National Assembly to be blocked by this same parliamentary group, it is likely that due to this overcrowding, and the deadlines will probably even be forced to deal with it on Sunday. Not that, but the next one. Therefore, I ask the President, given that this has become a parliamentary practice and does not already say in advance what the proposal is in fact, because, under Article 239 and as a true leader under Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure, all the conditions for today's work are met. I therefore propose that we go to work, but please, if we avoid these procedural procedures, because they are known in advance and the purpose is clear. Again and only they know is blocking the work of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u5	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I thought you'd react because you're in charge of the session. The suspension session, because we interrupted it at nine o'clock and lasted three and a half days with nights worth, is called upon by the coalition, not by the SDS. This meeting, which we are now witnessing, is called upon by the coalition and not by the SDS. So, Mr Möderndorfer and Mr President, when you are talking about these accusations that are not being held, I suggest you intervene accordingly. For today's session, I have only suggested that the President of the Government should also come and that we also have the opportunity for Members to have a debate. The way in which the sitting is convened is not allowed, but the meeting may be convened in another way. We have Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure, a meeting is tabled, a proposal can be made for recommendations or opinions or anything and a debate can be held there, but this coalition is not in the interest. And that's the problem. That is also why the problem, because we are talking today about the biggest problem of the Republic of Slovenia, is the financial hole, which is about €10 billion, one state budget, and members of the opposition are not allowed to at least ask the President of the Government, the Minister of Finance or the Governor about projects, measures and so on. It's not allowed. And if the coalition imagines the work of the National Assembly to come here and listen and go home, then something with the National Assembly is wrong. The essence of the National Assembly is the debate on the agenda item. The essence of the National Assembly is not listening to the agenda item, and what you have now set with this request for an extraordinary session is precisely this: to transmit ex cathedra and then home.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u7	What is your procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u8	I would suggest that you warn the President, for the first time, all those when they don't speak correctly. Secondly, in order to allow the President of the Government to come, this can be requested by the Members of the National Assembly, and also to open a debate on this item on the agenda. That's what I suggested and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u9	Thank you. Look, I hope we're listening, but on your first procedural proposal, I've given you an explanation of who will present this information on behalf of the Government today. I also told you that Article 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly does not allow debate between Members and Members. What Mr Möderndorfer explained to you I did not stop him because he told you that you had tabled a request for an extraordinary session where it would be possible to discuss this point, which you say you cannot discuss. I have not seen any reason to remind him of something because he did not say anything that would not actually be filed and there is no reason for him to be reminded of something that is not true in this procedural proposal. His procedural proposal was to start with the first item on the agenda, and I think it would be really good if we could start as soon as possible with this item on the agenda. Before that, Mr Han has a procedural proposal, if I have correctly observed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u10	Thank you. I am sorry, Mr President, that a respected minister, a respected governor, a colleague and a colleague, that we do not know how to behave in this temple of democracy. I'm really sorry. Today I was very pleased, not because of this hole that it was, this hole was created in 10, 12 years old, but because there was no panic in this country because in this state people didn't fly to banks because we kind of did it because those who did it were doing it were doing some kind of move that we think is good. I know it's a pain because Europe has also praised us, but Mr Tanko is misleading us. Mr. Tanko requested this morning's meeting at an extraordinary college. He demanded that the Minister of Finance and the Governor come to the National Assembly and explain to Members, as they did to journalists. That's why the coalition demanded and wrote papers for an extraordinary session. Mr Tanko well knows that it is impossible to discuss, because otherwise we should have a mother's working body, some conclusions should be adopted on the home working body and then we should go to this room and discuss here. But Mr. Jože Tanko simply can't handle 22 minutes of state policy. Jože, this is impossible what you're doing right now, impossible what you're doing. You're today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u11	Mr. Han [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u12	sign 650 pages in 11 minutes [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u13	Procedural proposal you have [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u14	And we'll have an extraordinary session. [[...]] I don't want it on Sunday. We'll have it on Christmas. We're going to have an extraordinary session on Christmas, because otherwise we won't have to do it. My family will suffer, but because we will be able to discuss some things, we will have a Christmas session because we will require the Social Democrats to attend the Christmas session.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u15	Allow me once again to conclude that Mr Han did not have a procedural proposal and has somehow taken advantage of this procedural proposal to remind you of the facts that we have exchanged for an hour in the agreement to the College on the convening of this meeting. This warning that no procedural proposal has been made is, of course, true. I propose, however, that we really approach point 1 with respect to our fellow Members, because none of the procedural proposals you have put forward at this moment were intended to do so, except for Mr Möderndorfer, in order to do as soon as possible the work that is ahead of us and for which we agreed to the College. Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedure? Excuse me? I'm sorry, Mr. Mag. Tonin was even declared a procedural proposal before Mr Tank. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u16	Madam President, I would like to point out to you in the procedural proposal that the predecessors are simply using the procedural proposal to debate. If so, then I too will take the motion of procedure and start to discuss what I think of today. But if that is not the case, then I ask that you stop this debate as soon as the colleague begins to debate. And the only procedural proposal I heard today was that the President of the Government should come to this Chamber. That's all. Other things were more or less debates. And I ask you to have all the same vats, and if you see that there is no procedural proposal for you to stop this immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u17	Mr Tonin, you know that the time for the motion is set, and if I interrupt or try to stop immediately at the beginning, it is certainly the response of the person who requested the procedural proposal, 'wait, President, I will submit this procedural proposal below'. However, I also drew Mr Han's attention to the fact that there really was no proposal in his procedural proposal. Mr. Tanko, do you still wish for a procedural proposal or can we move on to point 1? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u18	Mr President, I suggest you put a motion of procedure to the vote. I have suggested that the President of the Government participates in today's meeting, and I think we should put this proposal to the vote. If it is not adopted, it will not be adopted, but we will see it by vote. However, it is inappropriate for an amended procedural proposal to be made, even you yourself have found that it has been given and you do not put it to the vote, but simply put it to the left hand. We have an important agenda item ahead of us. The problem is that Members cannot be debated because they are deliberately put into the process. Mr President, can you give us a moment of peace?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u19	Yes, yes, please, you have the floor because they listen to you. Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u20	Well, I would ask my colleague Han and Möderndorfer to be worthy of the speaker. We have rules like that in the National Assembly. Let me do it again. I suggest you make a proposal to invite the President of the Government to the National Assembly to present the agenda to us for a vote. I think some things need to be done in some way. It is a key issue of the state, the same weight of the state budget for this year and for the next year, and it is right that the one who is most instructive and most responsible for resolving the situation in this country comes before the Members and tells them what measures are planned and so on. President, I propose that you put the proposal to the vote and that the coalition decide whether the President of the Government needs this moment in this Chamber or does not need it. It would be appropriate for us to respond appropriately to the situations in which we are, and we will vote in favour of the proposal that the President of the Government come and explain this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr Tanko, but I cannot put your procedural proposal to the vote because I have already informed you that the Government has officially notified who will present and submit this information on behalf of the Government. All the conditions are laid down for us to obtain this information, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I think it is really inappropriate for us to interfere with the decision of the Government who will present this position. I suggest we move on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is for the defence of information on the results of irresistible reviews of the quality of the assets and burden tests of banks and the implementation of measures to safeguard the stability of banks. The Government sent information to the National Assembly on the basis of Article 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 239(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I sent it to you today, 12 December 2013. On behalf of the Government, the information will be presented to the National Assembly by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u23	Can I have a word, please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u24	Just a second, if that's all I can explain. Given that today's presentation consists of two parts, the first part is about the results of stress tests, the second part consists of measures taken by the Government on the basis of these stress tests. Given that stress tests or the preparation of all activities were conducted by Banka Slovenije, I would suggest that if the Governor could present it at the outset, then I will present another part of the measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u25	Thank you. Okay. I give the floor to the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u26	Good evening! With the help of independent international experts, the aim of the careful review we carried out since August 2013 was to assess the strength of the Slovenian banking system in the hypothetical circumstances of the most adverse stressful events and to determine the possible capital deficit that a bank and the banking system could have when such a scenario was implemented. First of all, ten banks were involved, representing a representative sample of 70% of the Slovenian banking system, which means that Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor, Abanka, Gorenjska Banka, Banka Celje, UniCredit Banka, Hypo Alpe-Adria Banka, Raiffeisen Bank, Probanka and Factor Banka were involved. The other two were later excluded from the review due to a controlled cessation procedure. The review was carried out by Oliver Wyman, who did the stress tests following the approach from below, Roland Berger, who did the stress tests following the approach from above down, Delloitte and Ernst & Young, who carried out quality reviews of the assets, and four companies that carried out the valuation of the property SBRE, Jones Lang LaSalle, Cushman & Wakefield and Colliers. The prudential review of the banking sector included the implementation of the asset quality review and the implementation of stress stress stress tests covering the completeness and integrity of the data, the review of individual credits and the evaluation of collaterals, and the identification of the appropriateness of the impairments. On the basis of these data, an assessment or burden tests have been carried out or banks will be able to maintain sufficient capital levels by the end of 2015. The implementation of the review was supervised by a steering committee composed of representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance and Observers of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the European Banking Authority. There was a capital deficit of 4 billion 778 million in eight banks. Of this, a capital deficit of €3 billion 715 million has already been identified in the state aid award process in three banks. In the light of the procedures for granting State aid, we divide the measures and procedures for further recapitalisation into two groups, namely, the recapitalisation of three banks: the New Ljubljana Banks, the New Maribor Credit Banks and the Banks, which were found to require direct recapitalisation of EUR 3 billion and EUR 12 million. In the second group, the remaining five banks are: Unicredit banka Slovenije, Banka Celje, Hypo Alpe-Adria, Raiffeisen banka and Gorenjska banka, which meet the capital requirements of Banka Slovenije, but stress tests have shown that they have a potential shortage of available capital by the end of 2015. For this group of banks, Banka Slovenije issued an order that their owners should provide the necessary capital by the end of June 2014. The direct cost of the budget for which funds will be provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore EUR 3 billion 12 million, which at the moment ensures that all three banks are on the required capital adequacy, even more so, Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor at around 15% of the share capital ratio, which these two banks place on the side of the average in the European Union or the Eurosystem. That we are still waiting for the decision of the European Commission by DG COMP to confirm the recapitalisation or granting of State aid to these three banks, all procedures for this decision are delayed, which means that the recapitalisation will take place as soon as we receive the decision of the European Commission. Stress tightenings were carried out in two ways primarily to enable us to calibrate data and thus obtain the necessary capital deficit or required recapitalisation in three banks in a manner consistent with the recommendations of the European Central Bank and the European Commission, which makes it easy for Slovenian banks to continue to participate in the system of European central banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u27	Thank you, Governor. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Urosh Cuffer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would like to thank you for this opportunity today to give us the opportunity to present our actions we have taken. As the Governor said in the introduction, the government today took note of the results of the stress tests and a careful view of the bank's assets. The result was a capital gap of €4.7 billion in the event of an extremely negative and unfavourable stress scenario over the next three years. This means that, in fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has to provide three banks: NLB, NKBM and Abanko three billion euros. First of all, I might present you with the logic of action and how the system works so that we can use the taxpayer's money at all. In fact, we have four defensive lines of taxpayers' money. First, when there is a need for recapitalisation in one bank, it is necessary to seek first the possibility of finding a private investor. When we looked at the results of the banks, and given that three banks had already shown in the past that they had been looking for investors, that they had already had an order from the Bank of Slovenia and were unable to find a private investor, the decision was to allow these three banks access to taxpayers' money in the form of recapitalisation. Until this solution is exhausted, this option is not given. As a result, the remaining five banks in the stress test cannot come or have no access to taxpayers' money, but must first find a solution to the market. Another defence line before we can spend taxpayers' money is that first the existing owners and owners of subordinated liabilities must cover their share of the costs as much as they can actually. As a result, it is also one decision that the Bank of Slovenia has in fact become aware that the owners of both shares and subordinated liabilities have participated in this. And it's only after we get to the third line of defense that we can use taxpayers' money. And the 3 billion I mentioned earlier were only after the first and second lines were not enough to cover most of the deficits in these three banks. Then there's a fourth line. The fourth line relates to how the state gets taxpayers' money back. There are two options here, and we will take advantage of both. Firstly, through the operation of banks, and this is part of the restructuring programme that these three banks have to prepare, two have already prepared, and the third is preparing it, and the privatisations of these three banks. For this reason, the Government has also today adopted a commitment at its meeting to privatise the NKBM of 100% and NLB to the level, so that it can in fact remain a maximum of 25 plus one percentage, and this is in fact part part of the commitments that the Republic of Slovenia had to make to the European Commission for the approval of the programme. I would also like to tell you that the additional measures we have taken today have also been the transfer of claims to a bad bank, both from all three banks, or the total carry-over value of € 1.6 billion. Banks therefore receive 4.5 billion bad claims. In order for a bad bank to function normally and effectively restructure the bad claims it has received in its own possession, it must have an appropriate capital basis. For this reason, the Government has also today accepted that a bad bank is recapitalising EUR 200 million, thereby obtaining adequate capital and functioning as soon as possible to restructure businesses and return to normal functioning. And the fourth thing I mentioned was a commitment that is two-layered. One layer of commitments is those made by the Republic of Slovenia to the European Commission relating to the privatisation of banks in the manner of corporate management of these banks, which are recipients of state aid, in a way and in the need to improve risk management in these banks and the set limits in the operation of the bank, and requires it to focus on their core business. Then there are commitments that the Republic of Slovenia requires from banks that they were even entitled to receive State aid from our point of view. Here I would point out in particular the commitment that banks and supervisory boards of banks should, under the Bad Bank Act, actively cooperate with law enforcement authorities – and not only cooperate when they are invited, but also actively look for elements of criminal behaviour and initiate appropriate procedures and at the same time initiate all compensation actions and compensation procedures so that part of taxpayers' money can also be returned. I might be able to read you a summed-up version of the action. So if we go one more time, the so-called NLB is recapitalised at EUR 1.5 billion, the NKBM at EUR 870 million and the Bank at EUR 590 million. Let me do it again. On the basis of the NLB and NKBM business strategy developed, the government confirmed the recapitalisation of these two banks and confirmed the transfer of bad claims to the DUTB and determined that the recapitalisation and transfer of bad claims would be done at the same time. The government agreed with the catalogue of State aid commitments for NLB and NKBM, which were given in relation to the European Commission. The Government also took note of the proposal from the Inter-Resort Commission to agree with the list of bad loans transferred to the DUTB. I have already mentioned that the Government has decided to increase DUTB's core capital by EUR 200 million. I would also like to say that the Government has also concluded that it will recapitalise the Probank and Factor Bank at EUR 445 million, as has been shown to be necessary on the basis of those procedures that we have already extensively interpreted here. The government has also made a return on all other results of asset quality and stress tests in all other banks, which means that it will act and take all appropriate measures in terms of state aid, in accordance with the measures allowed by the Bad Bank Act. What do these measures mean for public finances? On the basis of what we have adopted today, the country's gross debt is increasing to 75% of the gross social product. After this exercise, the country will remain in the account for a further EUR 2.5 billion, which means that the net debt of the country is 68.5% of the gross social product. While this is large, it is still significantly lower than the European Union average of around 93% of gross social product. I would say that important steps have been taken today to get a clear picture of what is happening and what is happening in the economy. However, I would say that this is far from the conclusion of the exercise, but it is only the beginning, which means that we must continue the reforms and activities that we are doing in the area of consolidation of the banking system and the withdrawal of the country from the banks, that we must substantially speed up and continue the things we have done in the area of corporate deleveraging. We have also received three important success factors this month, which means that we can do these things very successfully in the future, and this is that we have new legislation relating to corporate deleveraging, both in court and out-of-court, that we have made a transfer to a bad bank and that we have DUTB, which is adequately teamed up both staff and capital, which has knowledge and independence so that it can also restructure businesses. Furthermore, what we need to continue and it is very important to ensure that things do not happen again is to improve corporate governance in state-owned enterprises. You all know the debate we have around the Slovenian State Holding, where we need to ensure that we actually have centralised management of all state assets and that we have a very clear strategy, whose investments are strategic and important that the state manages them, and that they are managed well, and whose investments are not strategic and for which it is possible that the state does not manage them and that it leaves them to someone else to manage them, and that we continue with the already promised privatisation process, as we have actually begun to complete it. I would like to thank you for your attention and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u29	I also thank the Minister for the information provided. Mr. Joža Tanko wants to do this step-by-step.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that there is extremely little time spent in these two presentations, all one-quarter of what is foretold would suggest that both the Minister and the Governor be given an answer. Today, we have not received any explanation as to why this weekend will not be carried out or what has caused this weekend's proceedings to not be completed as foretold. Or in this preparatory period, when all these things have been coordinated with the European Central Bank, with the European Commission, the Government and the Bank of Slovenia have not been able to complete the procedures so that this transaction and these transactions will not be completed this weekend. We need a reason to tell us that. The question raised is whether this blockade, if I understand correctly, is the European Commission, because there is no agreement, done or not, because the valuations of assets that will also be transferred to a bad bank have not been properly carried out. There must be some reason why this didn't happen. I would expect both the Governor and the Minister of Finance to explain it. All the measures referred to by the Minister are therefore blocked. I'm asking when they'll start to apply if the procedures are still in place. I also want to explain what defensive lines are in finance. This was presented with some military jargon, there we know what a defensive line is, but if you need capital for banks from those who have subordinate bonds there, it's not a defensive line, it's a dispossession of those who have it. And I would really like to ask for further clarifications, given that you were at the press conference at least four times longer than you told Members of the National Assembly. Even from the point of view of underestimating the National Assembly, this is not good, and that is what we said in the introduction. But I suggest we get these clarifications.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u31	Thank you. The procedural proposal is for the Minister and the Governor to complete their information. I ask, do you wish to complete your information within the time allowed? Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u32	Look, President, this is a school abuse now. They will have an extraordinary session, and from here to forever they will be able to ask questions and talk, first on the home committee and then everything else. We said, and at the College we made it very clear that they had called an extraordinary meeting too early anyway, because in two or three months they would be able to talk about it when it was significantly more clear. Now, on the basis of a procedural request, Mr Tanko opened the debate. Now, let us take a decision on the rules of procedure whether this is a reference to an extraordinary meeting on the basis of Article 239 or an article which I do not yet know, and perhaps the second year will be written in this Rules of Procedure. Order and discipline must be respected, and it is only you who are responsible, President. Please, if we stop making turns here and there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Möderndorfer. Allow me to explain to you that any Member requesting a word for a procedural proposal has the opportunity to get a word as soon as the debater has concluded the debate before him. This is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is also necessary to make a procedural proposal to supplement the information provided. I also asked correctly whether any of the representatives in charge of providing information would like to complete their presentation. They have time at their disposal. The governor, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, expressed his desire to complete his presentation. And it's not a debate, it's a procedural proposal. It is entirely a matter of acting in accordance with the rules of procedure. Finally, it is the President or Chairman who also interprets the rules of procedure during the meeting. Allow me to give the floor to Dr. Boštian Jazbec, who has expressed his desire to complete his presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u34	Thank you. Only reply regarding the completion of the procedure to be taken by the European Commission. We expected the European Commission, in line with the publication of the results of the burden tests and the quality review of the asset, to also grant a transfer permit, recapitalisation or start granting State aid. This has not occurred, in particular, on the grounds that written procedures and formal procedures on the European Commission are taking longer. Because we have only just received the latest results on Friday, these procedures are likely to be in progress both following the European Commission's assurances and to take place relatively quickly. I must warn you that if this were to happen today, this would be the first case. In the case of Ireland, in the case of Spain, these procedures continued for some time after both countries published burden tests and asset quality checks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u35	Thank you. Procedural proposal, Mr Happy Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u36	If I simply say so, Mr Governor, on behalf of many citizens and citizens, as well as many here, I am ashamed, Mr Minister, that you must listen to this and that this is how it happens in this national assembly. Don't mind what I'm about to say here. President, it's not right. Tanko asked a question. The governor answered the question. At this meeting, it was said that there would be no debate. He was talking about it in principle. Finish the session, stick to the rules of procedure, finish this so that we will not continue to fall out of one, or else we will all discuss as long as there is no time fair, ladies and gentlemen. [[...]] [[...]] It's not right, it's not fair, it's not how it's done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Meh. But I think I have given a very correct explanation that everything has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that the Rules of Procedure are also clear. If there is any confusion as to the conduct of the meeting, the chairman shall always have the power to interpret the Rules of Procedure. These are the rules enshrined in our Rules of Procedure. Procedural proposal, Mr Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My procedural proposal will, in accordance with your explanation of the possibility of making a procedural proposal and the opportunity to give both the honourable Governor and the Minister the opportunity to complete their reply within the time available. In his presentation, the Minister said that we owed the country up to 70% of GDP with this recapitalisation. In 2008, we had an obligation of about 20%. In five years each year about 10% up or around 3 and a half billion per year or slightly less than 2 000 euros per capita per year. My procedural proposal is, however, that the Minister or Governor tell you where the border is when the state collapses, to what extent the debt of GDP is owed. If I am not mistaken, one of the countries that has collapsed and has been in a European Troika for three years has been in debt just over 100% of GDP. How do you estimate how long and how far our country can go? Is this already the upper limit, given that Mr Minister said that we are still in a certain middle or we are not yet in the highest position with regard to GDP in the European Union?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Puksich. I must remind you that this time you have misused the instrument of the procedural proposal for discussion. The procedural proposal was followed, if I am not mistaken, Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I am merely supplementing what I have already said in the procedural proposal. I also asked for an explanation from the Minister, given that the President of the Government is not. The President of the Government said publicly that all these matters would happen on Friday and that it would be over. If I have correctly understood the presentation of both the Governor and the Minister, this will not happen. I ask the Minister where the optimism of the President of the Government is that what is going on with this resolution of the banking system will end on Friday. I would ask for a comment because this was foretold so vehemently, and that is exactly what will not happen as foretold. And now I also understand why there is no President of the Government at this presentation today, because I should probably say that what she said a day or two ago does not stand. However, I would like to ask the Minister to comment on this, in my view, an important point.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. I must also remind you this time that you have misused the procedural proposal for a debate. The Minister has already said that he does not wish to complete his presentation by continuing with the requirements for procedural proposals. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u42	I propose that you open the vote for the procedural debate and we will discuss it until time runs out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-51.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr Meh, but as I said, the rules of procedure are interpreted by me and I will do so. If there are no other proposals, I conclude this item on the agenda and also conclude the 51st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you so much and good night.
