ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Renata Brunskole, Mrs Mateja Pučnik, Mrs Janja Attack, Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mr Samo Bevk, Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Bojan Starman. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Relative Rights following the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of four Members and a group of first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Alenka Pavlič, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u2	Good morning! The Committee on the Economy is at its 11th session. Ten. 2013 treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law as the parent working body. Representatives and representatives of the proposed law of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, Law and Legal Services, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Institute of IPF, the Association of the Phonogramician Industry of Slovenia, SAZAS, the ZAMP Society, the Institute of AIPA, the Association of Slovenian Operators of Digital Television Services SUGU, GIZ SNAVP, the Association of Slovenian Film Creators, the Association of Slovenian Directors, the Institute for Intellectual Property and the Association for the Protection of the Interests of Music Publishers were present. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services and of the Government which do not support the proposal for a law, the opinion of the Council of Justice, which considers that the proposed tariff procedure is poorly regulated, which would in practice lead to difficulties, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law, and the comments of the Association of the phonogram industry of Slovenia and the Association for the Protection of the Interests of Music Publishers. The amendment to the bill was tabled by the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further clarified the extensive comments made in the written opinion of the Service. With regard to the principle comments, it noted the lack of regulation and internal contradiction of the material and the lack of explanation regarding the replacement and introduction of new institutes. She pointed out the existence of numerous errors in the text of the law, despite the predicted elimination of errors that were introduced by the individual novelties of the law. It also noted that, despite the envisaged publication on the websites in order to reduce the cost of maintaining the publication of individual documents in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the representative of the Service also pointed out that the text of certain provisions of the proposed law deviated greatly from the nomotechnic guidelines. It further explained in more detail the extensive comments to each article. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology explained the reasons why the Government does not support the bill and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. The short discussion highlighted the complexity of the matter under consideration and the many conflicting interests of market stakeholders, while at the same time expressing the need to prepare as soon as possible a new proposal for a law that would adequately protect all market stakeholders. On the basis of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government and the debate, the Committee voted on a proposal for a decision that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights was not suitable for further consideration and adopted it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the Magi bill. Matthew Tonin's opening remarks on the mother body's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u4	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! With the amendment of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, Nova Slovenija wanted to better regulate the area. If we have authors and creators on one side, that is, those who create, we have listeners, viewers, users, that is, those who use these services. Between these two groups, we have special organisations called collective organisations. These organisations, however, are responsible for collecting, collecting and distributing money from those who benefit from these services. We meet many of these things daily in the field, especially those we organize any event in the way that after the events we receive an account where we are charged with the use of songs and other copyright services. This area has also been sought by many, our government, your government, and once again, no one has succeeded. This is why we have tried to tackle these things in New Slovenia, to organize them ambitiously, and for this we have spent the entire summer. When you were second on vacation, we worked all August to make this law, meet with collective organizations, write articles and so on. What were our three key proposals, which I hope you also agree that they are difficult to oppose? Our first change was that we wanted to limit the cost of operating these collective organisations, such as SAZAS, IPF and other organisations. We have tried to limit their costs to 20% of the money they collect or to a maximum of EUR million. I am sure that this is a good thing for those who create it, because less than the costs of these organisations, the more money remains to be distributed to the authors. And if the lower costs of these collective organisations are also smaller accounts of users and organisers of the various events. That was the first news we introduced. The other news is that we wanted to introduce a single account of these collective organisations. If you organize a fire party today, you will most often receive an account from SAZAS, an IPF account and other organisations. Many people don't know why so many different accounts, so we wanted to force all these organizations to give a single account, so the user pays only one account. The third thing we've been trying to introduce is discounts on charity events. Why? You have fireflies, you have other festive concerts where they don't actually raise enough money to cover the costs and then these bills are just an extra burdensome cost. This is why we have proposed automatic discounts on all the 50% charity events. These were our proposals that we made in the context of those changes that our government has already tried to make, those changes that your government has tried to make, but this law does not somehow come into the parliamentary procedure. Let's ask ourselves why not. I am convinced that this is because there are many lobbying in this area. When we went to this law in New Slovenia, many warned us, "you are going down to a dangerous area, these are people who have a lot of money and can destroy you very quickly". Nevertheless, we went into this change, but you could see how and how these lobbyings affect. They went to all the parliamentary groups and convinced you that our proposal was not good, that it was flawed, that it needed to be complemented in such a way and in a different way. They have done everything to ensure that nothing changes because the current situation corresponds to some because millions are thus exhausted. And that's wrong. That is why you have today once again the opportunity to take a counter decision to the one adopted by the Committee on the Economy that our law is not suitable for further consideration. We claim it is appropriate, and today you have the opportunity to confirm it. Finally, he gave us the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Kert, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u6	Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members, all present, a beautiful greeting on my behalf as well! I would like very briefly to present the Government's position. Above all, I would like to point out in the beginning that, as a representative of the Government and the whole Government, we are aware of the vital importance of creativity and creativity for our society as a whole. Therefore, the area of intellectual property law is one of the key pillars of the national economy and innovation. Sectors based on intellectual property rights have already generated more than a third of all jobs and more than a third of the gross domestic product of the Member States of the European Union. We must therefore allow Slovenian creators the optimum conditions for their operation. With this objective, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, together with the Office of Intellectual Property, has tackled the most pressing issues of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. These included, in particular, questions raised by certain holders of copyright and related rights and the public concerned. The aim was to submit to the National Assembly a proposal for an amendment to the ZASP, which would be as coordinated as possible and would benefit from a high level of support from both the profession and the public concerned. The result of these efforts was the publication of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions, which we published 1. 8. 2013 on its website. This working text was the basis for the drafting of this law that you have before you today. Unfortunately, this law, which has been in the procedure, has not yet taken into account the further steps that have been taken in coordinating all these interested groups, as well as the nominal and all necessary adjustments to the law, so that the law can be considered. It is noted in the Government that such a text of the proposed law is not suitable for adoption and is not supported. At the same time, I would also like to inform you that, despite the fact that we have continued to coordinate with the interested public and other stakeholders in the process, we are discussing the possibilities of preparing a new proposal for the amendment of the ZASP law as soon as possible, so that we can put it into the procedure of the National Assembly and thus be satisfied with what is being pointed out by the proposers of this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you so much for your words and welcome everyone together! We have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which has been tabled in the Parliamentary procedure by the New Slovenia Group. We all know very well that for some time now, in fact, more or less intensive actions have been taking place for several years to change this law. Last year, Minister Žerjav also made a major effort to implement this challenging project, but with respect for the coordination with many stakeholders, which took a long time, he was finally unable to implement it due to the early change of government. The proposed novel summarises last year's solutions in the main part and also sets out to be reintroduced. In the opinion of the profession, as we have heard, most of the solutions are good, but some are not entirely appropriate, others are missing again. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also heard arguments from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which pointed out shortcomings in the transposition of directives and certain inconsistencies between articles. We also listened to the State Secretary's assurances from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, who said at the Committee on the Economy that they are already preparing and inter-departmentally coordinating their amendment to the law, which we can expect in the National Assembly no later than the first half of next year. Until the substantive solutions contained in this novel, which is likely to end our legislative path today, we will not be particularly determined this time. However, I would strongly recommend to the Government that it adhere to its promises regarding deadlines and that it also take into account the basic orientation, that the law facilitates and simplifies the work of authors of all areas of activity, from music to literature, from theatre and dance, to design, to short-circuit authors from a wide range of areas that are not only affected by this law, but also have an important impact on the conditions of their work and on the development of concrete activities. Don't forget, please, a respected government, two more, to protect, in an important part, Slovenian copyright work, which, in truth, is not exactly comparable to the authorship of any other language or country. And secondly, keep in mind, when preparing the novel Copyright and Related Rights Act, that you will indeed create favourable conditions with it, especially for young authors, that young people as authors will become more easily established and that they will not run to others, more profitablely safer, jobs and others abroad. And keep in mind the responsibility that young, uninhabited Slovenian creators will be better motivated through new marriage solutions and that they will be better able to prove themselves than ever before. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that some of the solutions in the proposed novel are good and should be taken into account when the amendment of this law is announced by the government. In view of the numerous comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service in the Slovenian People's Party, we support the view of the Committee on the Economy, expecting the Ministry of Justice to implement not only a meeting with stakeholders as soon as possible, but to introduce a new law into the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we agree with the opinion of the parent working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We have already assessed in our parliamentary group that the proposal for a law is inconsistent in the sense that in this rather difficult material, the applicant has not included adequate protection for all market participants, such as authors, collective organisations and consumers. According to our conduct, the proposal for a law, which we have received from the competent Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, is only a correction of the bill this year. It does not introduce sufficient copyright and related rights within the framework of internal regulation and harmonisation, nor does it introduce appropriate meaningful guidelines, including European guidelines. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service contains a number of comments both of the general nature and of the concrete and, last but not least, of the nomotechnic nature, which indicate a very poor regulation and internal non-conformity of content. The opinion of the Government and the Council of Justice is also negative, explaining that the tariff regime is quite flawed and that it is likely that, in practice, they would encounter a lot of difficulties in terms of reaching compromise solutions. The Commission of the State Council has delivered an opinion of approval, but we do not agree with their arguments in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u12	Say good-bye again! In Novi Slovenije we have invested a great deal of energy and effort in preparing changes to this amendment of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. We met with representatives of a number of collective organisations, with representatives of musicians and other creators, even with representatives of bands of musicians and so on. Those of you who tell us that this marriage is under-conformed, I'll say the following. I want to see how and how you will coordinate and talk to all these people. A lot of people have already tried, a lot of energy has been invested in this, but these are so different and so conflicting interests that it is impossible to draw up such a law that all stakeholders will be satisfied. It is only necessary to aim to satisfy as many of these stakeholders as possible. You need to understand that there is even one organisation – and I will now point out SAZAS, where even within this organization people are fighting and dividing themselves into those who are bigger and more important musicians, and those who are smaller who have less compositions and so on. And to coordinate these interests, believe me, is very difficult. That is why we have written the law in such a way that we have tried to find a variant that has so far been harmonised to the greatest extent possible. We found a draft that was also prepared by a ministry with which almost all but one organization or group agreed. Then we added three more things that are really hard to oppose. I find it difficult to see in the National Assembly anyone who would object to the cost of operating these collective organisations, because this is what everyone gets, from authors to users. I also find it difficult to see Members who would oppose a single account, but it is about reducing administration and making matters more transparent. I would also like to see a hero who would oppose discounts in charity events. Once again, I will say that in the New Slovenia Group, we have also tried to help the current government, including the current coalition with this bill, because I am sure that this government will not be able to reconcile these issues as well. You will remember this in a few months, although some changes are now being announced and very small changes have been made so far to comply with the directive, and all other materials are not yet being caught by the government and I guarantee you here today that it will not, too, because the interests are so different and so contradictory. For this reason, we were prepared to take this burden on ourselves, so that those ugly blows would fall on us, but this government coalition would have only had the opportunity to confirm, accept, and in some ways have Pilate washed its hands, if that is what New Slovenia has proposed, but we have done something, we have taken a good step forward. I thought it was a very interesting debate on the State Council. The State Council has upheld this law. He may also have been supported because he received strong support on a committee where economics, or those representing economic interests in the State Council, are primarily sitting. I will not forget one of the good thoughts of one of the state councillors who said: "Although I do not agree with all the details and although I think that the law would be improved, I support these solutions because it is a step forward." Once again, honourable Members and Members, please consider the Committee's proposed decision and vote by giving this law a free path forward. Solutions with which you are not satisfied can be complemented in the next parliamentary procedure. We have already taken a number of comments from the Legal and Legislative Services into account by preparing amendments, and we would also be working on this in order to improve matters. If I finish. I would like to see that, after all the efforts we have made in this law, this House recognises this effort and recognizes this law as a step forward, as a step towards better resolution and support of this matter. Otherwise, you will send a very bad message, namely that members of the opposition can work abnormally, we are preparing laws, but they are being rejected by the coalition due to prestige.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Aljoša Jerič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Your Honor! On 30 October, the Committee on the Economy, as its parent working body, addressed the proposal for amendments to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members, with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. In Positive Slovenia, we agree with some of the objectives set out by the bill's representative in the introduction, but we join the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government's opinion that the proposal for a law in a number of articles is flawed and for some of the proposed solutions are incomplete. Since the amendments could not be corrected until they become consistent, in Positive Slovenia, as we have done in the Committee in the National Assembly, we will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Therefore, by rejecting the bill in Positive Slovenia, we commit ourselves to bringing these necessary changes back to this coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you. The following will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, representatives of the Ministry of the Economy! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is a very important law, and we are also aware that the existing law is extremely weak and I think it would be a time for the Government and the Ministry of Resources to take seriously the preparation of the new law. On the Committee on the Economy, we somehow received the Ministry's promise to try to write a new law by April. The fact is that in fact all stakeholders in the existing law are dissatisfied and I think that this is a very important material that requires a professional approach in particular. In view of the meetings with all the participants that our parliamentary group has had at a given moment and even before the time, we estimate that it is actually possible to prepare a new, quality law by the month of April, that the differences between the participants are not very much, some of them, and the Slovenian Democratic Party calls for a serious approach to this law, but above all that a professional decision should be made on these matters at a crossroads. We expect the government to follow what it has promised at the Ministry of the Economy. In the SDS, we will support such a proposal that will allow the protection of all market participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Smodiš will present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All present good morning or good day! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the Committee on the Economy's conclusion that the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which was tabled by the Group of Members and Members of New Slovenia, is inappropriate for further consideration. On the proposal for a novelty, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly delivered an opinion containing a number of comments which could not be corrected by amendments. On a proposal with 48 articles, she gave an opinion on Article 35. Most of it is of a substantive nature and also raise important constitutional issues. Since the drafter took the bulk of the content after one of the draft laws prepared by the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology, the legal opinion also gave an important warning to the Ministry in preparing further amendments to this law. We also oppose the proposal in the Group of Social Democrats for substantive reasons. Among them, we would like to highlight the warnings of the author of the Slovenian music repertoire, join in their efforts to raise the level of music as culture and music as an economic activity to a level that would satisfy both the holders and the users of rights, while at the same time at a level that would be in favour of Slovenian creativity, Slovenian language and higher basic music and language culture. In order to follow these principles, we agree that it is also necessary to ensure the transparent and fair functioning of all collective organisations. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a amendment to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, in which it has only classified the provisions necessary to comply with the European Directive. We welcome the decision to eliminate large-scale changes and only make the necessary changes to the process. In the past, we have seen many proposals when a host of new and controversial solutions have been hidden behind the scenes of so-called coordination with European legislation. The next step is to make major changes. In the Group of Social Democrats, we expect the proposer to submit solutions to the National Assembly, which will to the greatest extent reflect the expectations of both authors and performers of Slovenian and musical works and creators of Slovenian film and other works of art. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the decision on the inappropriateness of the proposal for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u20	Mr. President, good day to you all! In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we have carefully reviewed the content of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which was tabled on 18 September by a group of Members of the Parliament and Members of the New Slovenia, with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. The law was introduced into the legislative procedure following the press conference organised by the NSI Group 17. Seven. 2013 The content of this press conference is also accessible through various web media as well as via the website of New Slovenia, where it is written that NSI will try to break SAZAS and IPF monopoly. The NSI would thus try to design a solution where authors will be paid fairly for their work, while on the other hand the users of works of art or music will also be satisfied. In the second set of promises, NSI will advocate the introduction of a single account in order to limit the use of funds for the own functioning of these collective organisations when amending the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The Head of the NSI Group also announced that they would propose lower prices or discounts in the new law when it comes to charity and non-profit events. After reviewing the content of this law or of the proposed amendments, we must point out that our position, i.e. the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, coincides with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, inter alia, stated that the text of this proposal is, with the exception of a few minor additions and amendments, similar to the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, prepared by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and adopted by it on 1. 8. 2013 published on its website. We fully attach to the Government's opinion. We cannot tell the proposer that he has failed to fulfil his promise to try to solve problems in the field of copyright protection in connection with the operation of collective organisations, although the solutions proposed by NSI in the second set of promises are the introduction of a single account, the introduction of lower prices or discounts when it comes to charitable and non-profit events, may not be poor, it is not to ignore the comments made by the Government, nor the rule of law. Moreover, there is no disregard for the comments of the stakeholders concerned by the matter. The solutions proposed are nomotechnically inadequate. Although a number of amendments had been proposed by the proposer before the meeting of the parent committee, the inconsistencies of the nature were such that some amendments could not be eliminated, as the Legislative and Legal Service had confirmed. We will not support this bill because of all the above-mentioned proposals. Since we are aware of the importance of better regulation of the operation of collective organisations in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we expect the Ministry of State to approach the preparation of a new law as soon as possible, which will better regulate the relationship between authors, collective organisations and users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you, too. This is the end of the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. The proposal for a decision will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that is to say, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the enforcement of public funds rights after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u22	Hello! Honourable Members and Members, Honourable President of the National Assembly. I am pleased that today you have before you the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, the first law in the package of recasts of social legislation. The next key law follows this law. With these two laws, we are actually on the road to re-establishing social legislation, which has severely cut into our social state in 2012. That's when we promised to make an evaluation. This is also what the RS Institute for Social Protection has done. The corrections you have before you relate mainly to the findings of the Institute and also the social work centres. In doing so, we did what was possible under given financial conditions. With the funds we have provided, there are few, 10 million euros here is only for social transfers, while we have also provided 20 million for student nutrition, as well as in other areas such as youth scholarships, for which there is sufficient funding in the next budgets, and we are talking about some 18 million euros here. The key purpose of this law before you is, above all, to achieve a more equitable way of awarding public funds in a different way. At the same time, we also introduce simplifications in the allocation of rights. There is a simplification in front of you concerning the subsidy for lunches and lunches, where parents will no longer have to apply for special applications, but will take place automatically, given the role they have in relation to the child supplement and the state grant. These changes are the first, and in the following year they are followed by simplifications for other rights. One of the key things that awaits us in relation to social legislation is to burden people and social work centres. Key changes in the ZUPJS relate mainly to the consideration of income in the allocation of annual allowances, i.e. in the case of children's allowances, state scholarships, grants for kindergartens, where we will take much more into account the real picture of income and not as before when even pre-existing family incomes could apply and it has not been taken into account that, for example, unemployment occurred at that time. This change will have a very important impact on the level of all these rights for our citizens and citizens. The taking into account of assets and savings in financial social assistance is also substantially changing. This will open a round of recipients and achieve a fairer way to allocate public funds. Changes in this law also bring a new scale of child allowances and state scholarships, which will be taken into account from 1. 1. 2014 because we are introducing the possibility of obtaining a scholarship for underage students and equalising the level of the child supplement for all children. At the same time, we excluded 20% of the child supplement from the income to be taken into account in the family. We have also exempted in this income an increase of 30% in the child allowance in the case of a single parent family. We have also adopted an amendment, where we also exclude from this income an allowance for the child allowance received by families who do not have children involved in public kindergartens. At the same time, it is important that student work is also recognized differently, i.e. student income in the income of the family. The solution before you actually assumes that most families will no longer be counted in their available income, except in cases where someone earns much more than the average of their student work in our country. Changes in student and student lunch subsidies and student lunch subsidies take over the transitional provisions of the School Diet Act in this law, which is significantly more suitable for students and students, because they will not, as I said before, invest in the application. Even when paying for kindergarten, this right will no longer be allocated only for the calendar year, but for one year to relieve parents of their investment, as well as social work centres. We also introduce basic health insurance for foreigners who have a residence permit, which is our duty. This law is essentially linked to the Social Protection Act. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And you should read it together. [[...]] Thank you for supporting these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! The Committee considered the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure, which was also approved by the College. Representatives of the Government, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the State Council and representatives of civil society participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons and a number of comments from the interested public. On the basis of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, amendments were tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, which were also adopted by the Committee. The Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons supported and made some concrete comments. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative stressed that the two proposals for social legislation were substantively linked and therefore gave some general substantive emphasis and amendments. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out in his presentation that the enforcement of rights from public funds is still regulated by different laws, which still makes it impossible to be transparent. At the beginning of the debate, some discussers highlighted the seriousness of social reforms and drew attention to the effects that would not be real in a few years. In the discussion below, some members of the Committee and other discussers also drew attention to some open issues concerning the provision of as equal conditions as possible for obtaining rights from public funds for all social groups. Some members of the Committee expressed doubts about the realistic financial implications of the law, as prepared by the Ministry in the introduction of the bill, and pointed out the increase in the number of beneficiaries for certain social benefits. They also pointed out the complexity and incomprehensibility of the provisions of the law for persons exercising certain rights from public funds. Representatives of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia explained that they have been actively involved since the beginning in the adoption of social legislation, both during the public debate and later as legislation changed. They highlighted the problem of volunteer trainees and the question of determining the basic amount of minimum income to be coordinated according to economic growth. The Committee adopted the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the proposal for the amendment of the representative of the Association for the Family to a favoured society. A complementary bill has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you, too. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you. The amendments to both laws are based on the professional evaluation of the implementation and the effects of the laws, and also on the observations of social work centres and the Ministry itself. First, it should be pointed out that the range of beneficiaries is extended to both monetary social assistance and a protective allowance. There is a significant increase in savings that are not included in the assets that are the basis for determining the eligibility of these two rights. In the case of a protective supplement, the price rises from the current €795 savings to €2 000,500, in the case of a single person, and in the case of a family or two adults, the price rises from the current €194 to €3 000,500. The savings of pensioners are not intended for luxury, but for covering life’s pressing needs: for heating, for wintertime, and also for housework. There are cases where a pensioner with no assets and a pension of 300 euros was not entitled to a protective allowance because he had too high savings. He splintered for his funeral. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is therefore right and fair that such savings are not taken into account in determining the eligibility of the protective allowance. The protective supplement is an area where the largest rash was eligible. On the one hand, this was due to a low limit on what is included in the property and, on the other hand, to a deliberate waiver of the beneficiaries of this right due to the registration of the prohibition of the disposal and the burden of immovable property. The novices are solving this in such a way that the limitation on the inheritance of the property of the person receiving the protective allowance can be limited to only two thirds of the value of the aid received. This restriction will also apply in the event of the eligibility of the exemption of payments relating to the family assistant. The return of financial social assistance received is also very difficult. Both laws are closer to everyday reality in other ways, namely, in determining the eligibility of a child's allowance, the State grant and the reduction of a child's pay will take into account the current income, a more favourable way of taking into account income from a student's work and the family's income will no longer be counted as a whole child's allowance. Moreover, credit will not be counted as an asset or savings if it is exclusively intended for the purchase or construction of a residential unit. All of this will have a positive impact on the family’s inclusion in the income class in the grant for kindergarten and state scholarships, and the situation of large families will be improved if they receive cash social assistance. Let me conclude with the rights we know from health insurance, which are now being abolished and placed and re-ordered in the social rights system. It is a funeral and post-mortem, which will no longer be a universal right but is bound to the economic status of an individual or to the condition of eligibility for a protective allowance or monetary social assistance, and these two benefits will not be subject to inheritance restrictions. There are some controversy in public around this. In our parliamentary group, however, we have assessed that the new regime follows the principle of the social state and is fairer. In the DeSUS Group we will support both novels. In addition, in the DeSUS Group, we greatly appreciate the courage of the Minister, who, in this difficult financial state of the country, has sought to make at least the most urgent changes in the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits, which will certainly contribute to improving the situation of the most vulnerable groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The law on the exercise of rights from public funds was a time bomb, which did not explode at the time of adoption, but only with the entry into force of its provisions. Only then did it show how devastating it was to reach into the budgets of families, especially those with underage students and older ones who were recipients of a protective supplement. As a result of this law, many have come to the brink of poverty, which is why we Christian Democrats wanted to draw attention to the recent urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In Novi Slovenije, we had already pointed out in advance the unacceptable withdrawal of state scholarships to underage students. For more than two years, we have persisted in striving for this injustice to be rectified. We welcomed this proposal of the novel, but immediately received a bitter taste. The government is proposing that underage students be reduced in the amount of the child supplement when receiving half of the grant. We're out of words here. In the experience of the unfulfilled promises of Minister Svetlik that children's allowances will be raised accordingly to young students who have been deprived of a state scholarship, we are very distrustful of the Minister's current promises that family budgets will not be affected. In Novi Slovenija, we also gave up the protection allowance for all the victims who were afraid of keeping their homes. After reporting to the media, they were expected to receive security supplements of around 50,000 before the law was enacted and 11 thousand upon its entry into force. The numbers speak for themselves. In our opinion, the novelty brings some good minor changes and corrections. The general public also believes that solutions are going in the right direction, but they are insufficient. Retired, too. Christian Democrats share concerns with the Legislative and Legal Service, which has already warned several times that the system of enforcement of rights from public funds is regulated in several laws and is therefore too complicated. In Nova Slovenija, we note that after all these changes, even the right teaching person cannot calculate how much money is eligible under all laws, for example. For us, that's unacceptable. Social work centres also have major difficulties in processing complex applications and in obtaining and verifying too much data. The overly expensive information system has enormous shortcomings and is too slow, too unusable. This is also pointed out by the Ombudsman that many have been left without rights because of this. We wonder who's in the interest of getting the system so complicated and making it impenetrable. Certainly not for citizens and citizens. Because we want to be constructive, we have also proposed an amendment to Article 4 proposing an equalisation of the situation of investors who solve the housing issue by renting a bank loan to purchase a real estate with those who resolve the housing issue by renting an apartment. The amount of the rent is intended solely to resolve the housing issue and, in our opinion, to be exempted from the total available income of the applicant's family, as well as the amount of the bank loan. The law will be supported by Members of the New Slovenia, while at the same time calling on the Ministry to prepare, as soon as possible, concrete simplifications of social legislation that will clearly and fairly regulate this area. We can't say that about the current situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you. Ms Maja Dimitrovski will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! It is difficult for us to expect a new law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which is part of the so-called social protection legislation. This is a matter of urgent change, as certain anomalies have emerged after the law has been enacted and have not been prepared for by the legislator and the social work centres. Even before the implementation of social protection legislation, I would like to see a comprehensive evaluation or so-called pilot project in our country in which areas this legislation has not been consistent. As it is said, these are urgent corrections and improvements made on the basis of the Social Protection Institute's report, which analysed the implementation of the law in a thorough manner and highlighted the need for two substantive changes, namely a new scheme of the field of scholarship, which has a bearing on changes in the area of payment of the child's allowance and financial social assistance, and a new arrangement for taking account of the actual situation of the individual's or his household's income. I will not touch on further interventions in the sectoral legislation affected by the Public Finance Balance Act, the Road Transport Act, the School Diet Act and others. I will stress the essence of the novel, which brings a lot of improvements in these difficult times, because the coalition has decided that there will be no further interventions to the social state in this place. Let me stress that we are improving the material situation of single-parent families, as we are introducing an increase in the allowance for single-parent families per child for cash social assistance and taking into account only the work of the child allowance under other rights under this law. For example, a kindergarten subsidy now takes into account the total child allowance as income and, as proposed, it will not take into account the allowance for single parent families and 20% of the first child allowance in the first class and 22,86 euros in the first class. We are improving the material situation of older recipients of social transfers, since for permanently unemployed or unemployed persons over 63 years of age in women and 65 years in men or families with such a person, we no longer take into account the single person's money of up to EUR 2 000 500, but EUR 3 000 500 per family. In doing so, I should stress that we are increasing the weight of the second adult and introducing a free mindset of the centres to take account of the real estate in the granting of monetary social assistance or a protective allowance. We improve the material situation of families with children in education, as we also introduce state scholarships for underage students in half the amount that applies to full-year students or students, maintain a higher amount of children's allowance for underage students and maintain the current system of co-financing of school and student diets as set out in the School Food Act. We are improving the material situation of large families as we raise the amount of savings that are not counted in the income situation of the family, where we raise the EUR 2 000 500 threshold from the previous 500 Euros, we increase the weight for the second adult, we introduce the consideration of only part of the child allowance in determining the eligibility of other rights under this law. In spite of the urgent changes to the law, I would point out that legislation is complex, perhaps in certain parts it is overrated, so in the Positive Slovenia Group we expect that this approval of the law will only begin a process in which we will jointly prepare legislation that will make the beneficiaries more friendly, clearer, making the decisions of the competent institutions more up-to-date and, above all, correct. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia we will support the amendment of the law and the proposed amendment of the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With the proposed amendment, as has been said several times today, the government wants to correct all the content of the law, which has proved inadequate within one year and a half since the implementation of the new social legislation, as it has caused many negative consequences to the most vulnerable groups. The purpose of the amendments to the law was, therefore, to simplify this complex and unfair system in order to ensure greater transparency and to ensure that all rights financed from public funds are regulated in one place. After one year of implementation, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection carried out a detailed analysis of the consequences of the new social legislation and found many Please, President, if Thank you very much, colleagues, for your kindness. [[...]] [[...]] After one year of implementation, the Social Protection Institute found a number of irregularities or illogicalities and shortcomings in this law. That's why the government wants to fix these things, but we think the government here has been pretty inconsistent. The changes do not resolve the pressures of some important groups, but by correcting the situation of some, they interfere with the situation of others who are now making this new social legislation or correction worse. Social issues remain and this is resolved in different laws. This prevents transparency. The applicant highlights the many positive consequences of the changes, i.e. higher and more extensive rights. However, it is worth noting that the financial implications of all the changes combined are not for the budget. Even more so, taking into account the effects on health bills, all recipients together will receive less public funding than they are now receiving. This is said to be careful and fair when assessing the amendments to this legislation and to say everything. Unlike that some who get more to pay for these rights by others who get less, this equation does not work out. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the situation of persons in institutional protection, i.e. persons who are in nursing homes. These are not eligible for a protective supplement, resulting in higher financial burdens and pressure on homes for the elderly. The Community of Social Institutions points out that the financial consequences of covering the protection allowance for pensioners who are elderly in their homes are completely misjudged by the applicant. The government or the ministry assesses this financial impact to some 60 million, while specific data from individual homes collected at a social welfare institution or community show that this financial impact would be only a million euros. It is therefore very sad that the law denies equal treatment to all pensioners, referring to the wrong financial consequences. Nevertheless, because of some positive solutions, we will support or not oppose the change of law. However, because we believe that the system will continue to be unjust and imprecise, as many have already called on the Government before me to prepare as soon as possible comprehensive changes that will in fact be simple, transparent and, above all, fairly regulate all rights from public resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u34	Hello again! Your Honor! The new social legislation began to be implemented in early 2012. Under the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, Slovenia has established the types of remuneration, subsidies and payments that are taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. The law also introduced a single entry point where the social benefits provided by the State to recipients and families are decided in one place. This enabled a full view of the individual’s situation. At the time of the adoption of the law, Dr. Svetlik, then, said that after one year of law enforcement, a comprehensive analysis should be carried out and possible shortcomings could be addressed. We have introduced a legal, comprehensive reform, the consequences of which could not be fully foreseen at the time of the adoption of the law. In the SD Group of Members, we are pleased to see that, despite such tight conditions, we are now addressing the greatest shortcomings of social protection legislation, a total of €10 million. The solutions stem from the findings of the analysis of the law prepared by the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection and the observations of social work centres, which are the most important operators of the law. The bill before us thus brings about the following important changes. Taking into account the more realistic material situation of investors than so far, when taking into account the data set out in the Income Decision for the previous or the preceding year. In the income of the family, the whole child allowance will no longer be included in the family’s income, but only part of it. There is a more favourable way of taking into account income from student work and all other occasional incomes. A child’s allowance in a single - parent family is increasing. There is a re-introduction of a student scholarship in the middle of the state scholarship, and an analogous reduction is made in the children's allowance for pupils, which was relatively increased at the time of the adoption of the law and the abolition of student scholarships. The sum of both rights will thus now bring a more favourable position for students. The amount of assets not taken into account for the acquisition of financial social assistance shall be increased. The co-financing of school and student diets is also extended by the introduction into this law for the period 2014. In the SD Group, we are aware that a further amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds will have to be adopted in the future, such as, in particular, respect for the obligation to repay housing loans, the entitlement to the protection allowance of persons in institutional protection. However, as the financial consequences of introducing these changes in the current financial situation are too great, this change, unfortunately, cannot be applied. The next step of the changes will also have to go towards simplifying the procedures and writing the law, which will be more user-specific in terms of understanding its content. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that, at a given time, the Government has done the most in the law, so we will also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Kristina Valenčič to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u36	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Just as this call by the National Assembly has experienced a turbulent period since the day we first sat in the parliamentary bench, a similar stormy period has also seen the implementation of the new social legislation, which was adopted in July 2010, and has only started to apply since 1. 1. 2012. Although the Civil Code has not yet existed in that period, it has not been and has not, of course, been involved in the preparation and adoption of social reform, we can agree with the fundamental objectives pursued by the new social legislation, namely the rationalisation and greater transparency of budgetary expenditure in the allocation of social benefits, the prevention of the accumulation of social rights, the reduction of the possibility of exploitation of the system and abuses, the increased targeting and efficiency of social benefits, the establishment of a more friendly, simpler and more transparent system and faster and more economic decision-making on rights. Any change takes time to establish and show its true results and consequences. Some effects, in particular those negative ones, are quickly manifested in practice. After a good year of implementation of the new social legislation, the Institute of Social Security carried out an analysis of these effects at the beginning of this year and drew attention to certain shortcomings and proposed amendments and additions, which we are also trying to follow as much as possible with the proposed amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits, which was also one of our commitments under the Coalition Treaty. I will only mention some of the improvements made by both novels. The material situation of single parent families, senior recipients of social transfers, families with children and large families is improving. The conditions for obtaining exceptional financial social assistance are improving. There is a change in the consideration of income in the allowance for children, the State grant and the reduced payment of kindergarten for persons receiving cash social assistance. A more favourable account is being taken of informal incomes, including student work. There is a free mindset for monetary social assistance and a protective allowance. A more favourable account is also being taken of changes in periodic incomes. The range of beneficiaries of cash social assistance and a security allowance shall be extended by increasing the amount of assets not taken into account for the acquisition of monetary social assistance or a security allowance. In the Parliamentary Group, we support all efforts of the Government to help the weakest, most vulnerable groups of our society. Only those groups must be targeted at social transfers, not those who abuse these rights. That is why we need such provisions of the law, which will allow for the best possible determination of the actual material situation. The solutions we will adopt today certainly do not solve all the problems and hardships of people who are even deeper in these times of crisis. But they are the best we can do in the country's given financial capabilities. Members and Members of the Civil Code will be supported by the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Jakob Preseknik, who will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We will not oppose this amendment of the law in the parliamentary group, as it brings some of the corrections made when we adopted the law, which we then opposed because it was unfair and then in vain we warned of the inadmissibility and inadmissibility of certain novelties and unreasonable decisions. The biggest injustice at that time was the forfeiture of the rights acquired to the recipients of state pensions. We are pleased that, on the other hand, the re-implementation of scholarships for underage students has taken place. One of the mistakes we have been alerting in the adoption of the law at the time was too fast to introduce changes, which has been confirmed by the fact that we have subsequently extended the deadline twice for the implementation of the new legislation. At that time, we have warned again about the new tasks and the insufficient number of experts at the social work centres. Therefore, in the SLS Group, we really hope that the promise to justify the amendment of this legislation, which the Minister has already announced next year, will be fulfilled and that there will be clarification and simplification of the obligations of social work centres in relation to the deadlines for individual procedural actions. While we respect the efforts announced by the Minister regarding amendments to the provisions aimed at improving the situation of families, of course, in the context of the financial situation of the country, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We also support more up-to-date data in the allocation of child supplements. There is also a partial improvement in the problem of the recovery of social assistance or the protection allowance and the prohibition of the disposal of property, as it is established for a longer period of eighteen months, the period of receipt of the aid as the basis for the recovery or three years of receiving the aid as the basis for the seizure of property. Unfortunately, for many who have already given up a protective allowance or social assistance, this is too late. In view of the many changes and the fact that in small steps the wrong directions set out in the original provisions are being corrected, it is impossible to calculate and fully know what adjustments for individual rights and their benefits mean at all, whether they are really less complex procedures – and most importantly, whether rights will be more justly measured and received by all those in need of assistance in a timely manner. We have justifiably opposed the law in 2010, and due to some positive changes we will support this time and the amendments to the law. However, I would like to point out that, since I have already discussed on the parental committee, the overriding of not only this law and the lack of objective data on the financial situation of individuals so that social transfers are also more easily and fairly defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20 November 2013 marked "new". I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the members of the coalition and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present! Notwithstanding the fact that we are discussing the amendment to Article 4, I must somehow express my disappointment at the fact that we are considering a very important law that will have a major impact on people, especially the most vulnerable groups, and that the hall is almost empty. But when we talk about our cousins and those who are ringing in our heads, we are able to discuss this for hours in a crowded full - time hall. However, I welcome this law, I welcome this evaluation of social reform, and I think that we should evaluate all the laws we adopt in our country in this way. Of course, first of all it is necessary to say hello, and here I would like to take advantage of the fact that I have the floor to give citizens some clever advice. Grants for underage students may be granted after a new one or those eligible for them as early as December 1st of this year. This is a positive one, which I think will also improve the social situation of our students. The Single Parent is already 1 in 5 in Slovenia and it is right to think about this vulnerable group with this change. All that the minister sent to the National Assembly today is to say hello. Of course, this cannot be settled because of the public financial situation. New Slovenia proposes that the rents be included in this. I cannot support such a proposal because I think it would have had too much public financial influence. But I will support the amendment of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you, too. The warning was truly well-intentioned, so I hope that further consideration will be given. However, it is also very important that there is a great deal of consensus among all the members of the Group. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with co-workers! It is true that the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds is extremely complex and is also extremely complicated. It may be that the complexity of the operation of this law is reduced by this amendment, but it is our belief that we do not have enough. Such legislation must be such that it is truly understood by an average citizen, and especially by those beneficiaries of public funds rights. Let me just remember, and I don't want to ruin anyone's day, to start with this law, that was 1. 1. 2012, what were the problems with the information system. Let's not forget, that's what the Ombudsman warned us about. Yes, the information system is also linked to human rights. I really find it very difficult to understand that we simply do not know how to deal with operators who write such applications so as not to write an application that would be tested and actually operate flawlessly. With regard to this problem and other problems in other areas, I have already proposed to the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration, months ago, that a thematic meeting on information systems should be held which supports the processes for which ministries are responsible. At that time, even the chairman of this committee, Mr Čehovin, agreed and said that he would live up to his promise. Of course I'm still waiting for that. The second thing that was painful at the time of the entry into force of this law was said today, but, of course, the right to state pension was deleted. This has really hurt a lot of people and we cannot deal with this in New Slovenia. Why did we table an amendment to Article 4? Maybe that's it. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats would expect solutions to be only slightly more friendly to families in this novel. True, it is just a cosmetic demonstration of kindness to families, but we would like more. Look, this isn't going to have negative effects on public finances, as Katarina said before. It'll have a positive one. And our amendment will have positive effects. That's probably what we're all looking for. Our amendment is aimed at equating the situation of persons who solve the housing issue by renting a mortgage to purchase real estate, and these assets are not counted as assets under Article 6 of the novel, with those who resolve the housing issue by renting an apartment. Funding for rent also significantly reduces the family’s net income and is intended exclusively to resolve the housing issue. For this reason, we propose an amendment to Article 4 of the Law Amendment amending Article 12 of the Law by exempting the amount of rent paid by a person for the apartment in which he resides from the established amount of income and income. Of course, I invite colleagues and colleagues to reflect on the content that we are talking about, and I ask for the support of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. First of all, I give the floor to Minister Anja Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. However, before I go to the amendment to Article 4 and define it, I might say a few words about what is the key to this reform or these changes, we cannot say reform. On the basis of the analyses that have been carried out, we have made it very clear in the process of these eight months that we will go in the direction of those changes that are most urgent because there is such a financial situation in the country as it is. So we focused on the family. In this study, the situation of single - parent families and multiple - child families was mainly exposed. We have therefore come to this conclusion that the child allowance is the first in a series of rights affecting the allocation of other types of rights, we have excluded 20% of this value and, at the same time, the allowances that the family receives because it is either single parental or has special other circumstances, we have excluded from the available income. This will, of course, mean that the whole scale will move and that families will also be entitled to higher amounts of kindergarten subsidies, which was one of the problems. What we have done in the area of child allowances will affect the eligibility of all other rights, as social legislation is an important order. This is not only about saying 20% is exempt from the child allowance, but it also affects all other rights. In the case of recipients of monetary social assistance, which are the most vulnerable among us, we have raised a weight for another single person. We raised it to make this person more valuable, I think up to €53 will now be eligible, 260 plus 53. Of course, we all agree that it would be much better to raise the minimum income to that calculated value that was the starting point for the initial social reform, which was EUR 288. Unfortunately, we have not been able to do so according to the financial situation, and we are currently at the amount of EUR 265. However, it must be said that, at the time of the adoption of the social reform, this minimum income was substantially raised, since before that it was, irrespective of the good economic situation in Slovenia, EUR 229. When we talk about the level of minimum income, it is important to know that, nevertheless, in some previous period, it has risen substantially in view of the situation in our country in the past. We wanted to give these recipients more access to these rights by taking into account their assets, the savings they have on the one hand, and in particular the families, the children, the single parent families receiving the money social assistance, in the case of two children, I think 106 euros more because we have raised this weight. We were really trying to protect single - parent families and large families on the basis of our analysis. But we failed, it was a wish, but because of limited financial resources we couldn't bring things, and that's two things. The first thing is to return the protective allowance to the elderly in institutional protection. What has happened, we have already debated on the Committee that the Community assessment of social institutions is wrong because a million 200 is at a monthly level. If they gave a protective allowance to people in institutional protection, it would cost us 15 million. However, since this right is also linked to the right to pay the difference to the full value of the payment of health services, in fact our assessment says that there would be 60 million euros. Unfortunately, we don't have these funds right now. First, when the state is better, the protection allowance will certainly be the right that we will settle among the first ones and we will try to give it as it has been in the past. This is about the protective supplement. Another such thing that we have done a lot at the Ministry is to deduct from the family’s available income the value that the family owes to loans to solve its housing problem. We have turned to the two largest Slovenian banks, if they can give us an estimate of the amount of these loans in families with family members up to the age of 44, we have set this limit. And on the basis of these estimates that these banks have made, this would mean an additional value plus EUR 15 million. This is why we did not go into this proposal in order to take into account the loans that families are making to solve their housing problem in order to deduct them as available income. We have only included in the bill that when the bank receives a payment to an individual to account for the settlement of the housing problem, this is not to be taken into account as a family property, because this money will be used immediately for the purchase of the property and that property will be taken into account there. Your proposed amendment does not in fact establish a fair relationship between those who pay the rent and those who pay the credit. Therefore, as the Government at this moment, we must, in particular, oppose such an amendment due to the financial consequences. But this is certainly one of those things that, if we had more financial opportunities, would be in the government's proposal. And even in the coalition, we talked a lot about it because it was kind of a common desire. Perhaps I'd like to say a word about the complexity of the legislation. I agree with you, and this is definitely my commitment. As you yourself have mentioned, due to the complexity or importance of the information system itself in the short term, we have not been able to provide comprehensive legislative revisions by significantly simplifying procedures, as this would have a major impact and should be aligned with the information system. However, this could not be ensured in such a short time. That's why we said that this is the first step, the most urgent thing to give people in this crisis the feeling that the country has not forgotten them in this crisis. However, we agree, if I may say so, to amend this legislation more where we would like to go in order for an individual to have an informational calculation of all the rights that belong to him in the field of social policy. And this is going to be a major change, so that we will actively approach these changes next year in order to then be implemented in the next period. This is certainly an assignment that we are aware of. It is necessary to relieve citizens and citizens or applicants and applicants, as well as social work centres, in order to be able to perform professional work on the ground because they are social workers and not administrators. That's the way this mission is going to go. Nevertheless, I would say that this information system, which we have established, on which some critics have flown, has been awarded the United Nations Prize for the most innovative and efficient database integration system. Also by the international community, the United Nations won a prize this year. It wasn't a cough, we connected, I think, 48 databases. And with such a great deal of food, no one expected no problems when they introduced this reform. We were aware of them, so twice, as has been pointed out, the implementation of the law has also been moved. However, today there are no problems with the information system and its functioning. During this period of operation, most of these problems have been resolved. I also hope that one of the reasons why not all the changes that will be made today by this law will not apply is that they have been confirmed by 1. 1. 2014 is in particular the fact that we need to give ourselves the opportunity to study, study and adapt the information system at social work centres. Therefore, some of the amendments in these two laws are in force by 1. 9th and not 1st. 1. All those requiring greater adjustment are, because in November, unfortunately, we have been moved to 1. 9. since these are rights that are linked and the date from the point of view of connectivity is the easiest for all, this is 1 September 2014 when the rights are decided. But at this point, we made those simplifications that were possible. This is mainly the case with regard to lunch and lunch subsidies in primary and secondary schools, so that in fact applicants will no longer have to submit applications at the social work centre, but will be automatic when the school looks at the records and sees that the individual family or individual is entitled to a child allowance. In view of the decision on the level of the child allowance, the subsidy amount shall be automatically decided and then an appropriate high account shall be issued to the individual family on that basis. This is already the direction indicated, as will other changes in the years to come, so this will go mainly towards simplification. I would also like to say about the financial implications because you mention them many times. I still believe they're positive that no one with these changes is losing. If we look at the items only on the transfer to the socially disadvantaged, this is mainly about monetary social assistance and the security allowance of 10 million in the following year more and in 2015 16 million. These are the grades. The children’s allowance is indeed reduced by 8 million because the amount of the child’s allowance for underage students is equivalent to that of the other children. However, it is urgent to say here that these minors receive state scholarships, their assessment of the financial implications is 18 million. Compared to a 8 million or 9 million reduction in the amount of funds to be allocated to children's allowances, adding 19 million to the other side, there is a plus 9 million, so it's hard to say that these groups are at a disadvantage. We also made calculations for four different types of families when we made these changes: one-parent family with one child, one-year-old high school kid, one-parent family with two children, one-year-old high school kid, another-year-old high school kid, two-parent family with two children, one-year-old high school kid. We did the calculations, and then on the case of whether they have any income or no income, or they have an average income, i.e. a thousand euros net, and in fact they're all on the plus side. For example, if we look at a two-parent family with two children, one elementary school student and one junior high school student, if we look at that they have a thousand euro net income and are without assets, now they get 250 euros, now they're going to get 50 euros more. But if we look at a family like this, for example, to say that they have 50,000 euros in assets, now they're going to get 250 euros, now they're going to get 35 euros more. So it's actually a positive change. This also includes the sum of the money we spend on nutrition after 2015. The School Diet Act, which was adopted, provided for a solution to the food subsidy for 2014 and 2015. This law also introduces this systemically after this period, and the financial implications are only EUR 20 million for the regressive diet of pupils and 12 million for the regressive diet of students. As for the story of the funeral home and the funeral home, it is true that we now receive an additional cost of 4.5 million. The right to a post-mortem and funeral home is no longer a universal right paid by the Department of Health Insurance, but passes under the law under social protection legislation. However, when we discussed this, it was the government's decision as a whole to provide this €4.5 million additionally in the IMF's items so that we can pay it off. So there is no less here or the positive consequences of this law. But I have one more thing to say about the property record, because there has been a lot of talk about social legislation and, above all, the fear of people being deprived of their property. Here I must tell Mr President that the law on succession says that at the end of life, so nowhere and never is the applicant obliged to return anything, that is, the recipient of the financial social assistance, the extraordinary or protective allowance, is in no way obliged to return it, never to return it. His heirs, if they are not in need of assistance, which is in accordance with the law of succession, shall return. So this means that, with these changes that we are now introducing, where it will not return to receive extraordinary financial social assistance if an individual receives monetary social assistance for up to 12 months. So for all those who are already recipients, this solution applies because the law on inheritance and salvation will apply after their death. So all those who have now received this do not need to return, nor has it been necessary now and no need to return with this change. So there is really a lot of fear here, this law shows, as well as the debate on the real estate tax law, that Slovenians have a really specific attitude towards this property, to real estate. So he's here and things have to change. In other European countries, real estate is a source of survival and, in most cases, the recipients of monetary social assistance if they have property, which they also own, are not entitled to such aid, which is intended solely for those who do not have other means of survival, which is, of course, a matter of money social assistance, which is the last form of aid. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I would like to start by saying that the changes to social legislation that we introduced in 2012 were indeed, indeed, a very big deal. Even if you look across Europe, it will be difficult to find a comparable system that combines different forms of both social transfers and subsidies in one place. It is this comprehensive view that has been established, but of course it is complicated. That is why, in my dialogue with Mr President on the Committee, I have somehow joked that this complication can be eliminated by universal basic income, for which I personally believe that the next reform of the social state before us is for a whole range of other reasons. But when you put things together in one place, look, this supply was so big, it was necessary to unify the basics, it was necessary to unify the sources of income, it was necessary to unify the criteria for allocation. That was a huge bite. I have already mentioned that Slovenia had a slightly similar system before its independence. At the time, there was a self-government agreement on social security rights, which combined social transfers in one place. The effects of the current system were positive. After his independence, the system broke down. And every system - pension system, educational system, housing system - has highlighted its way and its view. Therefore, it has been common to note that there is a situation where those who skillfully exploit all the forms of rights belonging to them can also come into a better position than those who work. And this fundamental observation is that the system that we have before us today has been removed. But it is, and I was among those who insisted that we make a kind of pilot before making such a complex change. I was responsible for the fact that the information officer interpreting the Personal Data Protection Act raises serious concerns that such a study can actually be carried out or that we can in some way drive parallel systems. Therefore, there was a way to verify the application of changes to the type of calculations made by the IR. And you know that the IR is a very credible institution that has helped us make changes. It is true, however, that a number of problems have also arisen in the implementation and implementation of the information system. I also personally intervened that there had been a postponement of enforcement because it was aware that there were major problems in linking these 48 databases. But, in the course of the changes, certain things were probably being resolved more quickly also because we – learning by doing, it is said, on the face of the place when we saw what anomalies were – things changed. I think that what the Ministry has done has, first of all, carried out an analysis or evaluation of the implementation of the system and also asked about the practices, prepared a series of changes that have been written in this law and should therefore be welcomed. As it is said, it is also a very important action, since in this acute economic situation we have retained the scope of the changes to social security transfers, the pressure to reduce was very high, in fact this part of the funds is still increasing to enforce these urgent changes, so I should stress once again that these changes need to be commended more. If I go back to the state's pension records. I've heard them many times yesterday, but let's be correct, colleagues and colleagues. State pensions were received by those who did not have their own incomes up to a certain amount. Most of them were not because they never worked in paid jobs. Thus, farmers found themselves in this place many times, and so many times the so - called traditional hosts found themselves in this place. It is true, however, that we must be so correct that Svetlik’s pension law allowed those who had these rights to keep them. But, my dears, you have worked hard, especially the opposition, that the marriage has fallen. And that's what this right came down with. By being correct, the state pension was not a reward for 40 years of work, possibly unpaid work. Many farmers have certainly worked for 40 years, but in this country we do not recognize the unpaid work of women who are regularly employed. As far as NSI's proposal is concerned. Five years ago, I, along with a colleague at the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, did a recent research on poverty in Slovenia between families with children. And it is true, even then, that, in fact, the expenditure from the family budget is on the one hand for rents, which are higher in the poorer, so to speak, we considered as the starting point for the recipients of the first, second class of child allowance, to spend as much as 14% of the available income on the rents of these groups. On the other hand, what the Minister mentioned was that credits are extremely burdensome for those in the so-called lower middle class, which are recipients of the fifth grade of the child supplement, which are burdened by housing loans with their regular payment even at 17% of the available income. Thus, it is necessary to look at these things in a complex way and, as the minister said, in thinking about the future, when we go into change, we will certainly think about it. I'm afraid that's not possible at this point. I will therefore have to vote with regret against the amendment you have tabled, and I will support the amendment tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Article 4 refers to the revenue included in the price for calculating the rights enjoyed by those persons receiving public funds, so I would first try to focus on this content. To begin with, I note that this Article provides for 38 different types of income to be included in the price. And respectable colleagues, this, I think, is one of the first major and major problems of this social legislation, the lack of transparency, the injustices that occur here through this law and through even more basic law. 38 different types of income, the first of which says that all taxable income is included under the law governing income. There are probably some 38 or 50 different species. We've complicated this system to the end. The analysis carried out by the Institute has shown that the problems involved are very serious. People who get decisions get decisions on 5, 10 or I don't know how many pages they don't even read because they're too long, but if they read them, they don't understand them. It was therefore expected that this change would lead to substantial simplification in this part. But they're gone. I think that these changes will further complicate the situation, make the system even more transparent, and that we are setting a number of other exceptions, and that people will even less know whether any right belongs to them and under what conditions this right belongs to them or not. This is my first, main and most important observation, observation or follow-up initiative for changes in this simplified direction. However, I will continue with this complexity of the system itself and may touch upon those statements and praises made by the Minister at the expense of the system on which this law is being carried out, the ISCSD system, which combines 48 different types of records and which has received no prize, the first prize in an international competition. Recently, the Minister said in response to a question from the Member States that there are 11 000 outstanding complaints at the Ministry. There is probably something wrong with this system that after one and a half years of enforcement it still stands at the Ministry, but perhaps today there are fewer such complaints, where the system is so complicated that it cannot absorb them in some decently short time. These people, who have filed complaints, have been waiting for a year to decide on their rights by some system that works fantastically, which has won the first prize. I don't think this system works as well in practice as it does in theory. And now let's imagine another step forward. We recently passed a law in this room, which he proposed in his enthusiasm after the debarcation of procedures, Minister Virant says that officials or state authorities are obliged to perform their own roles instead of beneficiaries or debtors who come to a window to say simply. Now let's imagine the story. Comes, fictionally, John Novak at the window and says, "I am John Novak and in my opinion I am entitled to public funds under this law. Here, fill out my application, get all the information, because the authorities are obliged to obtain it, if other authorities have them, from whoever you want, and I want my right within the time limit set for it, let's say within one month." It won't work. We have complicated the system, so we need to really cut through some new solutions. When these new solutions are sought, I hope that there will also be a solution for this 12th article and that there will no longer be 38 in here on some potential incomes that are included in this censorship, but will rather be written something like this: "There is more than..." And there will be three things that don't count, and everything else will be counted, and we'll make the system much simpler. But we're artists, and we're going to add four new indents with the next amendment, because once in the process we found that someone else had something somewhere else, because we didn't exactly capture it, and here we're not going to have 38 points anymore, but there's going to be 45. I hope and urge the Ministry to take this into account further when preparing these comprehensive changes. However, since you have all talked about everything else, including pension reform and everything that belongs here and does not belong to this article, let me just say a few words about the financial implications. This is one of the content that really hurts me, because in doing so, the ministry or the advocates of the amendments to this law are deliberately missing out on the other side of the story. It is true, Your Honor, and I confess to you, that some groups are improving their position. That's right. We support this, so we will not vote against it. But since we give these groups something, it costs something. Minister Kimma says it's worth something. But the explanation of the law states: "The bill has no negative financial implications for other public funds, it even has a positive effect on the Health Insurance Institute." That's what it says, it costs something, but it's not gonna cost anything. I think it's just math in the style of the government of Alenka Bratušek. It all costs money, but it costs nothing together. This mathematics comes out so that if something costs and increases on some items of the asset, the overall effect is nothing, then to someone else the right, clearly, decreases. And that's all I want from representatives of the government, from the Ministry, from colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, this has to be admitted. As we acknowledge to you that some rights are increasing, which we support, you will have to admit that in some areas rights are being reduced. The question is whether we have now found such a proper balance between where we have increased rights and where we have committed new injustices. And some will feel it on their own skin and on their own accounts. I want us to talk about these solutions to the law in real terms. These are urgent corrections, really the most urgent corrections that could be even better than they are. As has been said many times, we support them, but that is not all. And now we have brought some new injustices into this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Dr. Anya Digač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Ms Romana Tomc, thank you for the proposal on transparency and the determination of Article 12 which revenue is counted. At first, I didn't know if you were against transparency and that you didn't cover all the revenues, but then finally you said that the only way was bothering you. So that this proposal is certainly more than welcome and in the future it will be necessary to think about writing only what is being taken into account, not what is not being taken into account. Perhaps you would, however, be able to reopen the story of Virant and the law as to how social workers will have to fulfill John Novak and everyone else. That law provides for a transitional period and is until 2016 this transitional period. Let us be correct if you say that they will have to do so, tell them that they will have to do so by 2016 because it is a transitional period. The transitional period is precisely because we agree to go with the funds in the new financial perspective on the possibility of calculating these information calculations. So the goal is to make the reform I was talking about in the direction of simplification before 2016 when this is supposed to be in force. The second thing you say over and over again on the committee is that, under the new social legislation, more than one million 350 thousand rights have been decided. A little less than 800 thousand deposits were issued. And these decisions have received less than 3% of the complaints. It's true we have backlogs at the Ministry. It is true, however, that these delays are also due to the fact that they have been intervened in the number of the Ministry of Labour and Employees such as they were in 2012, and that this government has approved as a form of a specific project that we can have an increased scope for lawyers who have an adequate education structure and also the competence to carry out a second level of ZUP, so that they can have increased levels so that those six lawyers we have in the social sector, who are engaged in this, can also be approached by all the others who have an appropriate education at the Ministry, while at the same time we have a limited number for two years of additional jobs to resolve this issue. So we've come to this and we're aware of it. It is only likely that we cannot approach this in the same way that we are always saying that the number of employees in the public administration must be reduced absolutely, that the number of employees in the Employment Service has been reduced by 15%, in view of the overall workforce plan which was recognised for 2013 and that at the same time the waiting period for unemployed persons to have a work plan is extended. It's just not fair. We need to know what that means when we talk about reduction and all that. The fact is that we are solving the problem, 11 thousand complaints are not O.K., we have approached and we are solving this problem. But there is no way you can solve this problem in such a way that you can again and again cut into the number of employees at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and also, if you want, at social work centres, which was in the previous mandate. And first of all, at the rebalancing, we had to raise the cost by 5 million to cover the wages of social work centres. These are the facts. And if we're betting on things and we find things all over again that everything is bad and there's absolutely no good intention in everything, then maybe other things need to be said, but not just what suits anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. I would start with an amendment to Article 4, which I will not support, but the reasons for this are rational. The chairman of the committee said she'd do it with a heavy heart. I think that the social area is a specific area where it is difficult to rule out emotions because it is mostly vulnerable groups of people. The main argument is this comparison, which has already been made twice in the analysis of leases and loans. We have talked about this a number of times, and I have taken this argument as a rational argument, so I have no problem with this. The second thing is legislation itself in the field of social or the intent of this legislation. I had simple expectations about marriages. I expect that the law is enforceable, understandable and upbuilding in this order. It doesn't do me any good if it's understandable, but it's not feasible. And that's exactly what this is about. I absolutely agree with my colleague Tomc, who sees this incomprehensibility and his colleague Horvat has talked about complexity and complexity. If some units are added, then a very simple matter can become complex. But if it's illogically linked, it can get complicated. This law should be understood by the people it is intended for. If they took this law, went before Maximarket, stopped 10 random passersby, they'd be desperate, crying. But those who use it understand it. And I like that. Perhaps, as a suggestion, perfection is always in some simplicity in nature, but I would not want this matter to be sacrificed now on account of purpose or justice, because I agree that it is good and fair. Here the minister herself said that she would be quite involved in this part of the understanding of this law. But I'd like to add something to my scholarships to the students. It bothers me in this room, we always weigh everything with money, every thing is measured by money. When that is enough, the National Assembly is usually full when we talk about banks and more. And this return of scholarships, the intention was already to come back, I very much welcome. Even if it's a total. Now if we add up the scholarship, I don't know, and we're looking at how it used to be, and it's now. But every marriage must also have a deeper component than this mathematical one. It seems very important to me, and I also spoke to the students, and it is very important that someone at the age of fifteen has some of their money. In this way he develops some personal responsibility, has something that is his, and he begins to have it very early. Even if a bigger amount were given to Mom or Dad, it would be a whole other story. And I very much welcome that. So he's going to make decisions when he's fifteen, he's going to create some priorities in life very early. And this is an aspect that we have not talked about, so I would like to expose it, or I would like to make it clear that we are all aware that there is one real meaning in the development of something, something that can only be done in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Actually, I'm going to respond to what the minister said. And first of all, Madam Secretary, I strongly protest that you use words here to bet. I'm not betting on anyone, and even if I point out something more than once, I probably expose it because it's important and because it wasn't solved in the right way. Just because we've recorded the problem and if we don't solve it doesn't mean we can't ever draw attention to it again. So I'm going to point out the same things over and over and over again, and the next time you come, I'm going to point out the same things again because they're not being solved. And I strongly reject such words, we don't bet. That's another thing. You're telling me that I don't understand that it's not until 2016 that we're going to get to that famous provision introduced by Minister Virant. Yeah, it's pretty sad, 'cause we're always doing something here with a fig in our pocket, for stock, in three years. Everyone here brags about how great solutions are adopted by some law. You said well, at least now we know that people should forget about these benefits that are brought to them by the debirocracy of Minister Virantovo. In 2016, a number of changes will be made by then. And something else got in the way. The number of employees at the Ministry of Labour as a user of this law, as someone entitled to funds, is of no interest to me at all. However, because I know the Ministry of Labour, of course, I understand it very well, and I know it, and I agree that there are very few people at the Ministry of Labour, that you are understaffed. But it's not a problem for people, it's a problem of laws like this before us today, which is more complicated every day, and we're going to make it a little more complicated, and we're going to need five more officials to solve it. That's the problem. Let's make the rules simpler and we'll need fewer officials to implement them. So on this side I understand you, but it's not acceptable and you're not solving any things. So this is one more argument that we should do more on simplifying the law and less on how you will do more within the government, within the framework of the human resources plan. I believe you need them for such complicated, impossible, lifeless and incomprehensible laws as this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to an information system that is, in fact, still too complicated. I'm not gonna say it's too expensive, but it's definitely too complicated. I'll tell you about the case. Just yesterday, I was called by a lady who submitted an application for a child allowance in April 2012. It was rejected in June 2012 because the decision covered things that did not belong to family benefits. On 18 July 2012, she lodged a complaint with the Directorate for Social Affairs. The lady got her answer yesterday. She called in the middle like she said, and she got a deaf phone a lot of times, and no one was picking up. That's how she got the call yesterday that she had to prove everything through the register. That's what she filed, and she turned to my office to see if she'd have to wait another year and a half for an answer. Since her child has reached the age of 19, she cannot file an application or application for a scholarship because the initial application for a child supplement has not yet been resolved. In doing so, I remind you that matters need to be really resolved as soon as possible, and this information system must be accelerated. We have warned you that this will not work, the Ombudsman warns. I will keep this matter under review, and at every opportunity, I will warn you of this if the role is not resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Opening login option. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got three more applications. Mrs. Kristina Valenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Many predecessors have warned that we have a complicated system of social transfers. They pointed out the many problems we have in the functioning of the information system, including the poor technical solutions that they assess, and I agree with them to a certain extent. However, I believe that there is no reason for such a situation in incomplete legislation or in incomplete technical solutions, but the reason is much deeper and much more difficult. It is that at the time of growth, at the time of the conjuncture, we have recognised our people's rights, perhaps often not sufficiently justified, and that in all areas, not only in the social field, we have a whole bunch of exceptions that complicate the system. If we only remember accepting the ZPIZ-2 recently, we have tried part of such exceptions in the former coalition – Minister Vizjak has also tried to do so – to relax a bit, but of course that is not possible. Therefore, I am convinced that if we want to take a step forward towards simplifying procedures, not only is it a problem to relieve or simplify administrative procedures, we need to start talking in the direction that Collegiate Montenegrin Meglič has indicated earlier, this is in the direction of UTD, saying universal basic income, how to simplify as much as possible the entire system of rights in this regard. Since the amendment of the ZUP was also mentioned many times and this provision, which in some way imposes on public officials to fill out the application form when the party so wishes, the Minister said well that the social area is exempt or has a transitional period. However, I think that every official has already done so today, so this will not cause too much interference. I am convinced that this society really needs tectonic movements and that we need to start talking and adopting some social consensus on these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must say just one general fact that it has been pointed out so far that, at the time of the adoption of this law, Dr Svetlik, the then Minister of State announced the necessity of a one-year monitoring of the enforcement of the law before the movement and changes begin. I believe that these changes are based on the findings relating to the implementation of this law, and I therefore support the amendments to this law. Surely we should consider that any other change would be necessary to make life easier for people in these times. I simply find it difficult to understand those who constantly appeal to the state of public finances, while at the same time, in the light of every law that we are specifically saving, it is expected that the scope of rights for which we should also have more resources should be increased. Those two aren't compatible. Just as it is not compatible with what we are always talking about how the number of employees in the public sector needs to be reduced, I have also heard in the budgetary debate this information about the 15% reduction in employees and the difficulties in achieving the regular work that individual institutions have to do. But we only pay attention to this moment when, as users, we find ourselves in a situation where we expect our case to be resolved immediately, and preferably as we expect it to be resolved ourselves, and then we are very critical when we think about public servants and public administration, but we have different vats. A typical example for me is this morning's meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, where we are unable to process something that we should process, and some who are very, very principled in nature would sooner agree that 100,000 lawsuits should be filed, while at the same time talking about delays in justice. How compatible these two are, I can't imagine. When there was also a talk about what the level of marriage texts should be and when I heard that the law should be so written that the average person could understand it, I don't know what the language level of the average person is, because the understanding of the laws is also linked to putting one article in the context of the entire text. The spirit of marriage is important. However, clear provisions are needed. Understanding the language is very sensitive. And, I'm sorry, this part, Madam Vice-President, you might want to close your ears a little bit. Last time we heard that the impulse is not human-related – here, now that Mr. Gorenak has arrived, I have a copy of the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary – it's human-related. Yesterday we heard the word "your work" where the word was used for bad deeds. The word "robot" means hard work or pressure and is ancient. This is an illustration of what Mr Horvath said, that the language of law must be such that it is understandable to an average person. We will not reach this average man and reader. However, the fact is that the fundamental democratic deficit in Europe is precisely that legislation should be brought closer to man. Mr Bosic discussed scholarships and child allowances. When we adopted the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, I understood the spirit of this law by applying a single entry point and by taking into account the income of the family. That the family is the one that is also the criterion for the entitlements enjoyed by each family and its individual members from public funds. I agree that it is very important for a young person to learn about independence and how to deal with money early. But then, as explained and as we have been monitoring the law, this matter was that the child allowance is up to the age of 18 and that the child allowance and the state scholarship, I stress, the state scholarship, are being excluded from me, an acceptable solution. It later turned out that the opinion of users was different, and this was the subject of the amended legislation that I can adopt. As it is said, the previous solution was not without arguments on the contrary that could be accepted. What seems unacceptable to me is that some expect their will, their stand alone to be saved, and that everything will be subject to those attitudes. I respect the behaviour, knowledge and experience of individuals in the National Assembly, which they bring from previous jobs, but this does not mean that this is the only opinion and that a different opinion cannot be delivered. And what I am giving the Minister in her position is an absolute support, it would be good for some to be able to balance – because some very much like to talk about balance, their arguments, and to admit sometimes that the opposite party or the law can solve something good. Unfortunately, I must say that I cannot support the amendment of New Slovenia to this article. It would be good, as I say, to re-enact any additional right or more generously support it, only then should it be a little less loud when public funds and public cash are to be charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tomc had a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u62	Yeah, sure. Madam Vice-President, I would like to draw your attention to Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the fact that those who debate can speak only of the items on the agenda. So I would like to ask that when my colleague Potrate specifically warns you to close your ears, that this may not be in accordance with the rules of procedure, and that you do not close your ears, but listen carefully and stop them. What the colleague Potation was doing right now was a little bit of a story, a little bit of a story about yesterday's debate, a little bit like that, so I don't know if it's just a procedural proposal or should I replicate it, because I recognized myself in your debate. And since I still have time in this, I also replicate to you, let this be counted in this second part of the answer. Dear Mrs Potrata, if you thought of me, I have initially said that we will not oppose the law because it contains many good and positive solutions, and I recognise them and I agree with them and say that the Ministry has also taken a step forward here. On the other hand, I also say that this step was small and that more could be done. My debate was, I think, quite balanced. However, if you are thinking of someone else, you will tell them in your next procedural reason or suggestion. Madam President, I am indeed reminding you that when they warn you in advance that they will violate the rules of procedure, you will react.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Although I do not need to cover my eyes or my ears, because I am very closely monitoring what is happening in the hall, I must say that I did not understand this hint of Mrs Potter so poorly. We continue the debate. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have at least three reasons to be satisfied with the three minutes I have left. For the first time since the New Slovenia Group was the only one against Virant's novel ZUP. At the time, we knew that the most difficult cases would still have to be met by investors, first citizens and citizens. That it was actually pure cosmetics and some apparent effectiveness of that novel law, so we were against it. Secondly, I can talk about the amendment to Article 4. And for the third time, most importantly, I am really happy, frankly, Madam Minister, that you and your colleagues have actually thought about the same content as us – New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Rent, why someone rents an apartment. You said what I am truly grateful for is that this amendment is essentially a financial burden of about 15 million. So I can logically conclude that you were in favour of this, but the budget guardian of the Minister of Finance prevented you from doing so because, in fact, the Minister of Finance does not know that it is not easy to get a credit for the apartment today, that it is not actually possible to get it. People aren't creditable, they don't have all the fixed-term employment contracts, so they have an apartment for rent and rent, of course, a monthly cost that belongs to a class 4 account, so it's a cost, and with rent some apartments actually pay a couple of times, twice, three times, five times. Here's the problem. If today's banks worked normally to have you come to the bank's window and say, please, credit, here's my employment contract and so on, so that you can easily get credit, there'd be a lot of people deciding to buy the apartment, we'd have the property, which would benefit the country again, we'd have a real estate market that's practically dead. But the problem is in this banking system. It's a shame the Minister of Finance doesn't understand that. We have, in fact, attached our affection for this law to the adoption of this amendment, which we thought was so logical, and we expected that there would be some agreement on the adoption of this amendment. Now it seems that this consensus will not be what we truly regret. However, I would like to thank the Minister for what she has said in advance for her intention to make changes towards improving this law, of course I wish her a lot of money, efficiency. And when there are good changes, you certainly have our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Yeah. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The fact that my debate was sublime was somewhat exaggerated. After yesterday's meeting and after the discussions of colleagues and colleagues from the largest opposition party, in particular. Madam Vice-President, thank you for understanding that with the rhetorical figure that I have used, I just wanted to point out how delicate the issue of understanding legislation is. And I just responded to Mr. Horvath's debate. Like all the other things I was talking about, the responses to the debates that day or possibly related to some of the language details of the previous day. It is simple, however, that we will never attain the ideal condition for the marriage text to be written in such a way that it is understandable to everyone. However, it is important that they are specific enough to be clear, and above all that they are permanent enough to ensure legal certainty. What needs to be added to the ongoing simplification requirements is a great danger that, due to a desire to simplify, something is overlooked and a legal gap is allowed, which can later be unfavourably resolved for someone. This is a very serious question, and it does not show it to reject just with your left hand or possibly to link it to a foreign attitude towards the speech that has warned of this problem. However, I think that the changes in this law are in favour of removing the biggest or most frequent or most sensitive, for people with the most sensitive problems, but I expect that when the situation in Slovenia is better, any further improvement in the legal text can be made. Of course, it would be most ideal if the circle of those who need social assistance in such or other forms improved due to the improved material situation of the individual family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? Yeah. Mr. Bosic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u68	Apologize first. I used to want to apply for a replica, but a replica is when someone misinterprets, if I read the rules correctly, and I didn't want to abuse because I didn't know if I understood or not. That's why I don't replicate, but I'm gonna say what I said before. When I was talking about marriage and about and this sequence, I said exactly what I wanted, what I understood to be an ideal. And I said that perfection is also in simplicity and that it makes it difficult. However, before that, I had said that the excuse for complexity was justice. So I don't want this to cause us to suffer some kind of justice, at the end of the day it's about transfers, it's about people we have to be fair to. That's one thing. But it's also true that if you just look at an icon, you don't become an icon. That means something has to be done in this direction. It's the ideal of something you're trying to do. When you reach it, it's usually not ideal anymore. There's only so much to explain. But as for all the other things, I think we understood that I was correctly understood, so I wouldn't comment on them again. If the minister is working with the team and she's brought the matter to where she is, which I like very much, then keep her work going and that's it. There's no greater philosophy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a further discussion of the other amendments? I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Who wants to talk about Article 14? He doesn't want to. I therefore put to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Romana Tomc, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I'm just going to use this amendment to say what I imagine under saying that things have to be simpler, more understandable, that people will understand them better. As an example, I will give you the text of this amendment and you will be together with me, I don't know, out loud or each of you will see for yourself whether people can understand this text. But this is what it says, just the amendment, the second paragraph. Other paragraphs remain as complicated as they are. " Notwithstanding Article 23 of the Act, up to and including the year following the year in which the economic growth exceeds 2,5 % of the gross product, nationals of the Republic of Slovenia who fulfil the conditions under this Act and under the law governing the scholarship are entitled to the State grant, and in which the average monthly income per person in the previous year does not exceed 53 % of the net average wage per person in the same period." And then there's a table, there's eight columns and six rows, and in each square there's another number or another percentage. I just wanted to warn my fellow Members and colleagues that this legislation would have to be simplified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u72	I agree, Mrs Romana Tomc, but this amendment is needed mainly because of Zuif, because he introduced these things. So you have to look at the whole thing, and it certainly does when you read it, so I never say no. We still have a lot of work to do in simplifying clarity and, above all, that this legislation, in particular the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, has been designed primarily to define in the same way who are family members and which income is included, which assets are counted for all rights paid on the basis of the determination of the material situation of families. Because of his logic, he brought this to the content of other sectoral laws that now that individual laws are changing, for example, the law on scholarship also affected this law, and now, with this change, those changes in the law on scholarships are being made into this law to ensure perhaps a little more transparency. However, I certainly agree, but it is important to know that somehow all of us who have been making laws in the last 20 years are guilty of the situation in this area. So it is not possible to say that this is just a proposal for a law that is what it is. Even if we look at other laws, it's similar. However, I certainly agree that, as responsible in this area, I cannot avoid this responsibility and that the provisions in the next step will need to be made more clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If he does not, then I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to Article 30. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate article 34 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. I conclude this part of the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE SOCIAL PROTECTION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the government, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! Much has been said about the content of this law in the law that we have previously dealt with because they are actually interconnected. However, the main objective of the proposed amendments relating to this law is, in particular, to adapt the legislative changes in other areas, notably to comply with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds and the new law on scholarships, to eliminate the duplication of legal provisions with the law on the enforcement of rights from public funds, or to harmonise the law before that. However, it is also in this law to extend the basic condition for eligibility to a protective allowance and also to exclude one third of the value of the cash social assistance received and the security allowance in relation to the restrictions under the law on inheritance. Perhaps I would say at this point that, according to the proposal of the law, those who receive extremely financial social assistance will no longer be obliged by their descendants to return this extraordinary financial assistance, nor will those who receive financial social assistance for up to 12 months. The logic was that those in short - term need of help, of course, even if their descendants had some assets to repay the help they received from their parents in order to exempt them. Even with the property registration provisions, we have gone a step further to make this happen if you have an apartment above the right size and are receiving financial social assistance for more than 24 months in the last 18 months. In the case of the protection allowance, which was the right where citizens and citizens were most often cancelled because of this label, we went in the direction that it was not the whole refund and, above all, it is our place, and this is also today to say that the debtor or the one who is entitled to the protection allowance of the financial social assistance does not, in any way, repay this aid to their heirs if it is property and they themselves do not need assistance. We are therefore not prejudiced in any way by the property of that person who is entitled to receive financial social assistance. We are improving the situation in this area in particular by introducing a free mindset regarding the non-compliance of property owned by a party which can be concluded that it is temporarily unable to provide for this real estate because of circumstances on which it cannot influence itself or which it cannot dispose of. For example, in the case of succession or inter-group disputes where the actual customer is unable to dispose of this property, we give free consideration to the centres for social work in order not to count the property of this property. It is also important that the student work income of EUR 132 per month is not counted in the family's income available, that we eliminate discrimination in the granting of exceptional financial social assistance to beneficiaries of a protective allowance, and that we also introduce new criteria for establishing minimum income. As I said before, we raise money social assistance for children in single - parent families as well as for another adult. In this law we also introduce two new exceptional forms, two special forms of exceptional monetary social assistance, which are linked to the abolition of post-mortems and funerals in the compulsory health insurance system. This is such an arrangement that those who receive a security allowance or financial social assistance will be entitled to these rights, and we have gone higher in the right to a funeral and have also committed ourselves to those who have a net income to a family member at the threshold of setting the threshold of poverty, that is €606. The financial implications will be around 4.5 million, and now 9 million have been allocated to these rights. This must be said transparently that not all of us will be entitled to these rights, but it is interesting that there has been compulsory health insurance in the system, that not only this right has been justified by those most threatened by this law that will now be. We extend the possibility of being eligible for this financial social assistance and a protective allowance, and we also raise it where necessary, in particular in the case of single-parent families. So I believe that these improvements will be felt by citizens and citizens, I would like more, but given the financial situation at this point, we could not, for example, raise the level of minimum income, but we would like to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Committee, I give the floor to Dr. Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Committee considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Social Protection Benefits submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and the College confirmed the procedure. Representatives of the proposer with the Minister, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, a representative of the State Council, representatives of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and representatives of civil society organisations participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supported the bill in principle and received comments from the public concerned. On the basis of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, amendments were tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, which were adopted by the Committee. In its introductory explanation, the representative of the proponents gave a joint brief emphasis to the changes in social legislation. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, however, drew attention to the fragmentation and impreciseness of legislation in the field of the regulation and enforcement of rights from public resources, which is mainly reflected in transitional and final provisions. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee pointed out in particular the problem that the payment for the opinion of the Special Disability Commission, which would establish a permanent incapacity to work and therefore grant the right to a protective allowance, should be covered by the applicant himself. They doubted that the draft law had no negative consequences for other public funds and considered that the solution in the draft law, which removes the protective allowance for those persons who are in full-day institutional protection in social security institutions, is not fair and that the restriction on the right to burial and post-mortem is caused by the unequal position of insured persons. However, members of the coalition party committee felt that the proposal for a law meant improving the current situation and adapting to legal changes in other areas. The Committee has adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and to its amendments on the basis of which a proposal for a law is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will be the first to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with co-workers! As we have already stressed in the New Slovenia's position on the amendment of the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds, the so-called Svetlik social legislation of 2011 meant an additional reduction in social security for a number of groups of people, and it has thus brought them to the brink of poverty. Young families, large families, and older ones are among them. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats have written in their programme that the family is the foundation of our society and that we will strive to develop policies and measures aimed at families and children and allow each family and every child to have the same opportunity to strive for a comprehensive and coordinated reform of the social policy system that will create and promote social solidarity among all groups of the population. This requires a new social agreement to ensure that no individual or group lives below the social security threshold. We therefore promote awareness of the individual's personal responsibility for his or her own secure social situation, especially in his or her age, and that three factors are responsible for the social security of each individual: first the individual, then the working and living environment in which he or she lives, and finally the country with effective legislation and adequate financial resources. Christian Democrats, together with the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia and with many other representatives of civil society, are outraged at the attempt to exclude funerals and post-mortems from health insurance rights and their inclusion in the system of social security benefits. That is why we have responded to their call and have tabled the appropriate amendments that eliminate this non-systemic and reckless solution and thus allow for further reflection and a comprehensive solution to this area. We are asking the Ministry for such solutions, which will only introduce new injustices in the area of social security benefits, which are already pre-adoptive to the harassment of a number of stakeholders. Members of New Slovenia are inclined to change social legislation, but we point out that changes are not sufficient and will therefore be even more poorer because of changes in other areas, such as property taxes, higher VAT, or even more people living in poverty. If our amendments are not accepted, the amendment will not be supported by the New Slovenia MEPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Mirjam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The positive position of the Ambassador of the Group Positive Slovenia on the amendment of the Law on Social Security Benefits is confirmation of the efforts made by the competent ministry to make urgent changes to social protection legislation. First of all, it is a matter of improving the current situation, as the amendment eliminates the duplication of provisions by the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, eliminates discrimination in the granting of emergency social assistance between beneficiaries of a protective allowance and eliminates injustices in the granting of exceptional financial social assistance to persons who have changed their status. As this is a law governing the right to financial social assistance and the right to a protective allowance, I will touch on the improvements and innovations that this amendment brings to the receipt of these two social transfers. With this novelty, we are expanding the range of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance, as we are raising the amount of assets that are not taken into account for its acquisition. As assets, savings that are determined for a single person in the amount of three minimum incomes shall not be taken into account, but shall not exceed EUR 2 000 500 for the family. In addition, we increase financial social assistance for adults living with an extra-marital or childless spouse, since these people have suffered the most from the social situation since the introduction of the new social legislation. We give social work centres the opportunity to have a free mindset in view of the property in which an individual does not live and which it can be concluded that this property cannot temporarily provide for himself because of circumstances which he cannot influence. In doing so, I would like to point out that this legislation provides that no refund is required for the financial social assistance and exceptional financial social assistance received by a person for 12 months or less. However, if it has received it for more than 12 months, the inheritance shall be limited by deducting from the aid received first 12 maximum monthly amounts and then one third from the remaining monthly amounts of the aid received. The new social protection legislation has led to a drastic decline in persons receiving a protective allowance. We are therefore extending the general conditions for eligibility in this area. Since many individuals have decided to waive this right because of the so-called property sealing, we propose that the limitation of the inheritance of the property of the person receiving the security allowance may only be limited to two-thirds of the value of the aid received. With the amendment of the law to pensioners under 63 years of age or pensioners under 65 years of age, we also provide access to disability committees of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance to obtain an opinion on the inability to work. With this novelty, social security benefits, as a special form of exceptional financial assistance, are also moving to the current right of compulsory health insurance. It's the right to a funeral and a post-mortem. Indeed, these rights will no longer be universal, as they will be linked to the eligibility of monetary social assistance or a security allowance or to the income position of an individual. Newly, these rights will be defined as exceptional financial social assistance for the death of a family member and exceptional social assistance to cover funeral expenses of twice the basic amount of minimum income. And let me warn you that these two benefits will not be subject to inheritance restrictions. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we are aware that solutions are not optimal, but they are the best approximation for those which our country can provide at this time. Therefore, we will support the amendment of the law as well as the amendments of the coalitions, which improve the content confirmed on the parent's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u82	Dear Minister with co-workers, distinguished Vice-President, colleague and colleague! The best social policy is the policy of creating new jobs. Social legislation must be effective only if each individual does his or her own work and does not manage his or her own survival or the survival of their family members. When the new social legislation created under the auspices of the then Minister, the current Rector of the University of Ljubljana, Mr Svetlik, started in 2012, we welcomed this purpose, that the new social legislation is significantly more selective, that it allocates rights on the basis of relatively strict criteria and that these rights for certain beneficiaries are also higher than they were before. This has made social policy a little more targeted and, according to our assessment, the idea is also more equitable. Unfortunately, the then Pahor government launched this social legislation too quickly, without adequate tests of both the information system and without the appropriate competence of all those who have implemented and implemented this legislation in practice within the framework of social work centres as well as at the Ministry of Labour. Therefore, at the beginning of 2012, when I finally took over this area, there were a number of implementation problems, so-called childhood diseases, in the implementation of this legislation. One of the most pressing problems, which is unfortunately still present today, is that it is an abundance of red tape, a decision on rights at the level of social work centres, and these social work centres have not been significantly strengthened, except with some temporary informers, which has led to significant delays in the decision-making of rights. Even worse, the social work centres did not deal with those professional tasks, the most difficult tasks of solving certain social pressures, and the family pressures of those social beneficiaries, but rather dealt with bureaucracy and decision-making on those rights. The same was true of the ministry. That is why we decided at the time, or were in a dilemma, whether to continue with this planned reform, which had already been launched, or simply to find alternatives. I have personally decided to continue implementing this legislation despite the problems they have been monitoring. The implementation of the legislation has also been accompanied by a whole set of apparent injustices and we have therefore decided that after one year of implementation of this legislation we will make an evaluation and come to this Parliament with amendments. The evaluation has been made, and today we have before us proposals for amendments both in the field of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and also under this Act, the Law on Social Security Benefits. We welcome some of the solutions in this proposal, in particular when we are talking about eliminating certain anomalies in the implementation of this legislation in recognising some different criteria for the allocation of rights. We also draw attention to some other less-friendly solutions that outweigh the positive ones financially. The restriction of funerals and post-mortems, which is no longer a universal right of health insurance, is selectively intended for those who are below a certain threshold of income. Then the reduction of children's allowances for underage students is also a compensation because we have reintroduced a state scholarship for students. Of course, we believe that some of the solutions are also those that we will try to upgrade with amendments. In particular, we expect the Ministry to be a little disappointed here as soon as possible, make sure that the law or this automation will be implemented more effectively in the exercise and allocation of rights, faster so that there is no such delay in solving the problem and thus also reducing certain rights for beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Social Security Benefits Act is the second law in the social legislation package. The amendments and additions to this Act were also based on the analysis carried out by the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, on the comments made by the people in practice. The key solutions to the law, which are very much supported by the Social Democrats, are as follows: the range of beneficiaries of financial social assistance is widening as the amount of assets that are not taken into account increases; the amount of financial social assistance for adults living with a childless partner increases by 20%; the amount of emergency social assistance for beneficiaries of a protective allowance will be easier to obtain; the allowance for a single parent family to a child with cash social assistance. In particular, we would like to point out the changes to the law relating to the so-called return of financial social assistance and the inheritance allowance, i.e. the death of the recipient. As this is about taking into account the work of the amount received in the inherited property, there is no way that we can talk about social credit. After the new death of the recipient, there will be no need to repay the extraordinary financial social assistance and not the financial social assistance received by the person for 12 months or less. If it has received it for more than 12 months, the inheritance shall be limited by further deducting one third from the remaining amount of the aid to 12 months. In the case of the refund of a protective allowance, the amount of the refund shall be limited to only two thirds of the amount received. Distortions are also, of course, linked to the transfer of the right to a post-mortem and funeral home from compulsory health insurance. On the one hand, there were requirements when we adopted an intervention law that the rights that do not belong to insurance should be excluded from this, on the other hand, when we are looking for different solutions, of course, concerns arise. We are aware that this is one of the oldest insurance rights, but the first legislation in this area was created at a time of extremely low worker protection. According to the new report, these two rights will be paid as a special form of emergency financial assistance and linked to the poverty threshold of €606, which is the highest threshold set by social legislation for the enforcement of any form of aid in this law. We therefore estimate that at least 50% of the current amount of beneficiaries of these two aids or allowances will also receive this further. Another change remains in this law for the future. Due to the financial consequences of €12 million, unfortunately, it is not possible to provide a protective allowance for those in institutional protection. We are aware that in today's situation only what we can financially cover can be accepted. That is why we will also support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u86	Have a nice hello again. In the Civil Gazette, we have always advocated monitoring the effects of the legislation adopted in practice and proving certain anomalies to be eliminated as soon as possible. That is why, of course, we will also support these amendments to the Social Security Benefits Act, as we are convinced that they are improving the current law and thus the situation of beneficiaries to receive social transfers. The novel improves the situation of applicants for monetary social assistance by increasing the amount of savings that are not taken into account as assets in the allocation of monetary social assistance. The situation of single - parent families is also improving among recipients, as a child’s allowance in a single - parent family is increasing. Money social assistance is increasing for adults living with a childless partner. A more favourable way of taking account of all informal income is being introduced. The provisions concerning the recovery of the aid received are also more favourable, since it will not be necessary to recover the exceptional financial social assistance received and the financial social assistance received only for a short period of time. In the event that a person has received financial social assistance more than 12 times, the inheritance will not be limited to the total amount of the aid received. The situation of recipients of a protective allowance is also changing as the number of recipients of such aid has decreased by three quarters due to the amendment of the legislation. At the end of 2011, there were 46 thousand 752 recipients and in December 2012 there were only 10 thousand 386 recipients. The law extends the general conditions for obtaining the right to a protective allowance, as is the case with monetary social assistance, which will not be considered assets in the exercise of the right to a protective allowance. The concept of permanent unemployment and permanent incapacity for work is also being regulated. Many beneficiaries have decided to waive these rights mainly because of the prohibition on the disposal and loading of property and a new proposal is made to limit the inheritance of the property of the person receiving the security allowance to only two thirds of the value of the aid received. The novel also introduces two new forms of emergency social assistance to cover funeral expenses and to assist in the death of a family member who is not bound to be involved in compulsory health insurance, namely one-off exceptional financial social assistance due to the death of a family member and exceptional financial social assistance to cover funeral expenses that will not be reimbursed as well as other extraordinary social assistance. As I have already said at the outset, we will support the proposal of the law as it brings the most urgent and financially acceptable changes at that time, which will improve the situation of the most vulnerable or vulnerable groups of the population. We also support the amendment of the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we cannot support the proposal for a law, despite some changes that are necessary and which address the major shortcomings of the applicable law and the difficulties at the Centre for Social Work in implementing this law, and because, on the other hand, this proposal brings new injustices and inadmissibility of the deprivation of rights and interference with acquired rights without a proper basis, solely due to the charging or lower expenditure of the budget. In view of the forecasts for the adoption of the novel Health Insurance Act, we expected that the post-mortem and funerals would actually be transferred from the health basket between social rights. However, it turns out that they are being abolished and redefined as the right to emergency social assistance on the basis of income calculation. Furthermore, this law brings unjustifiable and unfair interference with the right acquired by abolishing the right to a protection allowance for beneficiaries who are in full-day protection in social welfare institutions. The abolition of this right is criminal for three reasons. It is the abolition of the right because it is wrong to interpret that the right does not belong to them, because they pay the same costs for which the protective allowance is intended. Are these persons therefore in an unequal position compared to other beneficiaries? Beneficiaries shall be further wrongly injured because, in accordance with a proposal for a law or a law adopted by the Real Estate Tax Act, in order to abolish the right to a protective allowance, they will not be entitled to benefit from a reduction in the property tax, provided that they still have, which is conditioned in Article 11, by the adoption of a protective allowance or social assistance. In short, it interferes with the rights of those who have weakened and who have therefore had to be provided, it is difficult to pay the costs, and now they will be deprived of the security allowance and the relief of the property tax. The additional consequences of this failure to pay the costs will be borne by social institutions and consequently by the founders who will have to offset the losses of social institutions. These are just two cases, in our view, of unfair interference with rights and selective, opaque decision-making and saving at the expense of some beneficiaries. Despite the predictions that the laws improve and remedy the errors made when these two new laws were adopted in 2010, or the 2011 amendment, these two cases prove that they are taken and saved in the most vulnerable, in the elderly, and in those who can no longer help themselves from the situation. With our amendments, which were rejected and voted on the committee, on the working body, we wanted to correct these provisions, so Members of the SLS Group are calling on the Government and rightly expect it to review and abolish these criminal provisions in the wake of the new changes already announced in social legislation. It is inappropriate to refer to the lack of money in the budget, since it is a matter of depriving the rights for which the funds should already be in the budget or in the social treasury, so it is not a matter of new rights. On the other hand, there would be no action, as both in the field of health and social rights, we would expect systemic measures to ensure the long-term stability of public finances and social treasury and only criminal partial interventions that clearly indicate the current charging of the treasury, which could further undermine the state of public finances in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. However, we are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20 November 2013. We move on to Articles 24 and 40. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 40, so we will discuss the amendments to these articles together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 24 and 40 and the amendments of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, the National Gazette and DeSUS to this article. Does anyone want to discuss it? I'll give you a chance to discuss it. Please, for your application. Mr. Mirko Brulc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will support the amendment of the coalition because I think it leads in the right direction, and allow me to make quite a few words in the introduction to these changes. Look, we've been getting quite a few readings these days, even a little earlier at the previous point, to discuss this way around and through. See, yesterday we discussed 17 hours so around, and we discussed twenty-two hours ago so around, and I am pleased that today we are discussing very concretely the social legislation that is urgently needed for change. Here I would also like to mention and commend the Minister, who has succeeded in these times of crisis in obtaining much more money from these public funds for his ministry, which we will devote to solving the problem of poverty. Poverty is a problem; yesterday I read in the newspapers that in Switzerland every nine citizens of Switzerland said it was difficult to pay the bill. The problem of poverty is pronounced in Europe, as well as in us. Today, by amending these laws, the country is also offering assistance to the socially disadvantaged, and it is not really what I heard a little earlier that the poor person will be even bigger and the state will not take care of him. I agree with some assessment that this bureaucracy is huge. It is true, even in this legislation, but unfortunately it is not different, because certain matters relating to financial laws and so on must be merged into an article and then a text such as that should be produced. And I cannot expect an ordinary citizen to understand this, because those who apply this law must understand it, and these are the workers at social affairs centres. Verification of the material situation of individual citizens and citizens is also a complex process and cannot be simplified quite differently. But when we talk about the large public sector, how it is necessary to reduce some workers in certain areas, I would mention, today we have a higher number of socially disadvantaged workers, which is increasing in Europe as a whole, including in us, and we need these workers and we cannot just say that 10,000 workers and public sector workers should be sent home. Now, if I mention these very provisions of this law, these are changes in inheritance, funerals and funerals, that is what has already been said most today, but now that I am very grave, if I die, I do not have to pay for the funeral. Because I am not socially at risk, and we are coming to the conclusion that this contribution will be given to the family that is truly socially threatened, and we must protect it from being so. We've been given some discounts in the past, when there were golden times, I'd say at once. We are all, all children have received the same ratings, those rich and those poor, the same in other things – I will not talk about this further. But basically, all these transfers, financially, if I say so myself, are rising. As a matter of fact, there's no place to lower this ratings, so it's the Ministry's credit, and that's the right thing to do. So let us keep our heads still, even when we discuss and discuss new real estate taxes, because the veto has been voted and the exercise will have to be repeated. Even that rich farmer, a well-situated farmer who has property, must pay the tax, for he is later given some of these credits that he will probably need. I will, of course, support this law with the changes that will be voted on today, and I am pleased that the opposition – my colleague Vizjak – has previously listed quite a few good examples from his period, in order to improve the situation of those who need social assistance. This is our common ground, there is no high policy and here we are not – you, but we all need to service those who need help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Madam Minister wanted a word, then Mr Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Perhaps you would say one interesting thing about funerals and funerals, for perhaps we do not all know in this room. I have to admit, I wasn't aware of this until we got to the bottom of it. In fact, it is interesting that until the post-mortem and funeral in the compulsory health insurance system, the recipients of the financial social assistance were not entitled, i.e. those paid by the municipality because it was the basis for which this contribution was paid — in fact the most vulnerable recipients of the financial social assistance or their family members excluded from this right. So interesting when we talk about universality, it also shows how clear we are in laws. When we discussed this, they actually found that the basis on the basis of — that is, if the municipality pays, that it was not like the right deriving from this compulsory insurance when the municipality pays. So, in fact, with this change, when we translate into social policy, social protection policies, we are giving the possibility that these most vulnerable among us will be entitled to this right. That's an interesting, really interesting thing, but given the explanation of my professional associates, it's supposed to be that way. At the time of the adoption of the Health Intervention Act, it was decided to exclude the post-mortem and funerals from compulsory health insurance and to move into a social or social protection system, more correctly. When we were preparing this law, we also introduced provisions, including the right to a post-mortem and funeral home, similar to those already existing rights, and therefore gave us a form of exceptional financial social assistance, which is similar to those of previous rights. So, the funeral was just over 500 euros, so we gave twice the extraordinary cash social assistance, and also the post-mortem was about one extraordinary amount of cash social assistance, and so remains. At the funeral, we also wanted to raise it, that it was not only justified by those who were entitled to financial social assistance and a social security allowance, so we also gave a new category, those who had income on the family member up to €606, which is €606. Why? Because the threshold of poverty is at this level of income. The fact is that not everyone will be entitled to the right of the post-mortem and funerals anymore, but it is not true that the most threatened among us will not be justified because they will actually be you. The other thing is, maybe I could just respond to what was said and fix it. We would also like to grant the right to a protective allowance to persons in institutional protection, but because of the financial consequences this is not in the proposal of this law. We are not taking anything from anyone because they do not have this right today, as was the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Today, people in institutional protection do not have the right to a protective allowance and we would like to do so, but because of the financial consequences, which are only as regards the security allowance of €15 million, in relation to the right to pay the difference to the full value of health services, we have not been able to resolve this in this proposal. These changes, however, — another thought of supporting this law — may lead to further reflection on support, for we do not really take the weakest of those among us but give them this opportunity. However, as you can see — one of the amendments — we have come to a solution to this right, which applies to the funeral and funeral, so that those who will have to take care of the funeral will be able to invest. at any centre for social work and we have ruled out this local competence, which is usually the principle of the allocation of rights, precisely in order to try to make this system as uncomplicated as possible. Of course, this is related to the situation in the health treasury, a little less here, and this brings us additional financial consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much. In fact, this amendment of New Slovenia, as well as the amendment of the coalition, interferes with this article 24 or with this right to a funeral or postmortem which refers to Article 34. Also from what the Minister said, she further reinforced the need for serious over-breeding of health legislation or health reform. I have always understood that municipalities for those who cannot pay their insurance pay a contribution to compulsory health insurance and that this also follows the rights set out in this Title, but obviously this right in this Title does not follow. So, if I understand correctly, this law removes them from the basket of compulsory funeral and post-mortem health insurance rights and brings them into this law as an extremely cash social aid to cover these funeral expenses for the weakest living on the threshold or below the threshold of the poor. I believe that everyone who is capable of creating a normal life for himself and his family is likely to be able to take care of himself when he is gone or that his descendants dignify him with dignity and the question is whether this right belongs to a set or a basket of compulsory health insurance rights. Just one right to get out, at the same time not to change the contribution rate or not to deal with it, destroys or makes a lot of sense that it is some kind of insurance. The insurance premium is always dependent on a set of rights that you can enforce and therefore such an intervention would probably require an extra winding-up of additional rights that may have no connection or have to do with insurance and health insurance. So I also have mixed feelings because I think that this is a partial approach, which is not necessarily going in the wrong direction, and the problem is that this approach has drawn attention to one of the anomalies that we have – and probably not the only – when we are talking about a basket of basic health insurance rights. I don't know when this government, despite the fact that the same minister as in the previous government, when we are talking about health care, will be involved in some serious cleansing and not only cleaning, but also interference with health insurance and, last but not least, the rationalisation and regulation of certain relationships when we are talking about contributions and on the other hand the rights of these paid contributions. All we have seen so far is that for some categories of contribution rates have risen, but what little has been said in Parliament at least about some serious health reform, because this particular article is quite intruding on this matter. That is why I understand the amendment of New Slovenia, which goes in this sense, if, until now, this has been universal right, now we have even heard that it was not that they were exempt from this right, which is absurd, illogical to me for the first time, even if that is true. But I am asking the question, now that we are doing this as some kind of extremely cash social assistance, all those who, on this right, will pay the same contributions as before, say nothing for them will be reduced, even though they will be entitled to a certain level. And this article is clearly not intended for anyone else to patch a hole in a health treasury. It has no impact on the budget, perhaps indirectly, because it relieves the health treasury, but has an impact in the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs, because it has to raise the line for exceptional financial social assistance because it will pay it later. So far, it's been paid for by the health department. It's all about the flow of some of these funds. At the same time, I would like to point out that many times, when such a partial measure touches a much more bulky system and with such an intervention exposes the anomalies of this slightly larger system, which we call health insurance and the rights of this health insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Black Nebula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, I will start a little wider and point out that the law we have before us is very important because of the impact on poverty reduction in our population. While we are always stressing how difficult the situation is, how large the proportion of those who are poor, I would like to point out that this proportion of the poor is very large in other more developed countries as well; but what is very important to me is that the country is very effective in reducing this poverty in the context of social policy. I agree with that well-known saying that the best social policy is a good economic policy or a well-functioning economy, but when we come into this situation, it is important how effective social policy is with its interventions. And what Mr Vizjak has already mentioned is that our social benefits or transfers are very well targeted and that is why the level of risk of poverty is reduced or halved because we are effective. And you know what, we're more effective than the other countries you set for us as an example, one of the most effective countries, that shows analysis. I don't think it's irrelevant; it doesn't matter when we're so critical! Of course, I would like these people who need it to be as few as possible and to create conditions for themselves to ensure social security, for themselves and for their family. Next, if we move to minimum income. I think it should be emphasised: in 2012, when we were in such a deep crisis, Borut Pahor's government was the minimum income, the real threshold to which we allocated social security aid increased by 25%. At the time of the fat cows, when we had 6% economic growth, this did not happen, it happened in 2012. Not enough, we should significantly increase ourselves in terms of calculations of the minimum cost of living that the IR has done again, but we have not been able to make such a great deal. But I would point to another possibility and the correction brought by the law; for those who are themselves active and who are trying to help themselves to get out of this position, the threshold to which the rights apply is higher than a hundred euros. I think these are very important things that are part of a system that is well-directed. To go back to the 24th article, or funerals and obituaries. I will repeat, the funeral and the post-mortem were rights that were introduced at the very beginning of Mr Bismarck's health insurance application, when we were able to read the living conditions of the working relationship in England, as described by Engels. And of course, these rights were very important so that people could be helped to a decent burial. But by their nature, these are not health rights, but they are deep social rights. That is why, I believe, you have all received a letter from the Health Insurance Institute saying that these are the only two rights which are not dependent on the health status of the beneficiary and in this respect the withdrawal from other basic health insurance rights. Yes, Mr Vizjak, I deeply agree that we need a thorough ventilation of the basket of rights, and personally I think there are quite a few that do not belong in this basket. I will specifically mention specialisations, research into tertiary activities I do not think these are insurance rights. [[...]] They have to be arranged differently. And there'd be something else. However, in the case of the intervention law which was adopted – the intervention law of the Health Insurance Act – it was stressed that it is also largely adopted because a huge hole is being created to cover basic health rights. And that was one of the measures in the collection of what was established by law. As I recall, you, in your views, I think your Group of Members, have talked about this. Now that this right is passed on to the social protection system, there are, of course, social criteria. And in my introductory speech, I have already said that this is the highest threshold for any right that is exercised within the Social Protection Rights Act. This is said to be the €260 threshold somewhere or the social security allowance for the elderly is €460 and so on. And only in this case is this threshold of €606, which is the threshold under which those who are below the poverty threshold live. Now I will say one more thing, because these two rights, especially the right to a funeral, automatic justice, were also significantly higher funeral costs. This amount was happily added to the calculation of funeral services. I am sure that a little more selection will also affect the reduction of funeral costs because I say that they are enormously high in Slovenia. What is very important to me, however, is that still the vast majority of people who have been entitled to this right before will be entitled to a transaction, especially for those who are having difficulty covering for themselves. Perhaps this, the right to burial and burial, was linked to the rights of work, the working relationship, so that the people who were legally insured through the municipalities were necessarily insured, were not entitled to this right or had to take care of their relatives, and in the event that they did not have these relatives, the congregation took care of this. True, on many occasions I agree, the left does not know what the right hand is doing and therefore it is so important that when we accept some changes, we also think about others. I very much agree with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss this article? Mr. Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! It is clear from the debate that we have several common denominators. Of course, I agree with my colleague, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, and also with Mag. To the vision that funerals and funerals actually have nothing to do with health care and health insurance. This is a fact, but today this right is in the Health and Health Insurance Act, Article 13. And now, if we delete the expenditure side, it's the payment of the right, then we should also have the income, which is the payment of the contributions. This is how we explain it to ourselves and therefore have tabled an amendment and explained it and explained it as follows: Article 24 proposed regulates the transfer of the arrangements for funeral and post-mortem rights, which were otherwise regulated by the Health and Health Insurance Act into the system of social security benefits rights. This is an unacceptable change in the regulation of universal health insurance rights so far, which is not well thought out and is not systemic, and it is really about staying money, because we will transfer this right because we will not abolish that I am an exact one, because we will transport it, it will remain money to healthcare and health insurance, which is not bad in principle, but it is not right, it is not fair. In our view, the proposed new regime would create an uneven situation for insured persons who have paid contributions to compulsory health insurance until this change, and after applying these changes they would not be able to benefit equally from the funds raised under this insurance since only persons entitled to social security aid under the Social Security Benefits Act would be entitled to the funeral or post-mortality. So the number of beneficiaries of this right is shrinking. Of course, I also deeply agree with the debate that colleague Andrej Črnak Meglič said in the last part that we do not know exactly whether or not no one is monitoring what we are actually paying for with this funeral and after-death. Unfortunately, surely, everyone has some experience, even unfortunately, and I have seen what is stated on the bill or on the invoice. Look, we've also read the broad opinion of the State Council. Our position on the existence of the State Council is known to you, and I will not repeat it here, but as long as we have the State Council established by the Constitution, its functioning and its opinion must be taken into account here as well. The Council of State also states: The current Law on Health Care and Health Insurance states in Article 13 that compulsory insurance includes, inter alia, funeral and post-mortality. It is therefore a right deriving from compulsory health insurance and is adequately covered by the funds collected under it. However, while it might be possible to discuss the appropriateness of including funeral and post-mortem rights in a basket of rights covered by compulsory health insurance, there is no reason for such an important decision as the abolition of two rights covered by compulsory health insurance to be made without prior consultation with the public concerned and, above all, within the framework of a law that does not directly affect health insurance. That's what this is about! In the first place, the decision focuses on the issue of a comprehensive change in the health insurance system and the related agreement on the extent of the rights for which it is justified and reasonable to be covered by compulsory health insurance. Of course, the State Council has long explained why such a solution is inappropriate or why it in some way supports the amendment of New Slovenia. At this point, I shall conclude this debate on the amendment to Article 24. However, I will not comment on our amendments to Article 38 and Article 40, which are in fact the logical consequence of the amendment tabled to Article 24 of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? If not, we move on to Article 36. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. We're moving on to Article 38. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the amendment of the positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, the National List and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Romana Tomc, then mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. This is an article that regulates the limitation of inheritance in cases where a beneficiary receives social assistance from a State. To begin with, I would like to raise here a key or strategic issue that we have discussed long ago, and somehow we were unable to resolve it in a uniform way. There are many different views on how to solve this problem. And, of course, everyone has their own logic. However, it is simple to say that in cases where a person receives social assistance from a State and has some property, after the person receiving social assistance dies, the State is entitled to seize its property and thus be paid off. This is said to be a refund on the amount given in the form of social assistance. Of course, it is the different types of expenditure that the State is spending, which I use because there are too many of them, alone under a single name of social assistance. In short, the question now is whether the state is really justified in asking someone who once, because he was in a bad economic situation, has given something back. And we can also agree with those who say, "Yes, that's fair." Okay. But on the other hand, we must be just and equal to everyone. In many cases, the State is not only targeting individuals, but also, for example, providing companies with funds and helping them when they themselves are weak. For example, the State also grants a number of subsidies to companies in some difficult situation and provides them with funds. These companies, on the basis of the funds received, then somehow dig up from the problems and revive, create profits. Let us ask ourselves whether the country in these cases also requires money back. One more case. Like, someone gets a state scholarship. Why does he get it? Because his economic situation or the economic situation of his family is weak and the state is helping him to make some money. And then this person goes to college, gets a job, like becoming a doctor, earns a lot of pay in time. I'll explain, Your Honor, this theory goes on. Does the state, even in this case, when it once has high income and large funds, require this money back? No! No! In this case, when it grants, say, a security allowance, it requires this money back if this person, who is no longer there, but its heirs have its property. Why different treatments? We have the same thing, say, with extraordinary pensions. And I'm not going to interfere with the area that hurts you the most, but with the extraordinary pensions that are not fighter pensions. In this case, the pension consists of two parts: the part for which the contributions were paid, and the other part, which is a gift from the State for an exceptional contribution. When that person dies, regardless of the property status of the heirs, whether he has the house or not, and they will inherit it, the state does not demand anything back — just in this exceptional case. Why in these most critical situations, when people have the least? I think this arrangement is unfair. If I were justly arranged for the same thing, then I'd be understandable. It's not like that. We are therefore proposing an amendment that would better regulate this area, whose original sin is in the Succession Act and not in these social protection laws. That is, our amendment goes in a direction where it very precisely states that in cases where the heirs themselves are social problems or do not have any assets, the State is not entitled to demand anything back from them. Because the current provision of the Succession Act is not so explicit and allows for the State to decide whether or not to exercise its right. The criteria and criteria are not clearly defined. In short, we believe that this amendment will help to make this area more adequately regulated. However, I would like to know if the Ministry can provide me with information, because this option has been possible so far, and in how many cases, since it has already been permitted, the state has taken advantage of this right, and how much money, or how much money it has thus far received back. This seems very important to me that we even know whether we are talking about something that is not being implemented in practice, and we are making the law needlessly complicated here. Because the ministry has now found an intermediate solution here, where the state will have the right to demand its funds back, but not entirely, one third will somehow be left behind. I think there's actually some new complications here, some obstacles, someone's gonna have to run some records again. In short, I ask the Ministry whether this provision in the law, now in force, is being implemented in any way, in what way and in what way these effects have been. And then, of course, we'll know better how to move forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. More mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I believe, Madam Vice President, that you will allow me another thought about the previous article. In fact, funerals and funerals are now outstanding financial social assistance. According to statistics, Slovenians die about 20,000 a year, perhaps a thousand less. I think about half of them will be eligible on the basis of these criteria, which means 10,000 new administrative procedures. Otherwise, I can't explain how you're going to assign this without a procedure, because, of course, the income censorship of this individual is determined. That's one thing, but to this article. See, when we read the Succession Act, the Succession Act allowed for the possibility of freeing the return – the word “may” in there – to allow the possibility that, therefore, someone, or this reimbursement of rights, may be exempt from payment, who is also in an unenviable social position or is entitled to social transfers. This is said, until now, what you are proposing has not had to return these social transfers to heirs who are also a social problem. It says "easy." This is said to have been some kind of discretion, someone has made a decision about it, which means that by this arrangement you are now tightening the conditions. With this arrangement, you will now tighten the conditions and then the heirs, even if the beneficiaries of social transfers themselves, will be affected to a certain extent by what their predecessor, who is to be inherited, has had these social transfers for over a year. In short, the conditions are tightened here, not loosening. They're sharpening. Dearly beloved, I cannot imagine that if a family that is entitled to financial social assistance, if this family loses a parent who has also been a recipient of financial social assistance for a long time, that this family must now return or that the state should sit on part of the property of this destitute. This is, I think, pointless and will also cause more problems than a solution. In fact, the state will not get anything from that property, but if it wants something, it will cause additional social problems that someone will have to solve again — either the state or the congregation. We therefore propose, with respect, an amendment that simply seeks to ensure that the state does not enforce this legacy after death, which was the recipient of social transfers, if the heirs are entitled to, say, financial social assistance or to such transfers. For if the heirs themselves are a social problem, it makes absolutely no sense for the state to sit on the property of the deceased, who was entitled to financial social assistance. That's one thing. The other thing is, it's very illogical for me to think that you gave it there for a year, that it doesn't happen until one year, and after one year of receiving it. I would have thought it was the other way around, because the problem is those long-term dependents on social transfers, which are relatively unemployable, which are in short terms a social problem, you can't hire them, they're probably permanently unemployed, and, of course, they're probably extremely weak. So those are subject to these new restrictions, and all those who receive it for a short time are not. Rather, I would say that those who receive for a short time, who are therefore resilient, and it is not a problem for the state to sit on their property or return it so that those who are long - term or who are not. That would make sense to me, not the other way around, that those who are short-lived are forgiven, but not for long. This is where I think you're causing additional restrictions. This amendment is very important for the Slovenian Democratic Party and will probably also depend on our vote on the whole law, because I ask you to really consider this solution, which we propose not to further deepen social pressures and tensions in such families, where, of course, these social transfers are a rule but not an exception.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you. I'll start at the end. Thank you SDS for this amendment which he has tabled; in fact for caring for those who are recipients. Your amendment says that those who are recipients under the Social Protection Regulation or who are entitled to social security rights in accordance with the Social Protection Regulation; therefore, if they were to inherit from previous recipients of financial social assistance or a social security allowance or have been entitled to a social security allowance, the property of these objects would not be required by the State or by the State to recover the funds invested, if we say so. I can assure you that this is already the case, but if we accept your amendment, that is, in fact, in the light of the existing Succession Act, it is narrower. Indeed, the law on inheritance, which has been invoked here, and has been in force for quite some time in our country, says that the state can cancel the repayment of these funds if the prodigal's heirs, his spouse or his children are in need of assistance. In fact, this is broader and can be taken up and also set a higher price and leave discretionary rights to social work centres. As you have written down the amendment, it actually means a restriction on the existing situation in the Succession Act. So I believe that, even though the coalition is unlikely to support your amendment, you will still be able to uphold the law because it is guaranteed. No beneficiary of financial social assistance or of a protective allowance — that is to say, that the beneficiary is entitled to such benefits — has ever returned anything to that State or to the congregation. Now, if I go a little bit more systemic, some answers are likely because the question of fairness in the system was the comparison of monetary social assistance and state grants or perhaps even exceptional pensions were compared and the question of returns was raised. Social assistance systems are in theory, if you want the "last reset" system, so first within the social security system we know the social insurance system, these are the rights for which we usually pay our contributions from work and are also bound by the level of contributions, and then we have social assistance systems, where the country always, if we compare any system in Europe, allocates to those who cannot help it in any other way. So even when a family is no longer able to help, even when an individual has not acted on his own fault for not having the resources. Generally, the country is the strictest country in these rights. And that is precisely the decision, because in Slovenia we do not have this two-year claim to be paid or that it is a sign of real estate and a ban on inheritance in its entirety. This has been in force since 1976 and it has also been twice the Constitutional Court's judgment and the Constitutional Court has also stated in these explanations that it is in a fair and constitutional manner incontrovertible to ensure that the State provides aid, of course. Because you need to be aware that in some countries individuals with real estate are not entitled to these rights because they are considered to have assets to provide their material security. So, here we said that whoever has the property, we let that property have it, we don't want him to sell it, we don't force him to do it. However, after he dies, it is only right that his heirs, if they did not want or were able to help him survive — because we must not forget that in our system we have established that we are responsible for children not only by the age of eighteen, but by the end of the schooling period, that is mostly by the end of the year 16. That's why we have another law, this one right here, that we have children to take care of our parents. And this is somehow part of the social state system in this and it goes here if the children failed, I won't talk, I won't care about their parents, then it's only right that if it's property or property of greater value that is after the forsaken and these heirs don't need help, only in this case the state requires a return part of that received. This law has now led to the fact that it has not fully recovered the right, in the case of a protective allowance, this is two thirds of the aid. With regard to the issue of monetary social assistance, we went a step further and said that if you are receiving extremely financial social assistance, you are not returning it because there are exceptional circumstances. We said with money social assistance for 12 months. Why 12 months? Here it has been said that this is bad, that those who receive short-term is that monetary social assistance, even if you look at the Social Protection Act that defines it, is a short-term right that is intended to overcome the material distress of an individual and the only protection allowance is one that is ultimately available to people when we know that they are no longer able to work or because of age or disability. [[…]] Well, it's the only thing that's going on here is a long-term receipt. While monetary social assistance should be a short-term benefit and a state in the system, this is our duty, it must do more to make the programmes – here is the economy, I certainly agree – but it is also necessary to develop social activation programmes, that these people, who are usually involved in multi-dimensional problems, therefore not only the problem of unemployment as such, but also many times with long-term recipients, and other health problems, so that they must be treated differently. Basically, even if you look at how much help we give, try to encourage those who do a particular job, including this law, now to those who receive financial social assistance on a voluntary basis, to those who work in non-governmental organisations or even accept voluntary training, we add to them an activity allowance just to do everything in the system to encourage those who want to work or do some kind of work, not to employ them to know about money social assistance. This is also a link to the European concept, in English it is called making work pay, so that you do that work has to be paid off. Of course, all of this is about giving you the right; the longer it is to receive, the more justifiable it is to register the property. Again, we need to be precise enough here to say that in this proposal, we should distance the time frame when this happens to an individual and it only happens to those who receive financial social assistance and have received it more than eighteen times in the last 24 months, and only if the apartment is above the appropriate size, and only if he agrees is given this record. So, in the system there are a lot of heads and always an individual has to agree, he has the opportunity to sell his own apartment, which is bigger, and thus to secure his material security. Certainly, the debate on the fairness of the system is welcome, and probably even in the face of this crisis, which our country is facing, will probably also be needed in the National Assembly, first on the home committee, to discuss how we see the role of the welfare state, the role of the public sector in the provision of various services. However, we would like to give citizens a greater sense of the country's role in this area so that we can also make every citizen and citizen a one-year report on how many rights or how many material resources they have acquired from this title, because I think we take too many rights too often as self-evident. If I can sum it up. I believe that if the SDS objects simply because there is really no reason. The rule of law on inheritance, the lawyers here are the ones who say they assure you that it's wider at the moment. If you had accepted your amendment, you would have narrowed down and not reached the goal as you pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I would only ask the Minister once more if he could answer my question about the practical data as to how this right has been exercised so far. For, as you say, this article of the Law on Succession has been in force for many years, allowing the State to make better decisions. Thank you also for your explanation on this theory of social security systems, but my point was not in this. My point was that the country at different ends helps different people, businesses when they are in crisis. It helps them without anyone ever paying any contributions and being entitled to receive some kind of assistance, some amount of money, on the basis of the contributions paid. However, in those cases where the State is acting in the same way, it gives some public resources, which it is obliged to ensure that they are used economically, rationally, in those cases it does not require refunds back. It requires them in these most problematic cases when it comes to people who are actually on the social floor. If I can finish with my personal opinion on this. I think that the limit for when an individual can obtain social assistance or any right under this Title should be set appropriately high. If someone has an asset, a car, a house, I don't know what's of greater value, I know that there are also weights here, but there should be a mechanism to ensure that only those who are truly entitled to it receive any kind of social assistance. But once the state makes that decision and gives something to someone else, then let them forget about that money. Because, with recovery and recovery of these funds, I think, in my opinion, there is much more cost and much more work than there is in fact benefits. Therefore, Minister, I ask you: How much of this article, as it is here in the Law on Succession, is social legislation really beneficial?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u108	I'm sorry. I forgot that answer earlier. So far, it has been mainly a matter of paying back social security services, where essentially the beneficiaries of the congregation and the congregation have been in the process for most of the time. We don't have the data they recovered from this, of course. It is a fact, however, that after the introduction of the new social legislation there was no system where there would also be a link between the administrative unit's databases for a security allowance and cash social assistance. This linkage between administrative units and social work centres will be ensured in December. Therefore, if someone dies, they will also know whether he was receiving a protective allowance or a cash social assistance allowance. In this case, from now on, we will probably have more than what I can, later on, give you a second year's data. However, it is certainly a matter of the ministry’s thinking on what to do with these funds, regardless – the funds are assets, but sometimes they are real estate. These properties will need to be taken care of and, at the same time, will need to be asked how we will give it back to the community, i.e. to citizens and citizens. Here we are thinking, in connection with social entrepreneurship, that we will also give municipalities the opportunity to activate it. We're also working in this area. However, the goal is to make sure that what is to be picked up is, of course, for the purpose that is to be collected where it can be taken back to the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Crnak Neglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much. When we talk about the social state, it consists of three key elements: social rights, usually linked to the insurance system or taxes, it is a different principle of allocation, and social assistance and the third element are social protection, social services. As the Minister has already mentioned, the strictest criterion in allocating social rights is always linked to the criterion for allocating income. It means testing, as we call it. And there is no exception to this for Slovenia. When you talk about inheritance, I would like to point out that in this case Slovenia does not represent unity in Europe, but if these forms of aid are granted and reach some height, they also burden the legacy. I can tell you this is about Austria, it's about France, it's about Germany, it's about what would happen. Of course, everything is conditioned by the circumstances in which we live. In our case, we have decided to deviate considerably from the initial, rather strict criterion, which was linked to the return in any case. The basic principle that a person is currently in a difficult situation is taken into account in the way that if this is the current situation, it is to be written off in full over a certain period of time from what must be returned. Of course, if it is a longer period, and this person has some property to inherit from his heirs, the logic is completely different. The country — or all of us — including those with minimal incomes, we pay for him to live as much a decent life as he can, and only his heirs. Then we could do the opposite and say, O.K., his heirs take care of him first, and then the state comes in. This is the strictest so-called residual model of the social state that we have known or, as in strict form, is nowhere else, that is in the Anglo-Saxon model or that is something that was strictly enforced 20 centuries ago. This is the principle of subsidiarity, which is being applied to us, which is not being carried out so far. So, when we judge – I know that all these things are somehow difficult to understand, especially in the Slovenian concept of the concept of property, but we must be fair and take into account a certain context, historical development and also comparatively what is happening elsewhere. I think that what has been done with this law, with these new reliefs or pardons, is a big step towards making this system much more acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. More mag. Majda Potter and then Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, perhaps we could reply to that part of the justification given by Mrs Tomc. When comparing the return or obligations of the refugees to an inheritance payment, Mrs Tomc also based this on comparisons with extraordinary pensions, I will say. By the way, what do I see the problem? If we are talking about extraordinary pensions for extraordinary artistic achievements or sports achievements, because you probably thought of them, I do not remember that we would now determine for the new beneficiaries. This has often been the subject of major debates, but I cannot imagine that someone who, as a recipient of the Prešeren Prize, would be entitled to a pension supplement would be in a situation where his persecutors would be given this part, which was recognised by the State as crediting him with extraordinary achievements, so that his persecutors would have to pay that part back. Then anyone who belonged to him would probably give up such a work rather than impose that burden on his heirs, his offspring. Here we also have live cases, or we would say such new cases, when individuals point out that special achievements should be brought into the system differently, athletes have been very active in recent times when they wanted to introduce an income scheme. I think it's an incomparable thing, it's not a social transfer, but it's a form of material compensation to acknowledge that someone in this country is a valuable person who has achieved something in his life. Here I think this argument is limping. That's my explanation, of course. This is a distinct individual right and the question is how to move forward when we are talking about a widow or a widower's pension, and there are other provisions that are required. It seems to me that in the course of the booking of the property on the prisoner's debt of restitution, there are probably questionable reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u114	And I'll start here in the end, with an individual right. True; but then why do the heirs inherit this individual right? That's wrong! And in this area, we should do a lot more. If someone has been granted a right because of his merits, any outstanding achievements in the field of sports, culture or elsewhere, let's say in any kind of war, then the day that person dies, these individual rights are over. But it's not like that in our system. This right is also inherited by heirs. I just wanted to point out that, in many cases, the State does not, in many cases, require those companies in a difficult situation to help them, and after that individual has better economic status. He's not asking! In these cases, which we are dealing with under this law today, this is different. In these cases, however, it requires them. And my principle is that the system should be the same for everything. That's all! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I agree with what was said. It's probably connected to some kind of prevention against abuse, if anyone knows that they're gonna have to pay it back, that's what keeps him from being abused. But I think it is appropriate that we really sow it everywhere, wherever we determine any right or power of individuals — everywhere there is a possibility of abuse, and it is right that this protector is there too. I think it was good to warn them that they had double standards here. In fact, it seems to me that in those who are entitled to these most basic social rights, we are relatively restrictive here, and elsewhere, when state resources are allocated, we are a little less. It seems to me that it would also be appropriate for the Ministry to consider a similar pattern in other cases. But I am speaking with regard to the intervention of the Minister at the outset when she wanted to say that we in the Slovenian Democratic Party with the amendment to Article 39 are somewhat restricting the rights that follow from the Succession Act because it is not true. We are merely preventing it from being possible for those who enforce monetary social assistance, a protective allowance or the exemption of social security payments in order to abolish this discretion. In fact, if you look at how this paragraph is formulated, it says that we do not limit the possibility and these two articles, 128 and 129 of the Succession Act, are still in force. However, discretion does not, it is said, do not do so, but in the event that the heir is entitled to financial social assistance or such, the State cannot, by any means, exercise its rights as an heir or part of the property of the prodigal. That's how we read this amendment. We could read it very similarly, as if the word "may" had been deleted in the Succession Act. That's not true. Actually, I don't know, and maybe I'm asking you here for an explanation, and I don't even know how that word "may" was in the law of succession. In fact, the Succession Act states: "The Republic of Slovenia or the municipality in the budget from which the aid to the progeny is financed, in accordance with the social protection rules, may, until the end of the legacy treatment, waive the right to repay this aid if they are the heirs of the progeny, his spouse or his children who are themselves in need of assistance. That's what you say, yes, but you can't. First of all, I don't know who decides – the court, the social work center? In one case, the State may sit on the property of the prodigal in heirs who are a social problem, but not in some cases. This was probably true when it was not, as I would say, an exact entitlement; when this right to social assistance was a matter of some discretion of the centres or greater softness there of some employees at social centres, work and then someone could still be arbitrary here, but now that someone is justified or not according to the previously known criteria, I think it is right for those who are the heirs themselves of the social problem not to sit on the property of the prostitute in those countries, if the defector was also the recipient of social assistance under those rules. If we read it like that, then this amendment is in place, and I think it's also very clearly written.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u118	I am trying to be taught by lawyers because I am not a lawyer myself, but Mr Vizjak, if you want to do as you are now explaining that it would be, you have to write your amendment a little differently. In fact, we should then write that the inheritance of the property of the prodigal referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and 3 should not be limited, irrespective of Articles 128 and 129, in order to achieve this, as you say, in order to achieve it. And I'm telling you, I mean, lawyers are explaining to me that this word "may" that you otherwise understand, says that in these cases, when an individual is in need of assistance, the State may cancel because in other cases it must not give up. And so this word is not what you're saying, it's basically discretion, but that the state has a chance to give it up. There's nothing more I can say about that. I agree with what you want with this amendment, only with regard to lawyers, as they explain to me, it is not now that the existing system would not allow it or that it would be otherwise arranged and if you accepted it as you now say that it would actually mean worse for people because only those who would be recipients of children, recipients of the DSP and the security allowance would be entitled to the state's resignation, while here in the Succession Act is broader when it says that assistance is needed and perhaps this discretion is here. Look, here's the thing about lawyers and the implementation of this law, so it's hard to explain more than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I think this is, of course, a law that lawyers can usually read in this way and otherwise, because this amendment was also written by the lawyer, by the way. But I appeal to a healthy farmer's mind when we read this amendment, and a healthy farmer's mind says this: "The inheritance of the property of the prodigal from the first, second, third paragraphs shall not be limited in accordance with provisions 128 and 129. Articles." Do not limit yourself to those who are recipients. But in this 128th and 129th articles there are restrictions that also speak of this word "may". This is said to be absolutely impossible in these cases to exercise inheritance if the heirs are a social problem. That's what we wanted, and that's what we wrote down, and that's what it is! Sir, I'm an electrician myself, or a technical expert, and now I'm reading it like we wrote, not like anyone would like to see us write it. And many lawyers read it as they would like it to be written, but it's written as black on white as I read it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Right now, Mr. Lucky Meh, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u122	Maybe something else from the point of view of the municipalities. Congregations are, in this case, those who must strictly respect the law in this area. Of course, it is the local community where we live, where we consistently sit on every asset, if I may say so. Then, in the legacy debate with the heirs, we negotiated and did so, so that we definitely did so purely with everyone. But the problem arises when a citizen moves or goes to a home, into an institution and chooses the most expensive institution, because it is paid by the local community, and there is no property. In this case, it is those who have property and who pay for themselves who choose services in cheaper homes and institutions, while those who pay them all in the most expensive institutions. So it seems to me that there should be some criterion here that would allow you not to be true that someone can choose their own room, balcony, TV, refrigerator and so on, and all of this is paid by the local community. While the one who pays himself can't do all of this and is often in a room with more residents because he doesn't have that money. In cases where the heirs were themselves socially threatened, however, they had property and would endanger those who lived there by selling their property and would become social problems, we often decided not to sit on it if we could literally say so, unless it were sold, because otherwise we would have even more problems than we had. This would also indicate an agreement with the congregations, since they also have problems in the congregations when they settle costs. And that's not really a small one, that's a big one, and maybe only from the point of view of the local community would want to enlighten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have been very well-meaning and constructive in my performance and also in explaining this amendment. If you return to me with the same measure, in short, if you support the idea, you have problems with the legal formulation, then the solution is quite simple – let us support this amendment, which is the only one to Article 39, which means that the article for the third reading is open, and we can correct the appropriate thing by reformation to read the same. Because I understand that you understand the intention that we want to communicate with this amendment, and in some way also to define more clearly the possibility that is in articles 128 and 129 of the Law on Succession. For I believe that that record in the Succession Act no longer conforms to modern social legislation. It's too loose, it's indeterminately written, and it's really a matter of hundreds of interpretations. If we want to find this solution, then we are absolutely without prejudice to the legacy of the prodigal who received social assistance if the heirs are also entitled to social assistance, which means that they went through all the selection needed. I think that's actually a relatively small amount of what we're expecting. And I am really asking you to use your influence in the coalition to support this amendment, and then we will be very able to find an even better formulation if this is not right by your judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm closing the debate. I think that was the last amendment. It was already in the debate, they tell me, so we are essentially closing the debate on this point. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 2A agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION ON THE MATIFICATE REGISTRATION OF PROTECTORS AND EMPLOYERS OF THE RIGHTS OF THE OBJECTIVES AND OF THE INVIDENT’S INSTITUTIONS. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 46 Members and Members with their first signed Matjaž Han requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, I foresee to Minister Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! This law, which is before you, in particular coordinates the provisions on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of compulsory pension and disability insurance with the provisions of the newly adopted and enforced Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was adopted in December 2012. Paragraph 5 of this Act is 140. The Article provides that the home record shall be regulated by a special law. The new Zpiz-2 has brought a series of updates that update the maintenance of the home record and align it with the rules on the protection of personal data and the protection of documentary and archival material. This is mainly a technical law, which introduces quite a few important innovations. The proposed law introduces a mandatory electronic form of application for compulsory social security, both for all legal persons and natural persons, thus facilitating the operation of the undertakings to submit such applications, in particular for business entities in the economy and in the economy. In fact, it is the removal of administrative barriers. This should enter into force with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following However, even after 2016, natural persons will still be able to register in writing at the insurance window of the Health Insurance Office or by submitting the form via mail. So most of the applications will run by electronic, natural persons, so we, individuals, will still have a chance to play a personal role. I also believe that, in my view, even one of the most important innovations is the fact that, as far as the employees are concerned, the employee applies to compulsory pension and disability insurance no later than the day the work takes place, as laid down in the employment contract or at the latest with the start of actual work. Today, employers had the opportunity to do so in eight days. This is what the inspection has always said that it prevents them from effectively effectively controlling the prevention of work and employment in black. Every time they came to check on the field, they were told that he had just started work, I'd report him to security. According to Eurofound, this is also one of the measures which has significantly reduced the volume of black work in other Member States. At the same time, another important novelty provides for the obligation to establish a certificate of application for insurance and cancellation. Now we had to get a copy of the application from the employer when he was protecting you, not when he checked you out of insurance. And you know how much trouble we had with the workers being checked out and not even knowing they were out of the social security system. Here, not only do we reduce these burdens, we reduce the costs that employers will have in registering their employees, including for exchanges between authorities, between the Health Insurance Office, the Employment Institute, that is, between the institutions and the authorities of the country. It is particularly important that there is greater protection for workers and that, by doing so, you will not believe, we also intervene in the field of prevention of work and employment in black. I believe you will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Irena Tavcar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The main reason for the adoption of the law on the home records of insurers and beneficiaries of compulsory pension and disability insurance is the acquisition of data and the maintenance of a single insurance record, thereby increasing the update and regularity of the data. One of the reasons is to adapt to the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2, which has brought a number of innovations for insurers. One among them is a new way of accessing individual data on insurers by introducing informational personal records. This is the implementation of the novelties already announced in the preparation and adoption of the Retirement and Disability Act 2. The draft law introduces a legal basis for electronic lodging insurance applications for all legal persons and natural persons who are not independent entrepreneurs. It is necessary to establish an environment where all debtors, both employers and holders of public authority, will make a modern application and cancellation of insurance through the use of electronic services, thus fulfilling one of the measures to remedy administrative burdens. With the implementation of this Act, electronic data collection or simplification of the data collection system, decommissioning of applicants, increasing the level of regularity, consistency and up-to-date data, and increasing the legal and social security of insurers and beneficiaries of pension and disability insurance rights are envisaged. The only registry administrator by law is the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. In doing so, it is a very important provision in this law, which underlines the obligation to protect personal data, to revise data reporting and to monitor the implementation of the provisions of this Act. We positively assess the regulation of the integration of national and administrative records and the provision of mandatory exchange of information already in existence in official records. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the draft law in the first reading, and further consideration should be given to possibilities for improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u130	Nice greeting to those of you who have now joined us, but of course to the Director of the Directorate! Your Honor! The law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of compulsory pension and disability insurance is a technical and also an implementing law. However, it is up to him to determine whether he will come from 1. 1. In 2014 all provisions and measures under the pension law, such as contributions from other contractual relations such as copyright and business contracts, could be implemented. Furthermore, the proposed law provides that the worker will then have to apply for compulsory social insurance no later than the day of the beginning of work and no later than 8 days as is now the case. This novelty will make a significant contribution to the prevention of work and employment in black. In practice, labour inspection often faces excuses that it has not yet been 8 days since the beginning of work and is therefore unable to act. In the SD Group, we also make an important assessment of the novelty in the mandatory service of the certificate of application and registration in the insurance system. Workers often did not even know whether the employer had notified them or whether they had checked them out of the compulsory insurance system. The real situation was often realized only when they wanted to enforce one of the rights of compulsory social security. For example, when they came to the doctor and found out that they were not insured. After the new notice, the employer will need a charter to prove the reasons for the cancellation, while at the same time he will have to pay the fine if the employee is not notified of the cancellation. In this way, greater legal certainty is ensured by the weaker party, which the workers undoubtedly are. The proposed law also removes administrative obstacles. It thus introduces a mandatory electronic application for employers, provides for the transmission of wage data and contributions between national authorities, which will significantly relieve employers, and brings some other improvements. From everything we say, we see that these technical arrangements have some important substantive implications and also allow solutions, as we have imagined, to come to life in practice. It is therefore important that this law, which is before us, should apply immediately at the beginning of the following year, that is, from 1 January 2014. The Social Democrats will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Dr. Andrej Montenegro. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Commissioner, I again have a good day! The proposal for a law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of compulsory pension and disability benefits basically brings compliance with the provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, so-called Zpiz-2, adopted in December 2012. As has already been said today, there will be news with 1. 1. 2016 electronic application into social security and here, as Mrs Minister has said, I would like to point out that these natural persons will still be able to perform in classical form, not only in electronic form. However, the prevention of various abuses in the application or rather the non-refoulement of workers in the employment relationship brings in the second paragraph of Article 45, which provides that the application for a worker in the employment relationship must be submitted on the day of the occurrence of the work under the employment contract, but at the latest, and this is most important when the worker begins, that is to say, no later than when the worker begins his work. This provision thus eliminates all the doubts and excuses of employers in the sense that the worker has just started working with us today and we will report it within eight days, as determined so far. In this way, let us also take part in the black work, while protecting the worker, thus fulfilling all the legal conditions that arise from employment. Otherwise, as for the application, it also applies to the cancellation of the insurance. In both cases, decisions will also have to be given to the worker himself, who will thus have legal certainty. However, the new method of service of certificates does not change only the model so far, when several different holders of public notices, such as CSDs, extracts and others, have applied to insured persons on the basis of recognised rights. Of course, this means abolishing certain administrative procedures. And since one of the main programme objectives of the National Charter is also the elimination of unnecessary administrative obstacles and procedures, as well as the debirocraticisation of Slovenia for both natural and legal persons, and because we believe that simplification can lead to greater transparency and understanding of the procedures, and consequently to the completeness and regularity of the data, we will, of course, support the proposal of the law from this point of view, but not only for this reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister with a fellow member, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! After the implementation of this year's new Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we are now awaiting a new Act on the National Registry of Insurance and Retirement and Disability Insurance Users. It may be useful to point out that this law does not change the substantive rights of insurers; therefore, without any confusion, the conditions for the exercise of pension and disability benefits do not change. As the President of the Government has told us this week, however, that the reform of pension legislation and probably also disability legislation is waiting for us again next year, and then, as always, we will all be doing a lot of work together, both with proposals for measures and with an assessment of its consequences. Today, however, we have a law on parliamentary benches that provides the information necessary for the implementation of pension and disability legislation. In view of the great consequences that the system law has brought, as always, this time too, we may underestimate the fact that everything needs to be regulated, how much data is collected and regulated and, of course, also checked and then safely stored, so that after 40, 50 years, it can be said when you leave for retirement, at the Institute of Disability and Pension Insurance for an individual insured person to make the correct calculation of the pension, which, of course, belongs to him. And that's what the law that we're dealing with today is all about. Unlike health insurance rights where insurance rights are linked to the current insurance status, pension and disability insurance rights are generally applied over a long period of time, there after 30, 40 years of work. That is why it is all the more important that the data on employers, the duration of insurance and the amount of wages or contributions paid are correct, timely and, last but not least, safe. In the Republic of Slovenia, the collection of data from the insured’s home records was first established in 1970. Of course, employers have provided data on salaries and working age for a number of years only in paper form. Later, they were transmitted by major employers on diskettes and only in the last few years data are sent to the pension institution exclusively in electronic form. Now, if you ask pensioners, many of them will tell you that only at retirement did they show how much of their income and pension data are missing in the records of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. However, they are missing for a variety of reasons, such as because employers did not provide them because they provided incorrect data, such as incorrect EMHOs or the wrong amount of wages. All these years, the pension institution has been trying to obtain the missing data, but it must be made very clear that there is an increasing number of these problems in the calculation of pensions. Many companies have closed their doors a long time ago, others have lost their data and documents again. Employment exchanges are also common, so this data transmission is increasing, and thus more and more mistakes are being made. The problem is also the control of the data itself, since it is impossible to imagine how many people it would take to check with employers whether they have reported the correct data for all their workers each year. It is therefore essential that the data in the parent records necessary for the implementation of pension and disability procedures be collected in the shortest and cheapest way and that one and the same data on salaries be transmitted to employers for the purposes of official records only once. Since pension rights are a long-term rule, money rights from public funds are so important that the collected data are indeed correct that, if possible, every single data can then be applied fairly. We have been very actively involved in the preparation of the last pension reform in the Slovenian People's Party. Many of our proposals have been taken into account in the law, particularly professional ones, and it is right to say here that they have been taken into account whether we have been involved as an opposition party or as a coalition party. Some of our proposals were also linked to the transmission of data, the STIZ and to the insight of the insured into the data of the home records. On the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party, the applicable pension law ensures that insured persons will have an electronic view and will be able to check their data in the register of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office in the short term. With this law, which we are now considering, another proposal from the Slovenian People's Party will, of course, be implemented if it is adopted. This is about the fact that, after a new period of time, it will be necessary to adapt software – wage and pension data will be required by the PPIZ from the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and will no longer be provided by employers. Why is that important? Firstly, because employers have already sent data on paid salaries to Dursa for each individual payment and for each individual according to his tax number. The tax administration is therefore the first to receive this information. Secondly, because the Tax Administration checks the actual payment of contributions across the board and therefore these data are very accurate and, in principle, correct. And the third reason is because the Tax Administration, as a holder of public authority, securely stores this data and because there is no danger of bankruptcy, has lost it. There's less chance she'll forget to send them. In all of this, it is also very important that the administrative work of businesses and accounting services be reduced in this way and that business costs will thus be costed to companies. In addition, the costs of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, which has so far had a lot of non-productive work, including the collection, regulation and control of this mass of insurance data, will be significantly reduced over the long term. Because all companies do not have enough of this knowledge and provide incomplete and even incorrect data, there are many reminders, corrections and revisions of data. We can expect, which is also very important, that the pension procedures, which are often unreasonablely long due to the difficult and long-term acquisition of missing data from employers, will be substantially reduced. Companies that are obliged to store wage data go bankrupt, rename, change the address and simply cannot be found or destroyed or lost. Of course, the archives are expensive, and as a result they are damaged — someone other than the lower-retirement insured, of course! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are of the opinion that the proposed law is undoubtedly suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. DeSUS Group, Mrs Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye to all of you again! The reform of the pension system, in addition to substantive changes, has also brought a number of such innovations that enable the implementation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and are part of the Act on the National Registry of Insurance and Retirement and Disabled Persons. We have such a new law ahead of us, which in the first place means compliance with the pension law. This law also removes certain administrative obstacles or in a significant part facilitates the business of the debtors, as well as the state authorities responsible for the implementation of this law. Thus, an electronic social security application is introduced in 2016, which does not mean that it will no longer be available in writing at the office window or post office after that date. An important administrative burden for employers is that they will no longer have to provide information on the basis and contributions paid to the institution, and the institution will obtain all the necessary information from the tax authority itself. The DeSUS Group welcomes all the new developments that mean ensuring greater legal certainty for workers. The latter will have to be informed of both the beginning and the termination of the insurance, by the employer in such a way that he will have to give them a certificate of registration and cancellation. We estimate that the obligation to register a worker with compulsory pension and disability insurance will also contribute to greater legal certainty of workers at the latest on the day of the occurrence of the work, as set out in the employment contract. So, let me finish. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal of this law, as it brings not only urgent compliance with pension legislation, but it raises the level of legal certainty, ensures greater completeness and regularity of the data transmitted, follows the principle of economics and removes administrative obstacles and simplifies procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. On behalf of the NSI Group, Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The present law is more supportive and technical in nature. It must be accepted due to the numerous innovations brought into the pension scheme by Zpiz-2 or the last pension reform. New Zpiz, for example, has set up a legal basis for informational personal records which allows the beneficiary and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance to immediately look into all relevant data relating to the exercise and enjoyment of rights. The pension reform has thus also brought new ways of accessing individual data on insured persons. In addition, the novelty before us lays the legal basis for the full electronic submission of applications to all non-economic legal persons and to natural persons who are not independent entrepreneurs. Undoubtedly, this is an important step towards updating the public service and thus removing administrative barriers. As in the New Slovenian-Christian Democrats we have actively cooperated and supported the last pension reform, so we will also support this law, which is a logical consequence of the adoption of the Zpiz-2.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dimic. We have also concluded the presentation of the views of the members of the group and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic is first in line. For her, the mag. Hotchevar and Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your word, Madam Vice President, a very nice greeting to you all. I would like to start by saying that I support the proposed amendments to the law and that I think it is appropriate for a second reading. First of all, because it means compliance with the requirements of Zpiz-2 and, secondly, because it brings some important substantive news, although some believe that it is mainly a technical law. I think that even at that point, when this law introduces a mandatory electronic form of social security applications, it is a major substantive change and adaptation, taking into account in essence new situations, first in the area of the development of information and communication technology, secondly, taking into account the fact that workers today are no longer the same as they used to be when in the company in which they started their work they also spent their entire working time and then not the Insurance Office or the other institutions, also pension, in fact had very little to do with keeping records for these workers. It's different today. From day to day we meet very flexible forms of work and workers, those rare workers today who still have jobs must also change their jobs very often. I think that workers can be monitored today and in the future mainly by means of electronic recording and writing. Secondly, I think it is necessary to emphasise this substantive novelty, which prevents employers from prolonging any time at the beginning when workers start working and do not apply for compulsory pension and disability insurance. The fact that they will have to be reported on the day the work takes place seems to me to be an important form of protection of workers' rights, as well as the novelty brought by this law, namely that it is necessary to deliver a certificate to the worker that he has either been admitted to insurance or cancelled from insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I welcome the Minister and all the colleagues and colleagues present! This title of the law is long, I would say bureaucratic, but according to my content I welcome it, and I am particularly delighted in this part when the mandatory electronic form of applications for compulsory social insurance is introduced. If I say a little in a joke, these were forms from M1 to M10, and a number of others, the nightmare of every trainee in the staff service or in the payroll department. I think that, in addition to the need for a worker to give a certificate of cancellation and that it should be registered as soon as the work starts, this law, in particular, allows or simplifies the lives of people and business operators. Both the economy and the state companies have been appealing for the introduction of an electronic application for a long time. Perhaps we should also remind ourselves that despite all of this, we may have to commend or acknowledge at times that things are going well, such as by 1 Peter 2: 21. Seven. In 2011, this law, or its predecessor, was amended in order to eliminate the local jurisdiction of filing applications. This has already been the case for a great deal of movement and business facilitation since, for example, they were able to register workers, not where they were localally competent, but wherever they were in Slovenia. And today I would say that with this mandatory electronic introduction with 1. 1. 2016 is the second step or we are really making major moves to remove administrative barriers. If we didn't always talk about how this government raises taxes, I'd basically say that the Directorate for the Quality of Public Administration at the Ministry of the Interior [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u143	Mr. Pukšič, can we have a word with you? Mrs. Katarina is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u144	calculated that the amount of savings in the case of 80 % of the use of the electronic route, together with the abolition of local competence, would amount to as much as EUR 5 million savings. [[...]] And that's something. I am so glad that, as we have just said, we will no longer introduce new taxes, that the time has come, too, so that we can vote for what is actually burdening the economy. That's how I'm going to support the marriage at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I don't see Mrs. Plevčak here. Then it's up to Mr. Mirko Brulc. We have a lot of reviews, so it would be Mr. Vogrin's turn, which I don't see here, not even Mr. Tisla, and then Mr. Happy Meh, if there is no one in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Vice President. There's not much to say about this marriage. Without further ado, we will accept this proposal. I would only mention the following, that we may be ashamed that our economy – especially the builders and those who are capable of exploiting this labour force, which came mainly from the south of the Balkans. We know how they didn't report them, as well as companies like SCT, Primorje and others, and that this law is finally preventing it. Thus, the moment the worker steps into the construction site must be reported and no longer a joke with the inspector and so on and the paper gets reported that his contributions are paid and that there is no waste in this capitalist system. I also ask where the unions or a number of others have been, instead of organising the throwing of dice into parliament, we should protect these workers, but these workers are not paying membership fees and are irrelevant. Now the state will protect them and – congratulations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, please. After him, Mr. Smodish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u148	Good-bye! It is appropriate to establish this record. The question I would like to ask or discuss is that this is not yet the protection of workers, in the sense that contributions have also been paid. However, she did not guarantee this. In a way, it would suggest protecting the workers from — I will not use any adjective — employers, so that the workers would know that it is not being paid. A lot of them don't even know that contributions aren't being paid. There are a lot of people who don't have paid contributions and can't go to a doctor or anywhere, and it's actually terrible. It seems to me that it would be appropriate for a worker to somehow receive a notice as to whether or not the contributions have been paid. Someone should take care of it. And it seems to me that in this direction we should make an effort to protect those who are the weakest link in our production chain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Smelly. Ivan Hršak, Jože Tanko and Franz Jurša were supposed to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. All in attendance, all in attendance! I welcome and support the proposal for a law, in particular the fact that the application must now be on the day of the show of work, thus reducing work to black. The next thing that's good is mandatory service confirmed to the worker. At least until now, when a worker went to edit papers before retirement, there was a shock because he did not have all the contributions paid. I know this will not be all arranged, but I hope that this is the first step, although these two things should be self-sufficient and long ago accepted. Because what is happening now is that unpaid contributions, that there are no job applications, and a lot of other things that are already under the heading Yes, that is not true. I only hope that this is the first step towards protecting workers who have run out of oxygen – as some like to say the word oxygen here. We must do everything at the beginning to ensure that workers' rights are guaranteed, and these are two of the most important rights; because, as we know, if the worker is protected and satisfied, the worker is satisfied with the largest capital of the company. But not as it is now that workers, unfortunately, are considered a cost. Satisfied workers will also contribute maximum oxygen to companies for better business. In the end, all I'd say is that I'm going to support the marriage at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Jursha, would you like to discuss it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I'll be very brief. I support the proposed amendment because the law brings compliance with pension legislation, increases legal certainty, ensures the completeness and regularity of the data transmitted, follows the principle of economics, removes administrative obstacles and simplifies procedures. It is important that the institution acquires its own data, because in the past someone else, the employer, would have to do so, but of course it would have to obtain it from the competent tax authority. Workers must be informed of the start and of the termination of the insurance. This, however, must be given to them, normally, by the employer and with this move, we will actually regulate this area, which has been played many times in the past, and the workers did not know what the employers were actually doing with it and what contributions or what they had not even settled. It is also very important that the employer has to report it on the first day he gets to work. Despite the fact that this was and is in the employment contract, in many cases employers did not take this into account and the consequences are known as they were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I'm still asking the secretary or does the government want it? No, no, no. This concludes the first round of discussions, but we still have a lot of time available, more than two hours for this point, so I ask all present, would anyone else like to discuss? If not, I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the adjournment of the 2A item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We move on to 2A POINT OF THE DAY LINE, which is to consider the proposal for a law on the manner of payment of differences in payment for the purpose of the removal of a third quarter of the imbalances in the basic payments of public servants under the urgent procedure In this regard, I must inform you that the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government has not yet carried out its consideration and vote on this proposal and has not prepared a report for the meeting of the National Assembly, and therefore cannot be considered in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 125 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly of this agenda. So I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 27. 11. 2013, by end of agenda item 8. I hereby adjourn the 19th meeting of the National Assembly and proceed with the vote in half an hour, that is to say at 2.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u154	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, I am continuing with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly and moving on to a vote on the proposals for decisions. I have a message telling the assembly services that they had to reset the conference voting system, so I ask Members and Members to re-install the cards and check the functioning of the voting apparatus. If there is a problem, please notify in time. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda – second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in the framework of the regular procedure We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is not suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. New Slovenia will oppose this proposal for a decision. For despite our relatively weak professional assistance and support, we have made a lot of efforts, including during parliamentary holidays, and have prepared a proposal for a law. It is true that there has been a lot of criticism because of the poor nomotechnics of the law and so on, but, ladies and gentlemen, in the parliamentary procedure we do have tools, these are amendments that can improve the bill. Our aim was to improve the situation of Slovenian authors in particular and to exempt those who organize various musical and similar events for charity or humanitarian purposes from payment of contributions. In Slovenia we have a strange situation where collective organisations, SAZAS, IPF and so on, spend too much money on their own functioning. This is what we are opposed to, and that is why I said in the first place that we are in favour of dealing with this issue for the authors in particular. Look, even the previous government, and now this government, both government suits see that this is extremely difficult matter, extremely difficult. We've had a lot of coordination, and that's exactly why I'm saying we've made a lot of efforts. See, if the Council of State has confirmed our text of the law, it probably doesn't just go to waste. We hope that a government forecast will come true, and this is that the Government will bring the text of the Copyright and Related Rights Act to Parliament by April 2014 at the latest. We have hope, despite the fact that when the new Minister comes to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, it will only be his first 100 days and he will barely get acquainted with people, offices and so on. But we have the hope that this government will keep this promise if not, it will fall again on the credibility of this government. So we will oppose the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? If not, we vote. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 6. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. We continue the 9th item of the agenda – consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. We continue the second reading, this is the decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 11. 2013 marked 'new'. We are moving on to Article 4 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette and DeSUS to this article. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want a word? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 6. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. By doing so, he became an amendment under number two immaterial. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 4. Anybody want a word? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 14 and the amendment of the PS, SD, DL, DeSUS. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 25 and to a decision on the amendment of the members of the PS, SD, DL, DeSUS to Article 25. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the PS, SD, DL, DeSUS to Article 29. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 30 and deciding on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 34. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and thus the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. The amendments were therefore adopted at second reading. I ask qualified candidates whether anyone intends to table amendments to this article. He doesn't want to. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We're moving on to law-making. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. This also concludes this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits after a reduced procedure. We continue the second reading, this is the decision on the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of the proposal of the amendments tabled. 11. and they have a "new" sign. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 24. He wants a word? In doing so, I inform you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 38 and Article 40. If this amendment is not adopted, both amendments of the same proposer shall become irrelevant. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 28 to 44. [[It was voted in favour of 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 24. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 45, for 17. [[It's 45 votes.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the coalition to Article 36. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 45, for 21. [[It's 45 votes.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 24 is not accepted, the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 38 is irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 38. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 48, for 20. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 39. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Master Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u157	Your Honor! I would not bore you with this explanation if, in the debate itself, it did not prove that the Minister is in some way adhering to the concept or meaning or content of this amendment, although he may have a problem with the formulation. What's this all about? This means that we want the heirs who are entitled to social assistance not to exercise the right of inheritance to these heirs by the prodigal who has received either a security allowance or financial social assistance or any other right. So we want to say explicitly that it is not a matter of discretion on the part of the authorities, or the heirs, when the social problem itself is to join them in their inheritance, but rather to inherit from the prodigal who was entitled to social transfers. In fact, the current law on succession states that this can happen, in this article, the coalition refers to the extent to which the state exercises its right to inherit from a prodigal who has been entitled to social transfers. With this amendment, however, we wish to state only explicitly that there is no State or municipality inheritance if the heirs or his or her children are entitled to financial social assistance in other transfers. It is said that when the heirs are a social problem, it makes no sense for the state to exercise its rights through the legacy of the prodigal. I think it's one of the guardians against the Succession Act, where this option is allowed. Although we do not have data on how many times it has been used in practice, it makes no sense that it exists at all; that there is a possibility that the State or the municipality may inherit the obscenity where the heirs of the same person are beneficiaries of social assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Can we vote? Excuse me, I'm sorry, Mrs. Black Nebula.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. And we don't think this amendment is necessary. The law of succession is clear here. The heirs themselves who are socially threatened are not the ones to be burdened with these, I will say, by the commitments made to the beneficiary's aid received. That's perfectly clear. The word "may" as originally said means an even greater possibility that this interpretation may be somewhat broader. It is unnecessary that this same formulation, which is made by the law governing inheritance, is also repeated in this law, so we will not support this amendment in the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Anyone else want an explanation on behalf of the Group Member first? No, no, no. Anyone want an explanation on their behalf? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. If we read Article 129 of the Succession Act, it says: "The Republic of Slovenia or the municipality from whose budget aid was financed to the procurator in accordance with the social protection rules may be waived until the end of the legacy treatment of the right to reimbursement of this aid......" – but you can't; you can give up, but you can't. But we only want one thing to give up this right if the heirs are entitled to social assistance. I think that this is a much more predictable norm, it is clear exactly after what is going on, as is one such general provision that offers discretion of different interpretations and, last but not least, a different practice; someone will decide this way, and another will make a different decision. Therefore, within the meaning of a more specific provision, we propose an amendment and we explain it and I will personally support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I've seen Mrs. Potts want to explain her voice. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you. Indeed, we have discussed this amendment quite a bit, and not only those who are recipients of any of the social transfers, but also others. The opinion of both ministers, because it was mentioned earlier as debaters from our parliamentary group, is that the entry in the Heritage Act is broader. Since this term “may” includes discretion that the beneficiary — the one who has given — may, in any other case, also be excused or waived the right of application from the legacy. We believe that the record, as it is more appropriate, is more favourable, so we will not support the SDS amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain a word or a voice? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. I think we should exclude from the legislation all those solutions that allow the arbitrariness of people in the institution, in the centres or in the municipalities that decide on this. We must put into law an unequivocally clear standard, this is proposed by our amendment, and we must not allow any official anywhere whose heirs are recipients of social assistance to provide that the state or the municipality will sit on the property and overlook that in the other case. Solutions must be clean, clear, simple, and there is absolutely no reason for us to get involved in such matters. However, if in the opinion of anyone, for example, the solution is still unclear, I propose that the amendment be supported, and that it be examined and seen whether this solution is acceptable or not until the third reading. But I am of the opinion, so I will support this amendment that it cannot be within the same country with the same law or something is going on that it will take advantage of this right with a country or a municipality, and elsewhere it will not, under practically identical conditions. This is an attempt, or proposal, to clarify and clarify the matter completely and that one standard applies throughout the country for the same category of heirs by social support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 39. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 40. The amendment of the NSI Group to Article 24 was not adopted and therefore the amendment to this Article is irrelevant. We will decide on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 40. Anybody want a word? We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 23. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that, in second reading, the National Assembly adopted amendments to Articles 24, 36, 38 and 40 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. No one's proposing to table the amendments. That's why we're moving to third reading. In doing so, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Anybody want a word? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 25. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue to break the 29th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on the home records of insured and beneficiaries of compulsory pension and disability insurance rights. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of compulsory pension and disability insurance is suitable for further consideration. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The draft law will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Reparation of Damage to Persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 19. 11. In 2013, the second reading of that proposal was carried out. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. No amendments were tabled in the draft law for the third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm asking if anyone wants a word. Mr Grims wants the word on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u167	Your Honor! For ten years, we've been listening to no compensation. I've got some quotes here. Pavel Gantar: "There will be no compensation." Quiet Run: "No compensation possible." Aleš Zalar: "There are no compensations anywhere." Katarina Kresal: "The menacing danger of compensation, which Mr Grims so likes to talk about, is just a fairy tale." This story, ladies and gentlemen, is becoming the truth with this law. All those who then denied, insulted, rejected all agreements on the constitutional and other laws that we offered, bear all the responsibility for the state in which we are. Things did not have to come this far, they could have been regulated long ago on the basis of an appropriate compromise. Now we have a law with which no one will be satisfied, with which you work two: on the one hand you have determined an extremely high compensation as a lump sum, and on the other hand you trigger, again, all hands of obsolescence to start running again with this law. While you're giving a cap, a three-timer of that compensation you're already considering as a lump sum to which this is supposed to stand, this protection is something weak and the question of what will happen to it in the Constitutional Court. Translated into figures: at least €130 million net, according to the minister. In the event of lawsuits, the costs of lawsuits, compensations and fines will be passed on to taxpayers and the amount will be several times higher. If something goes wrong, if I quote the Minister, then the final amount of all compensation will go far beyond a billion euros. A billion euros, ladies and gentlemen! Because for ten years you arrogantly rejected all possible compromises and different solutions when it was time for them. Where are all those today who have cried out that we are lying when we are alerted to the possibility of high compensation that will far exceed the capacity of this country? These compensations mean that somewhere money will have to be taken, so there will be less money for pensions, for health care, for children, for schools. This money will have to be taken somewhere, ladies and gentlemen. It would be wise for you to contribute out of your pocket, for this could be arranged long ago, otherwise, in a substantially more just and significantly more honest manner. Now they're all in the same boiler as you always wanted; for one abusive, for one unjust, for all those who will pay for it and who once fought for independent Slovenia, it means a great stain. In doing so, you insisted on using the wrong term; an expression that meant something else in the Baltic countries, the so-called deletion. In Slovenia it was only a transfer, because no mail was sent to all so that they could complain about these decisions in the process. This is the whole story, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why you will now spend at least 130 million euros. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wishes to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members. NSI. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! New Slovenia supported in second reading all amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will not support the law. We will vote against it. We have made great efforts, especially in the 2004-2008 mandate, when our colleague, Dragutin Mate, now made great efforts to talk and negotiate with the opposition at the time and, above all, with the LDS, came upon the wall and the solution fell into the water. Ladies and gentlemen, they are not deleted because they are among us and because they also have personal accounts to which they will receive at least EUR 130 million in the first stage. Every baby in Slovenia, every old man will contribute at least €65 in the first phase. On behalf of the New Slovenian-Christian Democrats Group, in the context of the adoption of this law, we ask forgiveness of all those who were not on the aggressor's side in 1991 who were not speculators who sincerely trusted in Slovenia and to them and their families, perhaps due to an administrative error, suffered. But we shall wait and be warned of the promise which was made here at the second reading, and this is: all unrighteousness shall be corrected. This was a promise made by a very influential coalition Member. Here, of course, we all agree - I hope - that it is necessary to correct the injustices of forced mobilizers into the German army in World War II, materially injured persons in World War II, that once the right of victims of war and post-war killings must be recognised, this is the right to a burial, the right to a grave, which is — that right — is as old as the old human civilization, that it is necessary, however, to admit and eliminate the injustice to war-torn persons with disabilities for Slovenia and so on and so on. We must wash the stains that we, this composition, this call of the National Assembly, have inherited. A promise was made and the word is valid in Novi Slovenija. I hope it's in this coalition, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. As we discussed the law in the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group, we said that we have a very bad situation in the country right now and that, on the basis of this, it is not the right time to reopen certain questions and to reassert some form of just satisfaction or share righteous satisfaction or privilege. In view of the fact that the moment that dictates that individuals have suffered great injustice and great harm has been done to them and that they have been violated by human rights and that we must resolve this on the basis of the European Court's demands, of course this point of advantage is the first one, so that we will support the law in the third reading of the Member and the Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Does anyone want to do it on their own? Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you. Aleš Zalar, Minister of LDS: "There are no compensations that you spoke of." Ladies and gentlemen, €130 million net – according to your Minister. The fact that something goes wrong, as Mr Minister said, will greatly exceed a billion euros. And it's going to cost three times, you're going to give everyone a flat rate, you're going to pay everyone the costs of court, and you're going to have to pay the taxpayers out of your pocket. So together – if I quote the minister: "If anything goes wrong..." and Murphy's law says that if anything goes wrong, it will go wrong – over a billion euros over the next years. These are the compensations to which you have behaved so arrogantly and so highly and have rejected all possible solutions for 10 years. The agreements that have already been signed between me and Dr. Bohinec of the SD species have all fallen because there will be no compensation because there can be no compensation. Today's compensations are here, the fact that we will pay them in a country so benevolent to everyone who wanted to live here and wanted her citizenship, that she has granted more new citizenship in proportion to the number of people and more than any other newly created country in Europe and has even been set as an example by European institutions in the Baltic States, we can be proud of that country. You, at your work, which will now cost us at least 130 and farthest over a billion euros, surely you cannot be. I will, of course, vote against the law and the SDS as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will not support this law in any way, for the last time in the debate, because it is my personal opinion that this law discriminates against the Slovenes and Slovenes, our citizens and citizens. I am convinced that this decision in this law is totally unjustified, that it again makes a difference between our citizens and our citizens and the so-called deleted. The so-called deleted receive a large amount of compensation on one side and, on the other, a host of other privileges. If this is fair, if this is fair in these given circumstances and the given situation, I do not think there is a need to add a lot of words! In addition, I think it is very important: in 1992 there were 250,000 foreigners in Slovenia, of whom 90% of the 250,000 foreigners provided active citizenship, and only 10% of the people I believe to be speculators are left behind. And the Slovenian state, the Slovenian government, this coalition is taking decisions that will burden citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with compensation and the privileges that we will pay for speculators! If it is fair, if it is fair, if it is responsible for our citizens and citizens – it is truly amazing what this coalition and this government allow! And there's something else I won't vote for this law. I am convinced that this government coalition, a transitional left and this government is buying votes, buying votes at the expense of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, also at the expense of pensioners. Today we heard what the Democratic Party of Retired Persons said. Instead of ensuring that pensioners live normally in this country, they support such solutions that are harmful to the Republic of Slovenia and to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u176	Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I will vote against the law for a few reasons. Yesterday's Forum of Economists in Kranj showed where time is going in this country. A few days ago, when we had a night session, I had that same hour stuck here for a microphone, no pointers. The fact is, there is a time to turn around in this marriage. There was a lot about this, but some of you didn't want to, you didn't want to listen, you didn't want to cooperate when some things could be arranged. Apparently, it was a different purpose. The purpose was to somehow support someone who doesn't actually deserve it. That doesn't deserve to be said by 90% of those who have arranged all these things. It is those who warn us today that it is unfair that someone who has speculated all the time is now on the stings of those who have worked, who have paid for what they have created in this country — that they will now return for someone who has speculated all the time. However, with the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we have also supported, this could be regulated but less stressful for our citizens and citizens. By doing so, you are interfering with school meals, you are interfering with pensions, you are interfering with local self - government — in short, you are destroying this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you again very much for your word. Given that I will now be doing what I most object to in business solutions, that when someone on behalf of a parliamentary group has already expressed his position or how the parliamentary group will vote, he will then return to the personal level and again interpret how he will vote, even though he votes the way the parliamentary group will vote. I will support this law for two reasons. The first thing I said was why I'm skeptical, and it's not the time to do it. And the second point was to take it easy. If someone has been wronged and someone has been involved, then this injustice must also be solved. It would be good for you, my dear fellows, to think so. As you think, it's not my question. I'm not going to say, Mr. Visac, you're going to vote like that. This is Mr Visionak's question and this is a constitutional issue. And let us do as we do in the Group of the Democratic Party – I do not mean personally, Mr Vizjak, on you – as we will in our Group of Members. Don't use us because we never do this to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. I see there's still a desire to explain the voice. Dr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u181	If we hadn't picked up on the other side, neither would I. I was going to be completely quiet. Look, don't be a chameleon. It's a problem to say how you wouldn't, but you wouldn't, and you wouldn't, and you wouldn't, and then I'm in. That's the problem. Let me explain my voice. I can tell you're in pain. What's the problem? It is not a problem to implement the judgment of a court. I was in charge of this implementation until March myself, and we also did what was necessary until then. The minister said a little differently the last time. That's what we did. I would point out, however, that nowhere does it say that in the country of Slovenia, which is on its knees, we have to offer almost 50% of what the court has found. We have many judgments of the European Court of Justice that have been confirmed by the fact that it has confirmed the actions of each country, and this country has committed 10 per cent, 15, 20, 25 per cent of the sum originally set. Look, that's the problem. So if the court in our case has awarded 20 or something over 20,000 euros in compensation to individuals, nowhere does it say that we have to give him that much right now. You know, that's the problem. What is painful for Slovenian people; if you are for the correction of injustices, write the law, the one about the material damage that has been waiting for 70 years, perhaps 20 years or so. Then we go in order, and we give it to them first, and then to those who have been swept into the pits, etc. And then there's this one, but not like this. And what matters and what hurts our people is that today those people who said – Todorović, of course – who said first that it would be non-civilisational to take citizenship, but in the first degree it received 17,000 and 54.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, would you like a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u183	Dear Chairman! I propose, given that it is more than clear that the opposition has decided that it will practically explain each voice individually and that it will not work that way, I will say simply, as if so, a little human remember each, how it will be, I suggest you make the application and see who will apply, so that we can prepare ourselves, etc. It's not like we're pulling one of these guys out of the gym. Last but not least, we have this technique that makes this work easier for us, or we will see that it is again some opposition tricks. Of course, all of this is permissible, in accordance with the rules of procedure, but I ask you, President, to do so. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u184	I will respect your suggestion, even though I do not see it in such a way as to draw someone out of the hall. I am opening up an opportunity to explain my voice, but of course you know that it is possible to apply more than once. Someone wants to explain their voice in their own name, please apply. Here you go, Mr. Big Guy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. I will support the law, even though I feel that, given the explanations given by my predecessors, we are still not in the European Community and that we are not in Slovenia alone, that we are not even deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-21-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I'm asking if we can get to the vote. Yes, you can. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 46, for 29. [[It's 46 votes.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 19. 11. In 2013, the second reading of that proposal was carried out. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, decided, on the basis of Article 138, paragraph 1, to carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. No amendments were tabled for the third reading. In view of the adoption of the amendment to Article 11 of the draft law in second reading at the home working body and the adoption of the amendment to Article 15 of the draft law in second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly, Articles 14 and 16 of the draft law to which the Government has drawn up the harmonisation amendment, which, as I have been informed, has already been published on the e-clup. I'm asking the government or Dr. Virant or does he want a word? He doesn't want to. Do Members and Members want the word? They don't want to. So we are concluding a debate that has not actually been and we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We can vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 23. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Anybody want a word here? He doesn't want to. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 21. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 21.]] On the basis of the vote, I note that the law has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We are adjourning the 19th session, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much and good-bye.
