ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 20, paragraph 3, and Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mr Matevž Frangež and Mr Roman Žveglič. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the current ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State to the 7th item of the agenda, the President of the Government who carries out ongoing operations to the 17th item of the agenda, the representative of the State Election Commission and the candidate for the MEP Branet Golubović to the 18th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. Once again to all present a nice greeting. We are moving on to the agenda of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 22 February 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 11th meeting of the assembly is set. We're moving to 18. Period of the day, it's on mental-loving matters. The first item is the designation of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, will act as a Member instead of a Member acting as Prime Minister. Because the MPs are mags. Alenka Bratušek, acting as Prime Minister, cannot act as a Member of Parliament, the State Election Commission has forwarded to the Assembly a decision finding that the right to replace a Magi Member belongs. Alenka Bratušek, when he serves as Prime Minister, Mr Branet Golubovic. The decision of the State Election Commission was addressed by the Commission on the mandate and election, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. Does the Commission's rapporteur want a word? I guess not. Is it possible that someone would like to discuss it on behalf of the Group of Members? I guess not. Do any of the Members and Members want a word? I note that no, so I am closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: At the time when the Member of the Mag. Mr Alenka Bratušek, acting as President of the Government, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member, performs this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members from 4.3.2013 Brane Golubović, born 10.8.1969, residing in Klavčičeva 5, Kamnik. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Mr Branet Golubovic, a fellow Member of Parliament, I invite him to join us and occupy his seat of office and I wish him to perform his duties successfully in the parliamentary seats. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 7 March 2013. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 9 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The question of the opposition's Member of Parliament and the Member of the ruling coalition will be answered by the President of the Government, who is conducting the ongoing business. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers who carry out the ongoing business shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question, so I ask Members and Members to pay attention. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The MP who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister who carries out the current business. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister who carries out the current business shall provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response; in this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that on this point, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Minister of the Interior, who conducts ongoing business, and Dr Žiga Turk, Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, who conducts ongoing business, apologized for today. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first two questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Ivan Janez Janša. Send questions to him first. Majda Potter, the Social Democrats, and then the Mag. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia. The Prime Minister will be the first to ask the question of the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers and other members of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In public publications, it was possible to read in mid-February that agreement was reached at the meeting with the President of the Republic on key three projects for Slovenia. These three projects are the continuation of the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of referendum legislation, secondly, the ratification of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and thirdly, the adoption of the Labour Relations Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act. The third item will expire, I hope, successfully tomorrow at the third meeting of the National Assembly, following the third meeting. I would like to ask you about the continuation of the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of referendum legislation. The leaders of the parliamentary parties were then united that this area should be regulated by a constitutional law that would follow the decision and position adopted at the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. This means that, with regard to possible individual differences in specific definitions, they will make a sincere effort to harmonise, allowing for two-thirds of the support of Members and Members. At its 10th regular meeting on 1 February 2013, the National Assembly considered and decided on a proposal for constitutional amendments relating to the referendum regime. With a very convincing majority of Members and Members, he voted to open the procedure for amending the Constitution and to support the position to draw up a draft constitutional law. These views have been supported by 84 Members and Members. However, it is not possible to overlook an important and significant fact, namely that the Government has not formally defined the proposed constitutional amendments. She did not give her written opinion on the proposal for constitutional amendments, nor did she at the said meeting of the National Assembly not even take note of the word, which is very unusual, especially given how important things we are talking about. So let me make a decision. In the current procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of referendum legislation, the Government has not yet specifically defined this issue. Since the legislative process is already under way in the National Assembly, I ask you: What is the Government's position on amending the referendum legislation? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for the question. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you for the question and thank you for the answer, because you have already given it yourself. The government has not defined this issue, so I cannot provide you with a definition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you. Would you like to ask an additional question? The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for the easy answers, Mr President, you are doing business. However, in accordance with Article 115 of the Constitution, in the course of the ongoing transactions carried out by the Government until the appointment of a new government, the definition of those laws that are already in the middle of the legislative procedure is also included. This is the fact that I read from an opinion that was transmitted when there were many questions in public about what is involved in the current business. It is therefore possible to expect that the Government will have to define, in the context of ongoing business, a legislative proposal in the National Assembly when it comes to restricting the conduct of transactions to ongoing business. The Government did not wish to define this proposal and was in silence when it was not in this position to conduct only ongoing transactions. Although at the outset, I mentioned a meeting with the President of the country, which you attended as the President of the Party. We also know the opinion of the parliamentary group, the largest then coalition parties, but the government's views are not. So I ask you again: Is the Government going to be defined and how is it planned? Will she promote an agreement or not? But this answer, Sir John Janez Janša, I do not know and have not mentioned it, and I will be grateful for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you for asking me again, and I give my word to the President of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you, too, for the re-examination and the re-answer. It is not mandatory for the Government to be defined by all procedures. It can be defined, but it can not be defined. If she does, we'll get to know you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you. Is there a possible desire for a procedural proposal? It doesn't exist. This concludes the question posed by the Magi. Majda Potter. I give the word "magic." Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u10	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished minister, ministers, dear colleague and colleague! Most likely, we all have very similar experiences when we walk through Slovenia and when we talk to people who tell us about the terrible sense of injustice, that we have in the country people who, in their own words, are crowned and absolutely nothing happens to them. You have people who have given credit to your pretty eyes, you have people who have never paid off these loans and somehow put the Slovenian banking system in an uneasy position. Now it's the task of every policy, ours, yours, whatever this banking system is to repair. Sometimes it is difficult for people to understand why taxpayers and all of us together should recover this banking system if we have not caused these crises. But if you come to the fact that the functioning of the banking system is essential for business ideas to be applied and you eventually get new jobs, you know why one of the key priorities of any policy is to rehabilitate the banking system. There were two different options in the world. One is recapitalisation and the other is a bad bank. Our government has decided on this last one. President of the Government, I want to know: How far is the bad bank project? Will the bad bank help those responsible for the situation be held accountable?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you for asking. I give my word to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for asking. This is a question that concerns the essential problem that Slovenia has at this time. A multibillion-dollar financial hole in the Slovenian banking system is a key problem for this country and its taxpayers – and I am afraid that some future generations will also be. It does not claim that there are several concepts for such a situation as in the Slovenian banking system. The recapitalisation is taken into account when the bank is slightly underfunded, not when the largest state bank shares fall to EUR 1 per share. In this case, recovery is required. The law on this was adopted and, by a decision of the Constitutional Court, was also protected from the blockade that threatened the end of last year. And this law is being implemented. The government appointed four non-executive directors to continue the process of establishing this agency for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system. Of these four non-executive directors, three foreign financial experts who have not been involved in the emergence of this problem have addressed such problems in various countries, particularly Scandinavian countries. These names are also in line with the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which is necessary in view of Slovenia's completely formal obligations towards the Eurosystem, because we are part of a common European monetary union. Under-laws are also coordinated with the European Central Bank. Some are already coordinated and accepted. Some are supposed to be in these days, or the government will confirm them as soon as there is harmonisation. Of course, it is up to what policy the future government will be, how fast these procedures will run and whether this law, which now solves or provides an opportunity to solve this key economic and economic problem that the state currently has, whether this law will continue to apply and whether Slovenia will not follow the experiments in the coming weeks and months as to how this problem will be recededed again under the carpet. In other words, there is no awareness in the Slovenian public that this is a key problem that we have. Central Slovenian media, national television, POP TV have reported ten times more on how much Member Vogrin owes to its suppliers than on the billions of debts in Slovenian banks. If we were to sum up the programming time or ink that was poured into the debate and reporting on one and the other problem, we would see that the problem, which is several million times larger for Slovenian taxpayers, was completely out of focus and virtually completely ignored. This treatment of this problem has also led to a four-year delay. We should rehabilitate the Slovenian banking system in 2009, as the other European countries have done, which have faced a similar or minor problem, but this has been neglected, put off, and because of obvious interests, that the situation continues as it has been, but only from Slovenian taxpayers from Slovenian state-owned companies, from the profits of Slovenian state-owned companies, has passed hundreds of millions of euros into broken banks. This did not solve the problem, but it did increase, and the situation was blurred. The key motive behind this is, of course, fear of responsibility. And that's also the key motive for trying to block this law. This law provides for a fourfold extension of the limitation period for offences which in many cases are the main cause of these bad loans.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thanks for the answer. The wish to supplement the answer is expressed. Mr. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u14	When we adopted legislation in 2012 introducing this concept of a bad bank, the parties who might be forming a new government coalition heard a lot of comments, objections and more. I want to know: How do you assess the consequences if a new government decides to reject this concept of a bad bank?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u16	If Slovenia does not continue to rehabilitate the banking system, it will go bankrupt by the end of this year. The President of the National Assembly will do business at that time and we will go to early elections. However, this will not solve the Slovenian banking system either. We will be forced to adopt conditions that will form the basis for an application for international financial assistance in such or other form. There's no big deal here. This problem has been ignored for four years. During this time he grew over his head, not only to this generation of Slovenian taxpayers, but also to the future. Such a policy of ignorance simply does not apply anymore. While it is possible for the European institutions to tolerate this for a while, I doubt, to try another round of recapitalisation, which would mean that the problem will be even greater in one year and that these few 100 million won by increasing the value added tax will only temporarily recharge some of the pockets that are at risk here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you. I note that there is no wish to discuss the answers given by the President of the Government, so I thank the President of the Government who conducts the current business for his reply. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. The first to raise the question is Mr Samo Bevk, Minister of Infrastructure and Space in the role of Minister of Justice and Public Administration, who conducts ongoing business, Mr Zvonko Černač, and Minister of Defence, who conducts ongoing business, Mr Aleš Hojs. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Due to the heavy snowfall in the winter of 2012,2013, Slovenian municipalities had extremely high costs for winter service, which up to twice or three times exceed the costs in normal conditions. There are also many costs due to the damage caused by snow beaches and damage to road infrastructure will only be shown in the spring. The situation in Slovenia can be best illustrated in the case of Idrija. In the 2013 budget adopted, 300,000 euros were foreseen for winter service items. In normal situations, between 200 and 300,000 euros have also actually been spent. This year's costs will be between €800 and €900 000. Additional costs amounting to 100,000 were also caused by damage caused by crawling on fences, intervention costs, firefighting companies and utility companies. Indirect damage to motor vehicles due to numerous reptiles and salting and spring break cannot be assessed at this time. According to the budget, which amounts to 20 million euros, the increased cost of winter service amounts to around 700 000 euros, which represents 3.5% of the total municipal budget. Given Idrija's appropriate spending of 7 million EUR 800,000, this is about 10% of the eligible expenditure, which is a disaster. The Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in Article 8 also includes high snow and snow beaches. The damage caused by a natural or other accident shall include direct damage, intervention costs and measures to prevent harmful consequences of accidents. Article 10 provides that the means to remedy the consequences of disasters from the State budget shall be allocated to remedy the consequences of a natural disaster on matters owned by a municipality, in accordance with the provisions of the law, provided that the municipality in the area in which the consequences of the natural disaster have been incurred has also provided for the recovery of the consequences of the budget. I ask Minister Zvonk Černač and Mr Aleš Hojs about measures to remedy the damage that has occurred, which can also be defined as a natural disaster. Ministers, Mr Hojs and Mr Černač, I propose inviting Slovenian municipalities to present the damage and costs caused by the extremely severe winter. On the basis of an analysis of these data, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should take appropriate action. I thank the ministers in advance for the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you for asking. I give the floor first to Mr Zvonk Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you so much for asking. Nice greetings to all present! Indeed, due to the situation in which we were in the winter, the costs of cleaning, gliding and other costs associated with winter service increased not only at the level of the municipalities and local communities, but also at the level of the whole country. It must also be said that so far, no concrete proposals have been made to date either by individual municipalities or by their associations in this regard. The data also show that similar situations have already been faced in the past, in recent years, that periods have been set which have required significantly greater consumption and commitment of funds to carry out the winter service, and there have been periods when less of these resources have been required in relation to the planned ones. In the past, this situation has been resolved somehow by reallocations under existing municipal and state budgets financial plans. It was the first step, and I believe it will be the same this year. If, after the end of this winter season, it is estimated that funds that cannot be secured in this way will have to be approached by other solutions, resources will be found to cover this exceptional situation in other areas, but then these measures are linked to changes or rebalancies of the municipal and state budget, given the frameworks we know in the context of appropriate spending. On this occasion, let me say that, at the Ministry I am running this year, we have foreseen significantly more resources for the 2013 budget to modernise the state road network than we did last year. Approximately a third of this money, which will be directed towards more complex, not only maintenance, but also modernisation of the road network, will be around EUR 25 million per year more than it was last year. With these measures, we will also largely remedy the part of the damage that will occur due to the exceptional winter conditions this year. The amendment of the law adopted last year applies to both railways and roads. About 100 million of them are directed to railways and 50 to roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you. Does Mr. Alesh Hoys want a full response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Nice greetings for me, too! In accordance with the law on protection against natural and other disasters, the mechanism for assessing damage may begin if the preliminary assessment given from the municipality's seat is at the level of 0.3 per cent of the state budget, which is about 2.5 million today. I must say, as Mr Cernač has already said, there has been no initiative from any of the Slovenian municipalities for once in this direction. I would like to make some well-meaning suggestion that in the spirit of this law before the natural and other calamities, whose article you also quoted, honourable Member, I must nevertheless say that it is there that when it speaks of high snow, it is explicitly defined that natural disasters and high snow are somehow cumulatively defined if human lives, animals and so on are at risk. I would not like to come or anyone who will be in this place, it seems not wise for me to come into a situation where every greater snow will be defined as a natural disaster, because in this case Slovenia will not be able, not only to assess this damage, but also not to repay it in the next few decades. The fact is, at the Ministry of Defence and, consequently, at the ministries in question, on the basis of the assessment of damage from the past, we already have quite a backlog both in agricultural areas in recent floods, so that I do not actually see where, at this moment, the budget of the State could be budgeted and, on the basis of such legislation as the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, this year's snow could be justified as a natural or other accident. However, if such initiatives come from the municipalities requiring evaluation, we will immediately launch a mechanism for this evaluation at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thanks for the answers. I see that Mr Bevk only wants an addition to these answers. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I thank both ministers for their answers. The initiatives for this issue have also come to my attention from some Slovenian municipalities as a Member, so I also took advantage of today's last opportunity within this government to ask the question of how the cost of winter service can be fixed in this extremely severe winter, given the costs incurred for municipal budgets, and I believe that they will also be considered a natural disaster for the state. Not every few years is such a huge cost, perhaps for 10 years or more, but we know that we are facing floods or other disasters more often than with such exceptional snow as it was in this case. I therefore propose that the competent ministry undertake the collection of these data. I also call on the umbrella organisations of the municipalities to contact the government and the individual municipalities with the question of initiating the procedures discussed by Minister Hojs. I would also like to say that the Law on the Financing of Municipalities in Article 20a, when it speaks of the amount of appropriate spending for a municipality, does not foresee and include such exceptional costs. Here is just a figure to determine the appropriate consumption per capita corrected by the ratio of area, length of local roads, etc. It is not defined here, for example, if we compare how much costs some coastal municipality or travel costs have with the winter service from this aspect of the mountain municipality, municipalities that are higher in Slovenia, and these are not so small. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you, too, for complementing this thinking. Does any of the ministers want to give an additional answer? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u26	Just for a little while. The data will be obtained and, depending on the extent to which the appropriate solutions or proposals have been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you. You still want to give Mr. Aleš Hojs an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u28	Just enough to explain. If such a proposal is made by these congregations or by anyone on the part of the local community, we will immediately begin the damage assessment process. However, it is one way or another that only evaluation, preparation of the material for the government and then the decision of the Government itself lasts for quite some time, more than a month, so it will be the turn of the government. Otherwise, we will clearly start this procedure if these initiatives come and we already assess that the damage shown is greater than 0.3 per cent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Hoys. I take it that we are done with this issue. We are moving on to the next question posed by the Magi. Ms Katarina Hočevar, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who conducts current business, Mr Franz Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you. My question concerns the topic that has been discussed formally and informally with the Minister over the past year, namely the quality of the external air in Zasavje. For your hearing and not least for visiting Zasavje and listening not only to the officials but also to the residents, I thank you on this occasion. However, we can find that due to excessive excesses in PM 10 particles, the European Commission has already warned Slovenia in February 2009, then in November 2009, that a finding was issued, without the imposition of monetary sanctions, that the previous government was preparing an external air quality regulation in Zasavje and that you have undertaken a plan under your ministry to improve air quality in the municipalities of Zagorje, Trbovlje, Hrastnik. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: How far did you get this procedure? In September, as I know, a public debate was concluded on this plan and I ask you: Where are we today and not the last time we will finally be mammals, no matter what kind of government we have, this underlaw has also seen in practice or, above all, its implementation? However, if we are talking about the issue of air pollution in Zasavje, we are not able to go beyond the rumors, the information that has been emerging in the last period to prepare an amendment to the regulation on emissions of substances into the air from stationary sources of pollution at your Ministry. I am interested in the professional basis for such a decision. What is the purpose of these changes, and why has your ministry decided to do so, if so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you for asking. I give my word to Mr. Franc Bogovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you for those two questions. If I divide them into two sets, that's how I'll answer. First of all, as regards the regulations relating to Zasavje and other areas. As far as Savlja is concerned as you said, we took this matter seriously last year. In June, we had a committee of the National Assembly in the region, then opened public hearing 26.7. Ten. 2012 and then coordinated and 4. 12. 2012 also addressed to the municipalities for adoption at the municipal councils. 14 days ago, there was a meeting with representatives of the congregations where we pointed out this. The municipalities have not yet addressed these management plans. It is a fundamental dilemma whether they will first carry out this debate and also adopt these regulations on the municipal councils, and thus certain obligations for themselves, or whether we should have already had the funds in the budget. It is perfectly normal for the measures listed here, which have also been mutually agreed, to be adopted, provided for in the Regulation, to be adopted at the municipal level, to be adopted by the Government and then followed by an annual action plan, which should then also be included in the budget. In so doing, I call on all three municipalities to adopt this Regulation so that the Regulation can enter into force and then proceed with the procedure. As far as the measures are concerned, several of these items are already foreseen via the Eco Facility. However, on the basis of the regulation and the measures envisaged there, it will certainly be possible to plan new measures and thus to upgrade this Regulation. The same is true for other areas, as we have prepared quite a few of these regulations last year. As regards the issue of amendments to the regulation on air emissions from stationary sources of pollution. As of last year, we have also applied this Regulation on the basis of the requirements of the past. What is crucial in this Regulation is that this regulation, which regulates, comes from Zasavje, and this is a general regulation in the Slovenian area, on the basis of which 26 Slovenian companies have also obtained environmental permits. The Regulation, which was drawn up in 2007, also has one of the provisions that practically prevents these companies from making any updates on their devices, since the Regulation states that if they represent 3% of all emissions in the space in some area, environmental permits can no longer be obtained as an existing device, but rather a new IPPS permit. It is 26 companies, many of which have appealed through the Chamber of Commerce for several years to this amendment to this Regulation. We have followed the objective in this Regulation, for the first time, if these devices are located within the areas covered by these Regulations, they are already dealt with in this Regulation and measurements, monitoring and measures to reduce these emissions must be carried out there. Even in 2007 these provisions were quite strict. We are now instituting such a solution that those who would receive, on the basis of such an amended regulation, which has been prepared and put into interdepartmental coordination and public debate, should reduce emissions by 10% over the next six months and then by another 10%. This is also a matter that is indirectly linked to the procedures carried out by the Environment Agency with Lafarg, in no way interfered with these procedures, and no one at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has accepted it for this reason, but because of all 26 environmental permits issued, because we are assessing that the regulation is now too much and that in this case it is necessary to move forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Franc Bogovich. I see he wants a mag. Katarina Hotchevar to request a supplement to the answer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I thank you for this part of the answer, Your Honor. And for the first part, I'd like to ask you. If I understood you correctly, the actual financial incision, as far as the air quality improvement plans are concerned, is still in the mist, if I put it that way. Will you now place part of the financial burden on the congregations? They probably don't have the resources to do that in their budgets. I'm afraid this submarital act is going to stop again, I'm going to say, because there won't be enough funding. However, for the second part of the amendment to the Regulation, I am interested in: Can you ensure that, as a result of the amendment to the regulation, we do not breathe any worse air or that the amendments to the regulation do not result in improvements in air quality but in deterioration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Franc Bogovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u36	As regards the first question: the financial plan follows the adoption of the regulation. But we know all who are the ingredients of these regulations and what someone is responsible for. It is about air in environments where local communities too are – and the primary local community is responsible for such areas. By establishing these sub-legislative acts and establishing areas, mechanisms shall be put in place to enable the State to specifically provide for measures for those areas. This is certainly a whole range of road construction related to dust coatings on public roads and small combustion plants. It means things for which much needs to be done in the local environment itself. I am afraid that this brief contact in Zasavje, if I may say so, is due to the fact that someone expects this to be determined in Ljubljana, a small one will be set up in Ljubljana, and Ljubljana will come to Zasavje to solve this problem, which reminds me of any other problem in Zasavje, and I would not now talk about it, but in this part a proactive relationship with both sides will be needed. However, it is certainly the basis of such a regulation, as we have every year’s programme, I do not know, for the Valley of Meží – this year we have provided a million funds, we have succeeded and also last year’s was carried out to a lesser extent. Similarly, on the basis of the regulation adopted, I do not know whether a higher share of co-financing will have to be generated from year to year in small combustion plants — those living in the specified areas — will have an advantage in the tendering. In those matters where these are the basic competences of the congregation, the congregation will certainly also have to devote some of its financial resources to this area, and much needs to be done in raising people’s awareness, for in particular the area of small combustion plants has proved to be the most critical in this case. As you know, even in another acute area, the area of chimneys, a draft inventory of these combustion plants has now been completed. When we connect these bases and see what is necessary, what is the current situation, I think that only those real measures for the future can be planned. In this part, I believe that good cooperation and proactive relations are needed on both sides, and once again I think that the appeal to the municipalities to adopt these regulations is in place as soon as possible. As far as other matters are concerned, yes, I confirm a reduction of 10% in half a year and an additional 10% below.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you, Minister, for supplementing your response. I note that we have also concluded this question and are moving on to the next question raised by Mrs Iva Dimic, the Minister without a Resource, responsible for Slovenians in the place and in the world of ongoing business, Mrs Ljudmili Novak. Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, President. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! Dear Minister Ludmila Novak! Many citizens and citizens and representatives of Slovenian foreign organisations have turned to the New Slovenia Group and probably also to your office in the past days. They are surprised and outraged by the announcement made by the new Prime Minister of the Government to abolish the independent Office of the Government for Slovenians in substitution and worldwide form and to rejoin the independent Ministry of Culture. They express both substantive and organisational concerns. The main content concerns can be summed up in order to result in a marked and unacceptable narrowing of the protection function of the Republic of Slovenia to the Slovenian minority. Since the Office currently operates in a number of areas, such as very important economic, cultural, international, and in many other areas, it would be totally impossible for me to do so. Because of all the above, I ask you the following questions: How do you comment on today's meeting of the Committee on Justice and Public Administration, which dealt with the amendment of the Government Act and where an amendment was tabled and voted that the Office of the Government for Slovenians, in place and around the world, remains and operates in an unaltered organizational form? On the other hand, I'd like to know: How do you comment on why it is necessary to keep the Slovenian Office in place and around the world as an independent body with the role of Minister for this area? What are the future challenges for the Office in this area? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you for asking. I give the floor to Mrs. Ludmila Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u40	Dearly-reverred present, well-welcome! I will first say that I must express my satisfaction that this amendment has been voted on; hence that the Office remains as a single body and also as a minister. I was just at Brežina near Trieste yesterday at the 120th anniversary of Iga Grudn's birth. The great writer Boris Pahor was also present and expressed great disappointment over this step back. I'm sure it would be a step back. In 2006 we adopted the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders, which stipulates that the Office is independent and chaired by the Minister. All of this was accepted with great satisfaction by Slovenians in their place and in the world, and I have heard several times from their mouths that they feel that Slovenia understands that they are even more connected with their homeland and that we are actively helping them to solve their problems. So, the main function of this office is to maintain relations, contacts with our foreigners, Slovenians around the world, to promote the preservation of their national identity, language, culture, and, of course, assistance in various areas, especially when problems arise with the country where they live, when they do not pay for funds, or when other problems arise. In this relationship with the Slovenians, half a million of them live around the world, over 120 thousand Slovenes in the place, we have been examples of other countries. Often I was asked by foreign ambassadors how Slovenians have arranged this area, what we do, what are the advantages, and they want to follow our example. So it would be a shame if we took a step back here to the great sadness and disappointment of the Slovenians. Why does it need a minister's office? Only malicious people claim that Slovenians around the world are just political emigration and that this minister is to travel the world. I can tell you that many times I have visited the residence and from Ljubljana to all our foreigners in all four countries there are about one and a half hours of driving by car and all my travels or visits are probably less expensive together than one trip of the Minister to Brussels, where he must go to a particular meeting. How much does it mean to all these people to be visited by a minister from Slovenia, but I cannot tell you. Especially when I visited Slovenians in more remote places, such as Gorski Kotar or in the Kanal Valley, in Venice. I was often told that for the first time there is a minister, either from Slovenia or Italy, with us. I have often experienced that someone with tears in his eyes accepted a confession, a paper confession, which I gave him because he worked all the time for the Slovenia, for the Slovenian society, for the preservation of the Slovenia. It doesn't matter who lives in the place; whether they're Slovenians or someone who doesn't care what their nationality is. That is why I want to see that in the future there are also great new challenges – every day I have faced new challenges, new ideas. For example, in certain countries, the problem is that they do not receive regular cash payments from that country. Therefore, it will also be necessary for Slovenia to re-engage and pressure the country authorities, the state authorities, to fulfil their obligations. And if the minister is in charge of this area, he also has a much greater weight when he's talking to his associates on the other side of the border than if there's only one official. That is why this function of minister is important. However, the challenges are in addressing financial problems, in the field of legislation. It would be a bad sign if we were to reduce our protection to a minority, because in some countries new laws have been proposed that are actually working for our nationalities communities. Then there are challenges to cooperation in the field of economy, community integration, youth; in short, work is great, and I want Slovenia to continue to be a good mother to Slovenians in place and around the world, and to do so with the heart of the minister who will perform this function.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thanks for the answer. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you. In this place, I would like to thank you for your heart work in your ministry. Above all, I would like to state on my own that I want the future minister to act so wholeheartedly in this ministry as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you for your wishes. I therefore note that we have also concluded this issue. We are moving on to the next question that Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, who is currently doing business, Dr Žigi Turku, but is absent today. Mr. Fish, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Maribor Art Gallery is the central museum-gallery institution for visual art in north-eastern Slovenia and the second largest such institution in the country. Nevertheless, the position of the art gallery has been very insurmountable for more than ten years, since the building or entire infrastructure in which the art gallery is currently operating has already been quite long and there has been no investment in this infrastructure in recent years, as the construction of the new Maribor Art Gallery has been planned for many years, which has not yet occurred for various reasons. It appears that there will not be much time left, since by the decision of your ministry or government, 10 million euros, which the Pahor government had made two years ago, is more accurate 20. 1. 2011, designed to co-finance the construction of the art gallery, re-routing the construction of infrastructure in the Pivka Military History Park area. The decision to redistribute funds is even more unusual, as the Municipality of Maribor, according to my data, has done everything in its power and has met all the demands of your ministry to begin construction as soon as possible. Since 2010, when the first project solution for the new art gallery has been selected, through complications with Hungarian architects, the conclusion of a co-financing contract with an investor of the Institute for the Construction of Maribor, the purchase of land and numerous changes to the project documentation, and until today, numerous activities have been carried out, which have gone in the direction of finding solutions for the early start of the Maribor Art Gallery. During the entire year 2012, an intensive correspondence took place between the Maribor Municipality and your ministry, among which the Municipality of Maribor has always followed the instructions and demands of your Ministry and has exemplaryly provided all the explanations, despite the confirmation of the way the project was carried out by the former Ministry of Culture on 16 December 2011. So in the past year, things have obviously been moving more towards stopping the art gallery project than to realizing it. It is sad, in particular, that, after a successful project, the European Capital of Culture 2012 in Maribor there is no new cultural infrastructure that would clearly outline the direction of further cultural development in the city. What was the main reason for repealing point 4 of the Decision? Why did the Ministry condition the project? When will the funds be back? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you for asking me that question. At the same time, I would like to inform you that Dr. Giga Turk will give a written answer because he is absent today. That is why I am also concluding this question. We are moving on to the next question that Mr Jožef Horvat will ask, namely, the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who is engaged in ongoing business, Mr Franz Bogovic. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister, distinguished Minister Franz Bogovich! First of all, allow my card to be elected President of the Slovenian People's Party. Apparently, this function of yours started very well, which was still a problem on Friday 1 March, today is no longer the 4th of March – at least as regards the waste dump of Dobrava Ormož, which will be granted an IPPC environmental permit tomorrow at the latest. A good start to my question. Let's do it in a row. Mr Minister, just before the bad year of April 2012, I asked you publicly about your views and the planned measures to resolve the complex waste disposal situation. The Pahor’s government or its Ministry of Environment and Space closed 11 regional landfills by inspection, affecting more than a third of Slovenian municipalities or their citizens. Among them, for example, the congregation of Ormož. Then you answered me with optimism and determination to solve this very serious problem — as you called it — at the shortest possible time, because it causes costs and problems for the municipalities and their inhabitants. You have completed your answer by ensuring that there are already several landfills just before solving the problem, including Ormož, and that all those involved in this process have the task of taking this matter into their hands immediately and, as soon as possible, obtaining environmental consensus after the shortest procedures. As it is said, on 1 March 2013, we were able to find, unfortunately, that at least some things, including Ormož, as we were recently informed in a letter from the almost desperate mayor of this municipality, had not even moved from a dead point. In view of my behaviour, I suspect that you, Mr Minister, have really done everything you could to make a great deal of effort, but that you have faced the greatest problem of our country, with a tough bureaucratic apparatus of services that is probably still operating under too much of that legislation, and which no one in this country, nor a minister, seems to have been able to influence. For the sake of all this, Mr. Minister, I ask: First time. What has been done since April 2012 to date in the field of the above-mentioned issue? Another time. How do you see the possibility of having an impact on the normalisation of procedures before state institutions or on the functioning of bureaucracy in the direction of faster and professional decision-making, which is not the last thing we deserve from citizens? Third time. When will the problems of municipalities with closed landfills be resolved, thus preventing the enormous increase in costs and thus the burden of citizens paid for waste management? For your answer, Mr. Secretary, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you for asking. I give my word to Mr. Franc Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u48	I am really grateful for this question, and as you said, the decision will be signed today, but unfortunately there is no such thing as to be able to ask a question from the Member State, and on the basis of a question from the Member State, the decision will be issued the next day. There is a lot of work and procedures to be done to make this happen. I am also happy to tell you about the other activities that have taken place this year. As we all know in this country, last spring we had a real threat that Slovenian waste would remain on the road. I have been the chairman of various administrations in the public sector for a number of years, and I think we are talking too often about this bureaucratic, non-operational public administration. Colleagues working in the Environment Agency in this area can be commended as former colleagues, because I think we have made a big move this year. There were also some personnel changes, but that didn't affect that much. Most of those people who were then present remained the same. But it is true that we were all sitting together, both the Directorates of the Ministry, the Inspection and the Agency, and we were looking for solutions, a way for these solutions. Since we have seen where the main problem is, we have also invited local communities to actively solve problems. This method of solving problems is not such that when the inspector comes and closes the landfill, the next day you call a press conference and say that the problem is that there will be no place left to dump the waste. Unfortunately, in municipal landfills, this is often the case, unlike industrial ones, where all but one have things arranged. This year we went this way and with many Slovenian municipalities we reviewed the situation. These environmental permits are mainly a problem of draining water, and there must be clear monitoring that old landfills do not adversely affect our groundwater. The technical and financial problem was the financial guarantees in this part. During this time we issued the following environmental permits: Leskovec, which is the end of the valley, Tunkovec, Rogaška Slatina, Kovor, Gorenjska, Puconci landfill and re-decision on RCERO Celje. I have before me an answer that I have just signed today, because this is a regular response that we are also giving to the European Commission: today we have 8 landfills with environmental permits, there are 6 more in the process, one of these six is the one for which the decision was signed today, and the other will still be in March and April and will certainly be resolved positively because, as I have already said, we have gone along the path of finding these solutions. Once these environmental permits have been issued, Slovenia has until 2030 and continues to have sufficient disposal space, including two so-called reserve locations, so that the re-absorbing of this right will not take place in the Slovenian space by the holders of this right to charge waste to other municipalities. In order not to read everything in order, we can also provide you with a written answer. A whole series of negative decisions have also been issued in order to close it, otherwise Slovenia will start paying daily fines, which must be said openly. Thus, 10 landfills are strictly closed by an inspection, also monitoring and sentencing according to the agreement, because some speculate and rather pay 10,000 euros than legally dispose of waste, so colleagues will continue to do so. As I said before, they're preparing these solutions. Further solutions are also foreseen: the landfill of Globoko, which is in Trebnje, which is the so-called reserve location, then the Stara Gora in Novi Gorica, the dump site of Spaja Valley, CERO Gaj, where we are looking for solutions. As far as this area is concerned, I also have an operational programme for the management of municipal waste. This is a municipal waste management strategy, the material is in government procedure, and it went through all public decommissioning processes, through coordination, through inter-ministerial coordination. If the General Secretariat of the Government assesses that this will also be accepted, we can also have a strategy adopted this week at the government's meeting – otherwise, there is much happiness for those who will continue with this strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thanks for the answer. Mr. Horvath has the wish to make a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I fully understand, Mr Minister, that my question addressed to you on Friday 1 March did not affect the issue of this IPPC environmental permit for a designated landfill in Ormož, possibly the one in April 2012. What you've said and what I've been monitoring your work, I think you can hand over your work to your successor with some personal satisfaction on the basis of what you've done in this one good year. I believe that your colleagues working at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment will continue to work so hard. My purpose was not to criticize them, but perhaps it is necessary to reflect on them, but in our house, in the National Assembly, if in some segments we may not still have too complicated legislation, and I am heartily aware that we have only one environment, only one Earth, only one of our planets, which we need to protect and in good condition to hand over to our explorers. When you, Mr. Minister, hand over your business, please also point out to your successor the Pomurski voivodship project, which is vital not only for Pomurje but for the whole of Slovenia. That was more or less my comment, I have no particular additional question. I thank the Minister again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you, too. Mr. Bogovich, would you like another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In fact, you have placed two more correct emphasis. The first is about simplifying legislation. With the package in the middle of the year, with some minor adjustments, some procedures have already been re-established, and we have been very careful not to go to the expense of the environment, but that something that requires concession can actually be subdued by water permit, because otherwise the procedures have only been duplicated or similar. The Agency also has a good leader, he was also appointed to the Government and comes from this Agency after 12 years of operation at the Agency. When I visited in the last month, it was a very clear definition and direction to prepare, together with the Directorate for the Environment – say those who are working in nature to implement this legislation – and there are also a number of small steps that are taking key steps in this direction so that the same people – because the number of people is the same – cannot increase the number of these people – focus on those projects, on those problems that are acute and of great importance, but not on the fact that they are spinning in some bureaucratic structure. As for the Pomerania pipeline itself, we had last Monday’s last coordination — the eighth in this mandate — that we had done with the mags. It's a crane. Thus, in tendering procedures, the water system A, called the Lenda system end, as well as the water system C, is said to be a closet. Similarly, it will be a short finding for Goričko – says Murska plus the northern part, against Goričko – whether this project will go into the tender to a reduced extent during this period or in the next one. I also think that this progress, with 12 active projects at the beginning of last year's mandate, is at the end of 23 active projects and that it is now in call 15 to 20 – we will see how many colleagues will be able to finalize on the ground of these tender documents – it provides the basis that we have in June, July, instead of what we had last year – 12 active projects, I think, 35 active projects. This means that we will be able to draw on the 130 million to 150 million a year of European funds, as available in this year and in the next two years, in contrast to the fact that we were able to absorb 50 million in 5 years earlier and last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you for further clarification. I therefore note that we have also concluded this issue and are moving on to the next question that will be posed by the Magi. Borut Ambrožič, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, who conducts ongoing business, Mr Franz Bogovic. Mr. Borut Ambrožič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, to the rest of the National Assembly! The Slovenian lynx has been protected from shooting since 1993, unlike the bear and the wolf that resides in the territory of Slovenia. In addition to a disease that represents an extremely high mortality rate in this animal species, it is a problem of this species, extinction, to seek out in particular in a related relationship. The current relative level of the population moving on Slovenian soil is at the level of the brother-sister. This has consequences for the newly populated population in 1973. It can be said that 40 years have passed since three males and three females were repopulated from Slovakia, which could be applied to a successful new population five years or ten years ago. However, in the past months or year, the found dead animals point to a major problem, which at present points to the absolute risk of extinction of this species on Slovenian soil, which the Ministry and other partners, including the Biotechnical Faculty and others, are aware of. They launched a project in which they would like to repopulate the ris in Slovenia with the help of hunters from Switzerland. In spite of all that has been said, the project, which is valued at EUR 200 000, has been a major asset to the unprecedented funding scheme so far. That's why I'm asking the minister a question: How does the Ministry intend to provide adequate funding with other partners for the proposed project? At what stage is the project currently underway? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you for asking. I give my word to Mr. Franc Bogovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for this question, which I think is also publicizing this problem, which, as you said, is also being addressed by the Ministry. It is also true that all of your findings are that such a small population has really gone into this problem, which is also largely due to related mating and the end of the disease that comes from it. That's why, as you said before, it was already 2. 10. The Commission, which was appointed, has begun to draw up an action plan to address this problem – the resolution of the lynx. In this part, activities also took place in this direction, as you said, to take the initiative that came from Switzerland to make 2 to 4 rice, other specimens, donate, in this way come into this room rice that is not related to ours. As far as this is concerned, it's 11. Ten. 2012 was also a meeting in Masun, according to Illyrian-Bistriska, where it was discussed in the round of the Ministry of Agriculture, Biotechnical Faculty, Institute of Forests, together with the Swiss expert, and this offer was discussed. The agreement is that we are going this way so that we can all prepare ourselves together for this matter this year. This is an immigration, and it is also right that an appropriate communication matter is carried out, and it also seeks out a sponsor of some kind. We are pleased that, if I may say so, other Slovenian lynx have been included in this action – those who took part in the Olympic Games in Sochi a month or 14 days ago in Denmark, saying, the Hockey Union of Slovenia, and also with their help, let us light up this problem to the public. There are also conversations with colleagues from the Croatian side, because we share the same population of lynx, so it is also desirable or urgent for them to cooperate. A group of hunting organisations and experts have already started working on these strategic documents. The documents will be prepared in the first half of this year, otherwise it is envisaged that this migration will take place in the following year. In the framework of ministerial items, we have also provided 30,000 euros this year for these activities that are needed this year. You have already mentioned the dimension of this project, and given that it is a classic environmental project, which also falls within the framework of the Habitat Directives, it is preparing to be one of such more difficult "live" projects in the next financial perspective and thus have the resources provided. All the activities mentioned above are under way and are also provided for this year's preparations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thanks for the answer. Do you want a request to complete the response? No, so the answer was appropriate. I also conclude this question. We are moving on to the next question posed by the Magi. Majda Potrát, Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, who conducts ongoing business, Dr. Žigi Turku, who is absent today. You want a word? Mag. Maja Potrat, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'm asking Dr. Gigi Turk one more time. On 19 February, we tabled an interpretation of the Minister's work and responsibility in the Group of Social Democrats. The interested and the general public accepted this fact with approval. The responses received only strengthen the validity of our move, and although the Minister refused to interpellate as unfounded in his words, his actions after the intervention only strengthens our position that the interpretation was justified. One such action is an inadequate response to the public's warnings about Vib's actions. Amendment of the creation act without prior public publication, appointment of the Director; these two only continue what has already started with the ZUJF and are referred to as a threat to Slovenian film production. The public is also upset by the presentation of proposals for legal solutions in the field of primary, secondary and higher education, which are often presented as justified, and this is not true. Thirdly, it would also mention an invitation to tender for the award of concessions published in the Official Journal on Friday, of the one part, and of the one-day deadline for application. As a government and as a minister who should only be engaged in ongoing business, I do not think there is any legitimacy for introducing new relations into higher education. The award of concessions for programmes in the fields of study is not the first case in the field of living, social science and technology to provide budget support to private higher education. During the year of planned weakening of public universities, when, among other things, the co-financing of a doctoral study to private colleges gave a few million public funding, only what has already been done continues. Finally, the Court of Auditors also discussed the usefulness and cost-effectiveness of spending public funds on private education. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What is the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport intending to do during the course of ongoing business? I expect the Minister to write a written answer. Given how quickly he was able to write the reply to the interpolation, this answer to the written question should not lead to excessive problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you, too, for asking the question. At the same time, I would like to inform you that Minister Giga Turk, due to his absence, will submit a written answer to your question. Someone wanted procedural. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I expected you to respond, because this was not a question sent and it was not an initiative. Colleague Majda Potrat abused the rules of procedure for comments and continued the pamphlet style used in the interpretation. I don't think she asked any questions about the Minister's activities either, but she asked some hypothetical question about the future action of the Minister. I would really expect you to warn her that such pamphlets in the framework of the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs will end, because it is anti-business and unworthy of Members of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you for that warning, too. That's what we're wearing out, please? [[...]] He's a procedural mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd expect you to protect me. You have accepted my question, and my question was also explicitly raised. It's not about any abuse. Mr Jerovšek, you can smile left and right as much as you want, but my question was clear: What does the Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport intend to do during the course of ongoing business? The current transactions with Article 115 of the Constitution are entrusted to the Minister and Government. And what I am interested in is in this and it is not a business abuse of what the Minister intends to do in this regard, given that the invitation was issued after the regular mandate of this Government has expired, because on 1 March the stage began when the Minister has only ongoing transactions that he can perform. The invitation to tender shall not fall within the framework of ongoing business. This is an issue that is very explicit, and it is not possible to talk about business abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-04-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you, too, for this additional explanation. Once again, I would like to point out undeniably: the question raised at this meeting has been raised and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Dr Žiga Turk has to answer the question raised in writing, so that no one can change this fact. I therefore note that we have completed our parliamentary questions. We have exhausted all the questions, and I thank the President of the Government, the ministers and ministers who are doing business again for the answers given. Since there have been no proposals by Members to discuss the response of both the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers who are engaged in ongoing business, I also conclude this agenda item with this conclusion. I also interrupt the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue tomorrow, 15 minutes after the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you, and have a nice day.
