ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 52nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Mrs Irena Tavčar, Mr Janez Ribič, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Ivan Simčič, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Srečko Meh by 12 noon and Mag. Matthew Tonin. I also invited representatives of the government to the meeting, and I welcome all those present. We are moving on to the setting of the agenda of the 52nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 18 December 2013 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We are moving on to a decision and I propose that you check the functioning of the voting apparatus before making a decision. Can we vote? We're voting on the agenda. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 52nd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is an ad hoc proposal recommended in connection with the resolution of a billion-dollar bank hole in Slovenian banks. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the assembly by a group of 26 MEPs and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State, co-workers of the Ministry of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome! A good week ago, we received amounts for the bank hole, amounting to 4.8 billion for 8 Slovenian banks of 17, plus 450 million for Probank and Factor Bank, 200 million for the recapitalisation of the Bank's Claims Management Company, and this company will also issue bonds for 1.6 billion for contested loans. In addition, the Gorenje Bank and Banka Celje need to be recapitalised, if they do not do so themselves within 6 months, it is likely that an additional EUR 441 million will have to be provided. 70% of all banks or banking markets were reviewed. They are not inspected and we do not know what bank holes are like in the SID bank, the Land Bank, the Labour Custody, the Vipava Diners, the Lon Diners and also in some foreign banks. These weren't covered. On the basis of the procedures laid down by the European Central Bank and the European Commission, these banks are likely to be recapitalised or reviewed in the coming weeks or months. The payment for the days before the recapitalisation was EUR 3 billion two days ago. EUR 3 billion was given by Slovenian taxpayers. For Nova Credit Bank Maribor about 870 million, 590 million for Banka and a billion and a half for Nova Ljubljanska Banka. 3 billion means that after 13 years we have recapitalised banks, we have already recapitalised several of them, but that big first bailout of banks ended in 1996 and was about a billion in today's money. No one was responsible for the first rehabilitation in 1996, and no one was responsible for it anywhere. The question is whether this will be the case now. In the meantime, public debt has increased to 75% of gross social product, amounting to around €27 billion, which means that every Slovenian citizen or citizen is in charge of €13 000,500, which of course means a very large debt. In addition, it must be said that Slovenia is in debt on a closed market with 4.85% of the interest on bonds and that 4.85% of the interest is very high. And here is the question for the minister: Will he today reveal the secret buyer of these bonds, for which Slovenia pays such high interest? And second question: Why did Slovenia not go to the ESM mechanism for assistance, especially because yesterday it was said by Mr Möderndorfer that the talks had run and that negotiations had also been ongoing? We also want to know what the terms are. This information is rightly expected today by Members and Members, and we also expect answers to these questions. Two days ago, each Slovenian and every Slovenian paid a thousand 500 euros to recapitalise the three banks. The final bill, this was essentially an advance, for banking banditism in Slovenia, as Der Spiegel magazine calls it, is still coming, probably not finished. And with these figures, if I add to them another 100 million-million-dollar recapitalisation that we have paid in recent years for these state banks, we rightly ask whether banks, especially state banks, weapons of mass destruction of Slovenia and the home of greed in Slovenia. And whether these recapitalisations are the solution to this banking banditry. Some today may open champagne and open champagne and celebrate during these weeks. The President of the Government thus from Brussels shows satisfaction with the events in Slovenia regarding banks. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not taken any measures, recommendations on liability, responsibilities of members of the boards of supervisors, members of the Board of the Bank of Slovenia, or recommendations – we know that the Bank of Slovenia is independent in this regard – neither in terms of staff policy, especially in banks that have received recapitalisation or state aid. And in this place, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also not presented any measures to move forward, how banks will operate in advance, how economic growth will rise, how unemployment will decrease, and, after all, there is no guarantee that banks will start lending to the economy. The reasons for such a situation certainly stem from the past. These are share parking, which were possible, a way of privatising through stock parking, through which actual ownership in companies was concealed, the concentration of capital was concealed and so on. Financial holding companies - Infond Holding, Maksima Holding, Center Investments, Bell One, Bell Two and so on. Share parking was intended to be restricted in 2005, but it was then that the media couped the government of the week, a defeat against anyone who wanted to prevent the former social property from becoming owned by the elite, which was gathered around the left-wing political parties. At that time, there was also a vote of confidence, a reintroduction of the current government and legislation, a new acquisition legislation, a new or complementary company law, a market for financial instruments, and the Agency for the Market in Securities and the Office for the Protection of Competition were adopted. Another reason. Manager's takeovers. With management acquisitions in Slovenia, we actually uncontrolledly wanted to privatise the former social enterprises by obtaining secured, poorly insured or unsecured loans, mainly on the basis of clientelistic and friendly links, links between managers and members of administrations. In the short term, credits were granted for essentially long-term transactions and this led to the depletion of businesses and later to the collapse of a large number of companies in the economic and financial crisis, and this also caused the crisis most pronounced in 2009 and further to today. And here you have to ask yourself where clienteleistic connections come from, social ties, friendly connections that gave credit. These links, in our view, range from 20, 25, even 30 years ago, to a time before independence and to a time when we had a completely different non-democratic system. At that time, the decrees provided for impreciseness in the financial field and, among other things, they could be financed by the so-called ‘invoices’. illegal business. And Slovenia is one of the rare post-communist countries where lustration has not been performed, and in fact this network has not been broken down in later years, and which is actually working today, with different powers, in various cases, and most of the time this policy has been hidden under the policy of national interest, and today probably a partially privatised national interest, and here this policy has been gathered mainly around Forum 21. One of the important reasons for such a financial hole is that there was no lustration in Slovenia. And so the New Ljubljana Bank has been and is a consolidation of national interest, after all, the appointment of administrations or members of administrations in the New Ljubljana Bank has never been an accident and has never been confirmed by the heads of financial political networks. This means that we actually know the situation today and, of course, that is why we are demanding responsibility for this bank hole. Thus, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have found that a billion-dollar bank hole is due to the way the former social property was privatised, which was mostly carried out by the elites gathered around the left political parties or Forum 21 and that, after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia in the banking system, political friendships were maintained both on the part of regulators and on the side of business banks. Therefore, for this meeting or for the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we have made recommendations for the decision to verify and take note of the findings of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to what extent is a billion-dollar bank hole due to the way in which the former social property was privatised, which was mostly carried out by the elites gathered around the left-wing political parties or Forum 21. To verify to what extent, after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia in the banking system, both on the side of regulators and on the side of business banks, these business clienteleistic or family ties have been maintained. To call on the Bank of Slovenia to disclose those responsible, and so on, those who have approved bad loans, such as those who have not received them back, and this because it has already been agreed in advance that they have not been returned, to report to the National Council on the freezing of assets and on all those responsible for the bank hole, to ensure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is able to ensure that the police, the prosecution and the courts consider the prosecution and the prosecution of banking crime as a top priority and to report to the National Assembly that the Parliamentary Investigation Commission is provided with all the necessary information to enable it to carry out its work and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will take all necessary measures to enable it to exercise the responsibility of all those responsible for the bank hole. These proposals from the Slovenian Democratic Party were discussed yesterday. Social Democrats, DeSUS, National Gazette and Positive Slovenia have not accepted them. In fact, the question here is why and whether it is here that it is not desirable that this coalition does not want to be held accountable for the current situation. Responsibilities for this bank hole, which is actually paid by Slovenian taxpayers, which they will pay and will pay and which limits the development of Slovenia, which reduces the standard of Slovenia and Slovenes and which actually owes not only today's generation or today's generation, but also owes future generations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will insist and demand that a nominal liability be established for the resulting bank hole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u3	Thank you, too. On 19 December 2013, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the working body meeting had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u4	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. President, a nice welcome to you all. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 79th emergency meeting, on 19. 12. 2013 as a parent labour body, considered the proposal for a recommendation on the proposed issue of State property management, EPA 1659/6, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on the first, third, fourth, fifth and sixth points of the recommendation. The Committee also received a written opinion from the Government. Two amendments of the SDS Group's new 8th and 9th recommendations were also forwarded to the Committee in the course of business. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Slovenia, Mr Mitja Gaspari and the Legal Service were present at the meeting of the Committee. The introductory explanation of the proposals for the recommendation was given on behalf of the applicant by a member of the Committee and a Member of the SDS mag. Andrej Šircelj, who presented the content of the proposal for a recommendation. In addition, he stressed that the so-called bank hole represents one annual budget of Slovenia and wanted to know who is responsible for it. He said that the loans were poorly insured and that the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia was also weak. He also presented data on the rise in poor claims after years and said that Slovenia should be third in line with the European Union average for poor claims, which is extremely poor. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented, in the introduction, the Government's written reply to the proposal for recommendations and said that the proposal for recommendations was neither appropriate nor necessary. At the same time, he said that the government, with the results of the bank's stress tests, cannot be satisfied and that it does not want large recapitalisations, but that recapitalisation not only saves the stability of the banking system but also the economy, which also protects the role of the population in our banks. He also said that this meant that public debt would increase to 75% of GDP. He said that the reasons for the so-called bank hole coincided with the beginning of the crisis, for which there are both objective and subjective reasons. There's a mag in the debate. Mitja Gaspari, former Governor of Banka Slovenije, presented a brief review of the first bank recovery and the economic circumstances of the time when certain decisions were taken. More than a six-hour debate had a lot more questions than answers, we received some new information in the debate, but at the end the committee did not accept the proposed amendments of the SDS Group for the new eighth and ninth points. It was said that we always say 'the committee did not accept', which is true, but I was warned that I must say that the coalition did not accept the proposals and that the committee also voted on all parts of the proposal and did not accept it. Since the proposal for a recommendation on the homework body was not adopted, on the basis of the interpretation of Article 61(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in conjunction with the provisions governing the treatment of the home labour body, the Rules of Procedure Commission of 9 July 2004 provides that: 12. 2009 the examination of the draft act on the home working body was completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government will be presented by the representative of the Government, Dr. Uroš Chufer, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u6	President, thank you very much. Dear Members, the best greetings to you too! As you know, last week we published the results of the stress tests and measures taken by the Government on the basis of these stress tests together with Banka Slovenije. We have also explained these measures and stress tests in very detail, both to the public, the professional public and to the National Assembly at an extraordinary meeting, which we had on the date of the publication of the stressful results, as presented by both me and the Governor. For this reason, I think that there is no need for any additional need to present the measures and for the stress of the tests. But maybe I could use a little more time and take advantage of the opportunity to tell you some kind of update that has happened since then. As you have probably noticed, with the measures and results of the stress tests we have received quite a bit of support in the international public. Important institutions have supported the activities we are carrying out. This has also been seen in the financial markets, the country's borrowing rates have fallen significantly this week, which means that the measures we have implemented are credible and actually have an impact on the confidence and expectation that Slovenia will work well not only so far but also in the future. In the meantime, DG COMP from the European Commission also gave the same permission as we said last time that we were still missing and formally approved the procedure, as we agreed. So we got this missing permit for the day before yesterday. At the same time, with their view and their greetings and their view of seeing that these are the right steps in the right direction. Since we have been granted this permission, we have then taken an immediate approach to the implementation of the measures. In the meantime, we have also received the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which notes that there are no specific reasons to stop the enforcement of the law. To verify the constitutionality of certain things, but that is still the time. In fact, we have carried out all the measures taken by the Government, so that they have been completed before yesterday. However, the last measure relating to the transfer of claims to a bad bank was actually signed yesterday and is being implemented today. So if we look at it, there's one big part behind us that's done, far from being done, because we still have a lot of things to do, and there's not time for us to be complacent and have the feeling that we can stop. In sports lingo we could say that we measured the average time after six months, just as you asked me once about this around the end of May when the intermediate time was good. If you asked me in September, I'd say it was a little less good, but I think we've actually done things quite quickly and well in December now, so I'd say we're satisfied with the interim, but the interim time is only an intermediate time and it's still a long way from being able to finish here. So I think this is an opportunity for us to also look at what is necessary to make a transition, to actually move forward in the direction of ensuring the right steps to ensure economic growth in a sustainable way, which in fact aims to make the quality of life better in Slovenia, and that we will not always be burdened by the crisis. I would point out three elements that I think are crucial and in which most of the focus of my time will be focused. The first is corporate debt. Since only restructuring banks, recapitalisation banks and the transfer of bad claims in fact create a condition that we can start working really well, quickly and effectively on the debt of businesses. And companies are the engine of the economy that is transporting economic growth, which sustains jobs and when we have actually completed this first chapter of ours, banking business, [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I think we're against it, that we can do it very well. [[…]] The second thing we need to do is centralise the management of public enterprises. We have already launched a debate here on the Slovenian state holding. I don't think it's quite clear to anyone that we need to centralise the management of public enterprises, but I think it's crystal clear by these numbers. And third thing, we need to close the privatisation we've been launching. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I think these three areas are the ones that are crucial to making them in the next six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u7	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u8	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues. As a basic question, we probably all ask ourselves why we chose this last Friday when this work is on the schedule of the National Assembly to discuss the banking problem in Slovenia at an extraordinary meeting. The answer is very simple and I think it is right to say it at the beginning. Coalition, the government has envisioned the rehabilitation of banks and the management of this area without Parliament. In these last months, when we have addressed this issue, we have pointed out that it is actually unacceptable for the eyes of Parliament to withdraw all these key decisions or report them to Parliament, but that we have missed the opportunity both to adopt the Banking Act and the Public Finance Act, to agree that the Devil has probably taken a joke that what has now been said from the views of the parliamentary groups or from the position of the proposer, and from the position of the committee president, is due to the fact that, since the last few years, the banks have been rehabilitated, we have managed to get out of the bank once for about one quarter of the state budget of the Republic of Slovenia, about a quarter of the annual GDP of Slovenia, that we have created a country that has passed from one least indebted country in Europe with 22% of GDP since 2008. When some of us in this National Assembly pointed out that in the Law on Public Finance it would also be right to adopt amendments that we have proposed that transfers of bad claims be presented in banks and that we will also discuss how this hole will be remedied, that the Government will come with clear projections, what does it mean that this sovereignty, around which so many speeches are so expensive, is simply not achieved and, therefore, clearly, such attempts will be necessary further in order to inform ourselves more about what we are doing by citing extraordinary meetings, although I am firmly convinced that this is not our greatest, most responsible task in this mandate and it would be right to have more Parliamentarianism in Slovenia. Yesterday I attended a celebration of the Constitutional Court on constitutional day where the speaker was the President of the German Constitutional Court. In his speech, he cited a number of the last of the German Constitutional Court's jurists, in which the German Parliament retained a whole range of powers, also confirmed by the Constitutional Court, even if they were to raise funds for European financial mechanisms and so on, but the key role was the role of Parliament. Parliament has limits. Parliament must be informed and I think we must make this hour of parliamentaryism in Slovenia and learn something from it. I wouldn't talk about numbers because they were already detailed. Slovenia is also not the only country in the world, but is one of many countries in the world dealing with the problems of the financial crisis. Surely one part of our crisis is also that the world has in the first ten years of the 21st century agreed to these modern financial mechanisms, to greed, to investment, to real estate balloons and one part of the problem in Slovenia lies also in this part. But in Slovenia there was also this greed in these years, the goal of which was the last phase of brutal privatisation, management acquisitions that apparently did not come out. Today there are more and more when they come to light names. Names where connections have been confused. Besides having different networks drawn in the past, we have one very important thing today. We have the most basic trail that applies most in these cases - it's a money trail. And this trail is very brutal. This trail is such that, as has already been said, this week, with the recapitalisation of banks, it was divided into each Slovenian and Slovenian thousand EUR 500, including the one born this week. This trail is so much bigger when all debts or consequences come together, so I think it is a very big responsibility for us to do what people expect us to do in the government and in Parliament. It is more or less clear to people that there is no one but citizens and citizens to pay part of this price. To what extent and what kind of money we will be able to get back, to what extent we will be able to determine the responsibility of the culprits, it depends to a large extent on us. I firmly believe that average Slovenians and Slovenes are very clear when they see the name of some manager that this manager didn't do these things himself. That behind this manager is someone else, as has been said in public: "I take the phone, I call and I get, even if it takes 100 million Euros of credit, because they believe my name, they believe the environment in which I operate to be able to return it." It is more than clear to all of us if we go from an economist to a banker, where some have called for a political basis behind them, a political background that has influenced what could have happened in Slovenia. Today, we have already heard about the round around Forum 21, which has been estimated to have disappeared in these networks and people who have been hanging around these circles, at least a billion euros I believe that during this adventan period the bells in this hall will be ringing again, where we will talk again about some bad billions that have disappeared in another network, for which there are also church circles or economy, mainly connected to the parish of Maribor. I believe that today we will also hear names such as Lovers, Bavčar, Timer and others, who are likely to have some botts in any other political mile. I am sure that we will hear about the Slovenian People's Party that we have advocated national interest, although, colleagues and colleagues, we have never imagined the national interest by robbing and robbing what people have created. We have always imagined it as people in the base from which we came out, betting that it is necessary to have soil, that seed potatoes should be preserved if you want to have next year's crops, if you want your children to be able to work somewhere as well. We certainly did not imagine that those who were supposed to manage this property in Slovenia, ordinary quarter-topers, cheaters who spend a few years in a drink like no one would work with their own farm. That is why I think it is right to discuss this. We have many questions, and we were some in the hall last night who were asked if you felt guilty. I think that everyone can answer very calmly, as I said last night, or most of us can easily answer whether he is personally guilty, whether he is personally involved or not. And I firmly believe that the vast majority of us have nothing to do with these exploits that have taken place in these years. But it is our responsibility today to allow the legislative framework to prepare a political will, just as it was said yesterday, to enter health logs, to prepare this political framework and the political will to enter these management-political circles, in which this obviously took place in this country for decades, centuries, I don't know how long it's been if we do anything else happens, I don't know if I can already mark this as a robbery for centuries. And in this part of the National Assembly, as I said, we have already missed two opportunities. The first opportunity was when we talked about the Banking Act. It was then proposed by the SDS amendment, which we also supported in the Slovenian People's Party, where we talked about banking secrecy. Very quickly these flat rates came in, in terms of: now you want to see all the applications, so that you can see the credit maps of honest people. No, we didn't want to do that, we can't do that, but it is certainly our responsibility to look at the bank maps of those who have now made their mistakes or swallows over a bad claim or past write-offs that have been hidden in the recapitalisations of past years into public debt. And that's our responsibility. I don't think there's any need for this meeting to come out in such a way that we can look for and personalize the culprits four, eight, ten years ago. Yes, that is what needs to be done, and above all, we need to ask ourselves what we will do to end it now. In order to determine for the first time who is responsible for this exhibited account received by Slovenians and Slovenians. So that we know who is responsible for these matters and that on the other hand we will make sure that this does not happen again or that what is now a great danger to us, that those people whose bad claims are now being transferred to a bad bank will in time hide a quarter, a third of the money, and will now be as well-educated investors, because they have been involved in these things, buying back these things from a bad bank or from somewhere else So I think we are talking about a very serious matter, and if the first rehabilitation of banks was primarily the rehabilitation of the wrong economic framework of another political system, and then the matter was to a lesser extent based on the fact that individuals have come through and wanted to have this money in their accounts, we now have this huge trap, and we need to respond to it in a qualitative way at the present time. When we talked about the Public Finance Act, this was an opportunity, and at the time we had a lot more precise amendments, which I think they were talking about these two things, it makes sense with what money, how expensive money we will recover from the past on the one hand, and on the other hand that these public claims transferred to a bad bank are transparent, public. That's when the coalition failed the exam. We have heard a very eloquent statement from the Minister, which we have interpreted to address this error in the Public Information Access Act. I hope that at least there will be enough political power. On the part of the Slovenian People's Party, we are providing votes today and we will give them for such a law if we find a way here to discover these possibilities to detect these bad claims. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, the European countries to which we so like to refer, have done so very quickly. We also heard about Austria yesterday, a representative of Sparkasse Bank, how people responded to how administrations were replaced. We also have a good example in the Republic of Slovenia, what happened at the Hypo Alpe Adria Bank in Ljubljana, in the middle of Ljubljana. Suddenly, many began to wonder if the owners had the right to empty the bank and set up their security guards and solve the problem. Today we hear from similar logs that this is an example of good practice. Then why are we so afraid to do this in state banks? When we met with the Prime Minister, where the finance minister and the governor were present, what we would do with those responsible for the credit maps was put in a series of my questions with those who run these banks. And I think that at least what the largest state bank should have done is - like in banks that went into liquidation on the day that the state decided, because it already had all the power from Parliament, because the coalition wanted so much and so much money to go into the bank - that day a new administration came to the bank to do it in order to change credit maps, at least rotate people, and that everyone would have to accept this credit map again and that what was explained to us there was now some coordination group operating at the Bank of Slovenia level, the ministry or the police service, the NPU and so on. No, these credit cards and the debt to get the banks back, they have to take care of the banks themselves. They have to file damages, they have to find out because they know these maps. Not that the police are now going through the Bank of Slovenia and I don't know which provinces they're going through to get rid of it. But it just can't happen if in these files the same people who were sitting when these things were done. And here's a saying that crow's eyes don't rule out, and I think for my understanding, last Thursday, when stress tests were published, we made a very big mistake at this point. Whether it is a mistake, whether it is an intention or a goal of someone, we must ask ourselves that, and I think that Parliament should simply not allow this to be the goal of who, in these matters, would be to keep things going as far as they have been in these years. Otherwise, there is nothing good for us, and this rehabilitation of banks will be just one measure, and it will not solve the problems. So I am expected that the conclusions have not been supported because it has simply been similar in all similar decisions so far. Perhaps these conclusions should be further elaborated, but today there will be a debate that will talk as likely as possible about what has been done wrong in the past, and it is only right that we know that we will make this known as possible, and above all I hope that we will learn something from this debate and that those of us who are representatives of the people here will do what is necessary in the name of the people responsible. We owe it to taxpayers, Slovenes and Slovenians to know when, who did it, how we pay it, and what the price of that money will be. And that the way banks are being rehabilitated, and in general the consolidation of public finances, works in such a way that once again Parliament does not talk about it, that there is no clear strategy, that there is no clear way in which we will be able to resolve the traces of such large interest. And I'm going to say out loud that at the time of the good 7 and a half billion collected taxes that we collect, and the second year, these burdens together and the new loans for reprogramming old loans will be very close to 1 billion euros in annual interest. And whether we are able to continue paying interest every seven euros that we collect to the taxpayer, on the other hand we are talking about the fact that, in addition to the measures that have already been taken at banking, it is necessary to take steps on privatisation, on the management of state property and, let us not forget, on the consolidation of public finances. At the beginning of the year, we passed a fiscal rule law or incorporated it into the Slovenian constitution, which is an implementing law. There is a new hour of truth and this hour of truth requires quality and good cooperation to see what, like the banking system, has brought us into other sub-systems of the country as a cover, which we can or must leave the whole country in order, not just the banking sector. I think there will be a lot of hard work ahead of us next year, but above all we will need a very clear and fair political will to solve these problems that have arisen in the past without anyone in this country hiding from the hand of persecution, the hand of justice. Since we will all need great happiness together and also a blessing in the new year, let me take this opportunity to wish all my colleagues and colleagues both a happy year, good cooperation between us, which must be more than this year, if we want to solve these problems, as well as the abundance of blessings between us, citizens and citizens, to return hope and optimism to this beautiful Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u9	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr President, and for your warm greeting to all present. In the Group of Members, we believe that the reasons that have been put down by the proposer of today's extraordinary meeting in seven points are not correct and appropriate. In the last month, we have adopted several laws and acts in the National Assembly that ensure the relative security of the financial system, effective action by those responsible and appropriate sanctions. In the opinion of the Government, the recommendations made by the Group of Members and Members concerning the rehabilitation of a billion-dollar bank hole in Slovenian banks are also inappropriate and unnecessary, as the Government has already committed itself publicly to the responsibility of those responsible for the situation in the Slovenian banking system for their conduct. The positive message also comes from the European Union. Its representatives believe that the situation and confidence in Slovenian banks will be strengthened, in particular following the published results of the review of the quality of the assets of banks and stress tests. At the same time, I would just like to remind you that there is also a sale of banks between the country's commitments. The so-called bank hole was not created this year, nor did it last year. It started almost immediately after the establishment of the independent State of the Republic of Slovenia, so we must honestly acknowledge that virtually all Slovenian governments and administrations of Slovenian banks with supervisory councils have caused a catastrophic situation in Slovenian banks by making such and other decisions. Therefore, the accusation of left-wing political parties or anyone or anyone else in our opinion is merely the exercise and transfer of responsibility. If it is claimed that the left is responsible for the situation in the banking sector, then why did investors acquire optimistic statements from representatives of the first Janša government and praises at the expense of the New Credit Bank Maribor in the first public sale of shares in 2007. I ask because the proposaler claims that the right has a more focused country development strategy. Let me remind you that at the time the price of the shares of the New Loan Bank was EUR 27. December 2007 already 44 euros and in 2008 the share fell to 20 euros. So in one year, she's lost value for a third. It's worth 10 cents today. I'm asking you if maybe you've already foreseen the situation we're witnessing today. You could have concluded that you had information that was obviously only of an internal nature. Today, however, this information came into play just at the time of the discovery and recovery of the bank hole. It's just a coincidence, isn't it? It is true that the epilogue cannot be fully cemented in advance, but we must finally be aware that Members and Members of the National Assembly confirm the legislation by which we become responsible for the situation, regardless of the area of legislation. In our Group of Members, we believe that the recommendations proposed could make sense if things were no longer moving in a positive direction. The competent law enforcement authorities will undertake their tasks more rapidly and the results will be assessed according to the tasks performed. And I would like to point out here that we must acknowledge that we are responsible for the situation, and we are responsible for all those who are taking decisions and legislation. Even when there are sanctions. For all of us make mistakes, but we must acknowledge them and then do whatever is necessary to correct them. The foundations of legislation in terms of a careful, effective, controlled and sanctioned system are established in our belief. It can only be upgraded in accordance with the time development component and a well-thought-out long-term vision of the country. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we have taken a clear position on this. We expect effective, legally sustainable and fast conclusions. Also on insolvency proceedings and criminal investigation within the framework of economic crime, not just the banking sector, because we are aware that efficiency only contributes to a fairer treatment of legal criteria. Every time we welcome the Prime Minister's statement that she had announced that they would find the responsible culprits for the situation. In other countries of the European Monetary Union, procedures are being stepped up to identify those responsible for the current situation in state banks. As we could see in the media, in the case of Nova Ljubljanska banka in Maribor and Ljubljana, investigators have already tracked down individuals who are expected to cause damages to the New Ljubljana Bank of at least 48 million euros. We are confident that the competent services will be able to expose those responsible for the situation and that the current ones will also actually be responsible for their actions. According to Banka Slovenije, almost 60% of all debt from Slovenian companies is domestic bank loans. We can be satisfied that we have seen a transformation in the resolution of our economic crisis despite the high demands of the European Union. Undoubtedly, the expected results of bank stress tests have contributed to this – this is for Nova Ljubljanska Banka, New Credit Bank Maribor and Abanko – to allocate a good EUR 3 billion of the total of €4.7 billion for the recapitalisation of banks over the next two years, which means almost 80% of the planned funds for the resolution of the banking system. It is misleading to expect that the results will be visible next year. We estimate that the real scenario has been five years and that it will also become clear if the chosen mode of intensive and difficult restructuring has resulted in the recovery of the entire financial economic system. In addition, it is worth mentioning that the cost of repairing banks will range from 10 to 15 % of GDP. And once again, there is a fear that this will take place on the shoulders of our citizens and citizens. How? Over lower pensions? Lower social transfers? Higher taxes and worse public services? And the Democratic Party of the Retired will by no means allow that. The price of this bank hole is enormous and we need to know that it is indeed a matter of close interconnection between banks and businesses and the ownership and management role of the state. We must be aware that the bank manoeuvring is only a mirror image of an extremely large financial hole in companies. If we consider that this is the first step towards the long-term stability of the banking and economic sectors, then the next challenge for the government is to draw up an ambitious recovery strategy or start an economy. Finally, let me remind you of Portugal, which is a visual and fine example of how effective or, rather, an inefficient programme is being used by the International Monetary Fund. One of the most obvious results of this programme is that this year the 25 richest Portuguese have increased their wealth by as much as 13%. This means that their share of the gross social product was 8.4% last year and 10% this year. All we can learn from this is that only rich people benefit greatly from austerity measures in return for financial assistance from abroad, amounting to €78 billion. Most of the average Portuguese are likely only to look forward to their success, not their own. On the other hand, other Portuguese people have their salaries reduced and pensioners have a hard-earned pension. More and more Portuguese people are living standards are falling sharply. However, the prices of goods and services continue to rise. This is the price that obviously has to be paid to make richer and richer. I wonder if we have a similar story? We hope not. With all this pompous deliberation around the billions of operations, I'm going to have to say this. Holiday days are approaching, it is time for mutual relations, association, relaxation and also knowledge. It's a time for us to stop a little bit. Thus, we must take sufficient time to approach all these current problems soberly and with due weight. As is clear from everything said in the DeSUS Group, we do not believe that recommendations are necessary, as we have also advocated on the home working body. In this autumn-winter time, we have taken quite a few measures that will allow for a more comprehensive, transparent, efficient and credible state system. Let me finish and wish everyone a pleasant holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! Christian Democrats welcome this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and we understand it as some kind of emergency exit. On Monday, when we asked practically identical parliamentary questions to the Prime Minister of the Government, we requested a special hearing, a special meeting of the National Assembly on the issue of the resolution of the banking system. I then asked the President a question and asked her to explain to citizens and citizens, taxpayers what the scenario of this government is for the final normalisation of the Slovenian banking system. There was no answer. And I miss the government President's position to face citizens, to tell taxpayers what kind of situation the banking system is in, and that it will be necessary to resolve this situation in banks with the taxpayer's money. In this way, probably the President of the Government could have gained more confidence from taxpayers in this government, but she did not take advantage of it. The results of the stress tests were a real moment of truth for Slovenia. The bank hole totals almost EUR 5 billion, which is more than half of the revenue of the annual state budget or 15% of Slovenia's annual gross social product. This is a cost that will be borne largely by Slovenian taxpayers and is the result of a poor, uneconomic, immoral and often illegal part of economic, banking and political elites. We read in the media, unfortunately in the media, not by the government, not in reports, not in government documents, that the total cost of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system will be around €6 billion. Six billion. No one among us can imagine what the amounts are, in fact. Perhaps the easiest thing to imagine is that if one morning we woke up and realized that all our highways were destroyed, all the tunnels were destroyed, all the viaducts, and maybe a few miles of other state roads, and if we had to rebuild all of this, we would need about that kind of money. That's what this is about, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore necessary and important and fair to the taxpayers to speak openly here in the National Assembly on the resolution scenario of the banking system and in this way confidence in the state institutions could certainly be increased, and the government has not taken advantage of this, on the contrary, some decisions are taking place somewhere in Gregorčič. A larger proportion of the bank's hole is being disposed of by banks owned mainly by the State, Nova Ljubljansko Banka, Nova Kredittní banka Maribor and Abanko. These banks will have to account for between 35% and 52% of loans to large companies and foreign banks in Slovenia, between 25% and 27%. Despite the fact that we have recapitalised banks with the majority of state-owned assets on several occasions. Through state banks, large state-owned companies were credited without a real vision and a development strategy. The manager's ransom was credited. As we listened to in the media to the state prosecutor Jožet Kozino, several million or even more ten million loans were also given to various shares with minimum capital, which were known at the time of the conclusion of the credit agreement that they would not be able to pay the loan and most of them ended up in bankruptcy. All these loans were granted without adequate insurance. The resulting bank hole in Slovenia is not the result of the global financial crisis or to a lesser extent. To a greater extent, however, it is the result of large incompetence, irregularity and illegality of work and, we can say, corrupt and criminal activities of elites. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission explicitly stated to its report that, following a review of several ten larger credit maps in decision-making bodies, credit committees, boards and supervisory boards of the banks, several ten and the same names appeared. They circled through these functions and had a key impact on credit decisions that represent a bank hole. For this reason, Christian Democrats and taxpayers expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do everything in its power to investigate these irregularities and illegalities. For these purposes, we expect that a public investigation will be launched in which, for all the bad loans owed to taxpayers, we will find: for the first time, who proposed such a loan, for the second time, who approved it, for the third time, who benefited from the approved loan, for the fourth time, whether the individual loans were handled by the banks with due diligence of the good host or even recklessly and even unlawfully, and for the fifth time, whether they were exposed to any political pressure or threats from influential stakeholders. The taxpayers, who will take over most of the burden of the foreign exchange of Slovenian banking, have every right to exercise the truth, especially since the taxpayers will be obliged to pay the debts incurred without their fault. And it's not just the taxpayers of the present generation, but they're going to be burdened by a few generations to come. That is why the next step the government will have to take to enforce the criminal and material responsibility of all those who are guilty or guilty of debt. The legislative bases for these purposes are appropriate and allow at least part of this money to be returned to the budget. Christian Democrats also point to the responsibility of the supervisor, the Bank of Slovenia. It will also be necessary to find and call to account those responsible for the supervision who had in their hands all the necessary levers for the exercise of control, and the supervisory functions have not been sufficiently carried out. A thorough and transparent clearance of the past is essential in the view of New Slovenia in order to prevent the possibility of a recurrence of such a public financial disaster in the future. We have not yet received these guarantees, ladies and gentlemen. Bad business practices need to be prevented in the future, and in particular this step will mean an increase in the value of banks in majority state ownership in privatisation procedures that will be followed by government forecasts. At least that's what we're hoping for. We hope that these procedures will not be delayed too far into the future. And maybe a word, if you'll excuse me, about the public sale of shares in New Credit Bank Maribor. I am not speaking here to protect Dr. Andre Bajuk's late finance minister, but I would like to say that the truth is needed here in this National Assembly. No one, no right in the mandate 2004-2008, and not even the then finance minister, was referring anyone to the purchase of shares in the New Credit Bank of Maribor. Such statements are depressed, unfair and do not belong in this house and are among the statements we call lies. At that time, the government had two internationally recognised institutions that found that the real value of the stock was €27. Let me just remind you of the mags' statement back then. Milana M. Szwikl, who calculated and claimed that it should be a share of €41. And this gentleman wasn't from the right, he was a LDS man and then SD. He even wrote a constitutional complaint against the then finance minister. The government did not manage New Credit Bank Maribor and the government did not inflate the prices of shares in New Credit Bank Maribor. That's what you need to know. Anyone who speaks differently and points to the government with a finger doesn't really know the alphabet of trade. Christian Democrats of New Slovenia still have the hope that the government will come before this respected assembly and present a scenario, also establish a time frame in which taxpayers, citizens and citizens of this country can be expected to normalise the Slovenian banking system and that Slovenian banks will finally and again be able to service the Slovenian economy or the model of the socio-market economy as advocated by Christian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u14	Dear colleagues, representatives of the government, President, welcome! Last week was a week of big disclosures. We got an amount that was speculated on for eight months — what a bank hole is. Even in the National Assembly, these speculations were heard, from 15 billion down. Today we know that this bank hole amounts to €4.7 billion, of which €3 billion is the capital deficit of the three largest banks, NLB, NKBM and Banks. The anger of all of us is great and justified. He calls himself responsible and calls himself after the return of the money. In Iceland, it took five years to convict, and we follow their path because they became untouchable, but ultimately they will be tried by the court, not by the National Assembly, not by the Government, not by politics. In spite of anger, though, do we still remember how it all began? There are some important milestones or causes that cause us today to feel the consequences of all the people and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. The first milestone was the successful rehabilitation of the banking system after its independence. Banks had negative capital in 1992 and the economy was in extremely poor shape. But after successful rehabilitation in 1996, banks already had positive capital in 1997. This was a positive story, this was the story of Slovenia, the story of everyone who was involved in politics at the time, because they knew that this operation, the rehabilitation of the banking system, was extremely important for the start-up of the economy, which then lost the Yugoslav market. And they did it. It is true that some have already considered partial or total privatisation of state banks. They didn't make it. The politics stopped them. And perhaps at that time we had the first chance to avoid what we are witnessing today. The second milestone was the abuse of national interest for the needs of narrow groups of people. Do you remember in 2001 when the rainbow brewery coalition in the National Assembly helped Lashko Brewery to buy the Union Brewery, despite the fact that foreign brewery companies were also competing for the Union Brewery? Despite the warnings of the then Prime Minister Dr. Janez Drnovska, this rainbow coalition of the left and right, they were all, nothing stopped. The message to the outside was clear at the time: "You have nothing to look for with us." What did the public do? The public honored the heroes of national interest and gave them an alibi to initiate domestic privatisation on behalf of national interest in the next seven years, which culminated in 2007. The third missed opportunity took place in 2002. In May 2001, the President of the Government was also Dr. Janez Drnovšek, who adopted the privatisation programme of the New Ljubljana Bank with the aim of reducing the State's share by the end of March 2002 to 25% plus one share. It is true that wishes were made for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank in its entirety, but it was then agreed that the country would retain 25% plus one share. Of course, there were various pressures, again there was a narrow national interest, not everything was going according to plan. The government, although negotiations with the NCBs have already been agreed, has sold 34% of the share of NLB, with the commitment and expectation of the NCBs to obtain 51% in the coming years and the state will retain 25% and one share. But what happened in the following years after the sale of 34% of NLB? Once again, the interest of individuals who were hiding under the cover of national interest prevailed. They were assisted by a policy that had to provide supervision of the bank to continue domestic privatisation without its own money. It was a privatisation, a home run, and it was without its own money, so a bank was needed. Therefore, since 2004, the New Ljubljana Bank has been identified as an investment of the greatest importance for the country and, as such, has to remain in the hands of the country. Reason? National interest. The national interest has always been an alibi before the public. The consequences of such a decision are known that the NCBs’ financial group did not further participate in any recapitalisation of NLB, indicating its dissatisfaction and preparations for departure. They left in 2012 when they sold their share for one euro per share and, at first glance, they suffered a great loss. Today we know that they actually had a small loss, given the amount that we're going to have to use to rehabilitate the NLB. Another opportunity was lost here, and the trust of foreign investors was lost here. We broke the word. Let me remind you of just two more stories when politics, together with domestic capitalists without money, has prevented foreign investors from doing so because of their own narrow interests. You still remember playing Americans who wanted to buy HIT, make a mega amusement park? Remember Deutsche Bahn when he wanted to, unsuccessfully, step into the Slovenian logistics pillar? What's going on with HIT today? What's going on with our logistics center today? For example, an inter-European business trip to Russia cost us 100 million euros. And I'm not saying that these two areas should be privatized, these two pillars privatized. I'm only talking about a pattern of action when, under the cover of public interest, he was preparing himself for domestic privatisation. Domestic privatisation without money. That's why you needed a home bank. The fourth milestone and missed opportunity began with the entry into the European Union and the takeover of the euro. After entering the European Union and taking over the euro in 2005, there was a huge amount of cheap foreign money on the market. That's when the debt started, a huge debt, but no vision and no strategy. What are Slovenia's priorities? Let me remind you that companies owed 9 billion in 2004 and 26 billion at the end of 2008. During this period, banks owed EUR 12 billion net to service domestic demand for foreign loans. Such a demand was on the one hand that the banks themselves could no longer provide credit, and on the other hand part of the deposits from our banks withdrew and went abroad to purchase securities. It was a high economic growth. The proof that it was not a coincidence or a mistake and that the policy played a major role in domestic privatisation without own capital also proves that there was a situation in the adoption of legislation that could prevent wild privatisation without money if all policy had an interest. Banka Slovenije pointed out this to the Government and banks, pointing out the excessive exposure of Slovenian banks, the credit risk. The European Union has also drawn up a so-called banking directive during the same period, as it was aware of the risks related to credit insurance. And what did we do in Slovenia in 2006? A new Banking Act was adopted in November 2006 and entered into force on 1 January 2006. 1. 2007 And watch out! Some provisions and some paragraphs came into force only a year later, 1. 1. 2008 And what did the retention part of the law mean? It's not a big deal. They only determine that it is necessary to have stricter terms for securing credits, those credits that domestic capitalists have rented without money in their home bank. Some proposals from Banka Slovenije, such as the need for members of the Supervisory Board to be licensed by Banka Slovenije or to obtain BS’s prior consent for investments outside the EU, have simply been ignored by policy. The second case, which I think is equally important in my opinion and view of Positive Slovenia, is the adoption and implementation of the takeover law. Novela was prepared in 2004 and this law also restricted the flag of shares of companies that took over. So he's headed in the direction that you can't set up the shares of the company you're taking over. And guess when this law came into force. It wasn't until 2008. Is it just a coincidence or buying time for domestic privatisation without funds under the auspices of a re-abused national interest? Are these two laws in the work that exacerbates the terms of credit insurance accidentally established after the year when they were financed over a billion euros of takeover activities or managers' buyouts and carried out various financial walks with their financial speculations – could I list a few of them and I won't, do we all know them? I don't think so. Today it is known that it was a careful plan to definitively privatise the Slovenian economy by means of policy and credit, so a state bank was needed to provide funds for their plan. You could say that the boys and girls were actually playing a tycoon-political monopoly. They bought a little bit, they sold a little bit, they traded a little bit, they borrowed a little bit, they built a little bit, and in the end, most of them went bankrupt. But they were convinced that everything was just a game and they ended up cleaning up the game and moving on. But it wasn't a game. The consequences of this game are known – €4.7 billion a large bank hole and over-indebted, failed companies, lost trademarks, depression, pessimism. These boys and girls have stolen Slovenia's future because of their greed and must be held accountable and accountable to the courts. Can you imagine what opportunities Slovenia missed during this time of extraordinary growth? We missed the opportunity for a sustainable development breakthrough in all areas that would benefit citizens and citizens, public interest and the state. For this money today, we would have completed emergency services, a second track, modern public passenger transport, provided water supply, sewerage, modern optical network, perhaps even a start-up centre. But no, even for the construction of highways, we're in charge at this time. Today, these same people who stole the future of this country explain that we can only be competitive by lowering wages and taxes. Some are so bold that they go to television and say that their company, which is by the way highly technological, can only succeed if the lowest wage is reduced to €350. Before that, he was happy to play monopolies and wants to play it today, but he won't. Besides, it's not our job to find the culprits. This should be done by the competent authorities. However, it is known who were in politics, the National Assembly, the Government, who was sitting in the administrations and supervisory bodies of banks and state-owned enterprises, who were meeting with politicians and drawing, who were domestic capitalists without money, whose financial holding companies were speculating, who were the auditors and, above all, who were the media gourds that allowed them to do so, of course, under the cover of public interest. If I were to say now that politics is not responsible, then that would be a lie. Politics is responsible and it's clear. It allowed different stakeholders to take the country into their own hands when taking measures to buy time for domestic privatisation. And it came in 2009, 2010 and 2011, when the policy, in cooperation with social groups on the one hand, adopted measures and, on the other hand, repealed those measures. Here comes my mind to the saying, "No one can help us the way we can help ourselves. And no one can harm us as we can harm ourselves." The aim was to blur the real causes of Slovenia's failure to prepare for the crisis. Unfortunately, no one was able to admit or have been misled, in what difficulties where the Slovenian banking sector and some of our state-owned companies are in trouble. These state-owned companies, which even at the time of economic growth were unable to repair their business – Slovenian railways and Adria Airways could even list them. Even at that time, they failed to reach the green branch and put something aside so that they could expect the crisis. And it came in 2012. We have received a new government and have experienced catastrophic forecasts of policies, economists and the media aimed at scaring the public, so that austerity measures could be taken more easily to remedy public finances and to rehabilitate the banking system. If I consider an inappropriate approach, something actually started to happen in 2012 in the area of resolution of the banking crisis, which had already been resolved abroad. This is also, respected and respected, the year of the first entry of Positive Slovenia into state policy and Parliament. For those of you who don't know, I wasn't here at the time. Positive Slovenia was in opposition this time. In March 2013, Slovenia received the new Government, the Government of Lady Alenka Bratušek. The reason for the collapse of the previous government is well known. Today, I can say that at the time, a large majority did not believe that the perfect protagonist in high policy would be able to stop negative trends in all areas. To the surprise or regret of all, despite creating emergency situations, predicting the arrival of the troika, the competition of the media, who will win the date when it will apply for international power, a strong increase in interest on Slovenian bonds due to speculation, that Slovenia will be next in line for international aid in Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Cyprus, Alenki Bratušek, Government and coalition in the bad nine months, which was expected in 2013 or what some even in dreams did not dare to think. It has succeeded in establishing relative political stability. She managed to gain lost trust abroad. The free fall of Slovenia, or financial collapse, has stopped, including through the 2013 budget corrections, 2014, 2015. Bank rehabilitation has begun and the conditions for the prosecution of economic and financial crime and corruption have been created. All these measures, some of which are really painful for the population, have still kept the level of the social state. By the way, has anyone mentioned that interest has fallen on Slovenian bonds and that they will still fall? The calming of the situation and the rehabilitation of banks were prerequisites for strengthening incentives for the economy, for the management of modern industrial policy. And the economy, in addition to youth and health, will be a top priority in 2014. Let me get back to our banking system and our bank hole. Actors of this failed privatisation will be discovered and then punished. They will be discovered by the relevant authorities, punished by the courts. He will not detect them, nor punish them, nor lynx the National Assembly, politics, or government. It is our task to establish conditions for smooth operation for the competent authorities and that, to the extent that any of the business banks does not want to participate and is owned by the State, as owners, we also act by suspending the administration. Various rules and measures have been adopted to this end. Among them is the Banking Act, the Criminal Procedure Act and the Tax Procedure Act. A proposal for a law to amend the confiscation of assets of illicit origin is also being prepared. In addition, the economic crime management strategy has accelerated the work of specialised investigative groups, conducted a range of training in this area and encouraged the active participation of all competent authorities. The fact is, if we are to deal with financial crime, our authorities must therefore be trained. In addition, we have allowed the police, the NPU, the prosecution or the court significantly easier access to confidential information in case of suspected irregularities. In case there are grounds for believing that a crime has been committed, business banks must provide the necessary confidential information to the court, the prosecution or the police. The general limitation periods relating to criminal and indemnity liability related to the performance of the functions of members of the bank management or supervision body shall be extended to a four-fold term. The transfer of bad claims to the so-called bad bank will also be subject to the provisions of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks relating to liability. Similarly, the management of so-called bad banks must immediately disclose to the relevant authorities any suspicion of criminal conduct by members of the management and supervisory authorities of banks and the supervisory authorities of commercial banks that they are familiar with, in particular, when reviewing credit flaws. Two specialised investigation teams have been established under the direction and direction of state prosecutors. A group was set up in which the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, the GPU, the NPU, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, with a view to responding rapidly to possible problems in criminal investigations and violations. Respectable. As I said at the outset, they became untouchable in half by the police and the prosecution and at the end of the court. But not to be so romantic, it's not going to be easy. It doesn't go without problems. Has anyone ever wondered why things are constantly happening in this country that are already bordering on emergency situations? There's always an affair, there's always a set of pranks, there's chaos, there's a lot of mistrust. Because it's fishing and hiding your catch, hiring a loan, your mistakes in mud quite can do. It's a distraction from the essence. That is why the time has come when we have to deal decisively with old patterns of action and thought and overcome this pessimism and depression, evil and envy, and live as a country and nation that knows what its priorities and desires are. We're so small, but that's why we're so big. Let us be aware and believe in ourselves, even though we may at some point experience failure so that we can be trusted. And the next time we go, we'll make it, because we'll have experience. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what the Government has done with regard to the resolution of the banking system is a good example of how to move forward in the area of the economy. Slovenia in the world cannot compete with a low price labour force, as someone or some have imagined, but rather with knowledge, innovation, trust and belief in people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Ms Romana Tomc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues. The situation in the Slovenian banking system is more than a result of the crisis. Therefore, no major financial injection will help as long as we treat only the symptoms, as long as we maintain the same patterns of thinking and action and until we are thoroughly confused with all harmful practices and are responsible to all those who have knowingly acted in contravention of the principle of a good master and to abuse the rules. There is more to the reason that the volume of credits began to grow rapidly about ten years ago. These include those resulting from favourable global and financial market conditions and from sound business decisions due to economic growth and development. What kind of credit was given to the company that had to close its doors is a business risk and there is nothing wrong with it. However, it is very wrong that certain loans have been passed by rules and not in line with business practice. And that's the question. Which, Your Honor, is what we're asking today. And whether or not anyone was responsible for it or when it would be responsible. The fact is, in the Slovenian banking system, the most bitter taste was left by the Taiwanese credits and greed of individuals who cared mainly for their own benefit at the expense of the development of companies. In particular, written legislation has made such practices very legal. The bankers, however, uncompromisingly confirmed millions of loans without adequate insurance. The supervisory institutions also closed their eyes when the situation became uncontrollable. With the support of Menzingrian theorists and advocates of national interest, and with the complete absence of epilogues in those few cases that were put before the judgment of the people, the story of social capitalism worked exemplaryly until it broke the global financial balloon. This crossed the plans of many, and from this point of view we can say that the global crisis for Slovenia was even beneficial. The story of the success of the Slovenian management elite and the increase of national interest finally began to get the right image. But the response was expected. Denial of the actual situation, resistance to any change, and attack against anyone who has warned of irregularities. And I'm asking you, colleagues and colleagues, what's different today? In doing so, let me give you a part of the article that was published in 2001, and I deliberately chose a newspaper or magazine that is closer to the left, so that there are no readings, that is, Youth. Under the title "Bank paradox", the author says: "The President of the administration of the largest state bank is at the same time the President of the Supervisory Board of one of Slovenia's largest industrial companies. At the same time, the President of the Management Board of the Industrial Enterprise is a member of the Supervisory Board of the Insurance Company, which services export transactions. The President of the Insurance Board is the largest bank in the country. So the circle is complete. The three Presidents of the boards of major companies appear once in the role of supervisor, second in the role of supervised. Such a situation can lead to incest situations." And concludes the author: "The privatisation seems to be the only cure, including the privatisation of banks." And what's different today? Today, more than a decade after the article was published, with billions of dollars, we save who, in fact,? Yesterday, it's been a week since the stress test came out. This is actually the only thing the government has done in connection with the resolution of the banking system has waited for the numbers produced by others. Two days ago, the European Commission granted state aid to five Slovenian banks, and this can finally start another rehabilitation of the banking system. If we roughly add up all the amounts, all the recapitalisations and add up the lost gross domestic product at this time, the cost will exceed EUR 10 billion. Only the last necessary recapitalisation of the three largest banks means the amount allocated by Slovenia to all pensions together in one year, one annual budget of the PPIZ. That's a lot of money. But the government, with a skilled pianist maneuver, has even prepared the public to see that this is an excellent result. If you once operate with a number of 15 billion, then 4.7 billion is not some kind of reference to the amount. In addition, it is worth recalling that only 1.2 billion are reserved in the budget for recapitalisation. This budget has also been prepared by the Government. But now they are citing Banka Slovenije, which is supposed to be an assessment of Banka Slovenije. The Bank of Slovenia obviously made a serious mistake, which was not the first time or the last time. Unfortunately, today we are only at the beginning of a story that we have already done. In my opinion, unlike a colleague who represented the position before me, it was unsuccessful, because if we had done it successfully, we would not only have poured billions of euros of money into the banking system, but we would have made sure that something like this would never happen again. Yes, it is. And today we are where we are, even though we should have done what we are doing today at least three years ago. But it doesn't show anything else yet. That is why it is very difficult to accept or very difficult to agree with the President of the Government, Alenka Bratušek, who accompanied the results of the stress tests with the words: "Today is the day we have proved to you and showed that we know." At this point, the government has shown only that it can do extra debt and that it is very expensive. And that he can raise taxes. Much less than indebtedness, however, deals with how and especially who will repay these debts. How do we get to economic growth? For a long time, we have been repeating one and the same question to the Government and to the coalition, on which we never get anything other than the general answer "we are working". But we're asking in concrete terms. What structural reforms, specifically mentioned by you, do you have in mind? And what have you done besides granting state aid and subsidies for a better business environment? Perhaps Minister Chufer can tell us this today, which, in addition to the very important function of the Finance Minister, is also serving as a temporary economic minister. But at the moment, I think the minister is more concerned with the economy than he is with the search for fresh money. We can only hope that he will continue to be more successful than he was, for his latest debt venture, which will cost us more than €200 million over closed doors at an extremely high interest rate in the coming years. The principal is due in three years. And now the question, the specific question. Where will we get the money in three years if our economy shows no signs of recovery? I guess the answer is we're just going to be in debt again. That's how this story goes with us, and you say everything will be different from now on. Yeah, what's that? And who's actually going to pay for the bailout of the banking system? Although the answer seems to be complex, it is essentially simple. The rehabilitation of the banking system will be paid by people who therefore reasonably expect to receive explanations and answers, why they have to pay higher taxes and why their standard will be reduced and who is responsible. They want to know if there are also leaders and supervisors of banks. Are the former Governors of the Bank of Slovenia responsible? Is it also the responsibility of those who, with the modified data, leased disputed loans? They are also interested in why the Government has not taken measures to secure and recover funds from those responsible. Why is it that those who have not returned the contested loans not frozen property? If it is necessary to adopt a law, why did the Government not propose it? The evidence that the Government can react extremely quickly when it seems necessary is a recent amendment to the Public Finance Act. The law was adopted at a letter meeting, and in two days it was confirmed by the coalition in the National Assembly. We need to get the banks out of the way. Of course we all know that. The results just showed what they are, and the facts cannot be changed. Therefore, it is free of charge at this time to politicize and wonder why the results of the stress tests that have been done from above are different from those that have been done from below, whether the methodology is right, and to point the finger at those who have evaluated us. Under pressure from the European Commission, these tests were done for us by foreigners, because the European Commission simply did not trust the assessments we made ourselves. Therefore, it would be far more appropriate to point out with your finger at the one that, with false and unrealistic estimates, caused us to receive these foreign inspectors at all. And we are no longer in a position to dictate to others how to behave. Unfortunately, we are in a position to be dictated by others. So much for how much sovereignty remains in this government's decisions. In the debate on resolution of the banking system and the question of where we will get the money, there was a heated debate yesterday evening on whether the possibility of using the European Rescue Mechanism would be a better or a worse solution. It would certainly be cheaper. The interest rates in this mechanism are several times lower than those offered on the market, and we all agreed on that. But then it got complicated because the government and the coalition had no answers to what the conditions would be for this money to come. We can only guess because the government didn't even negotiate. She did not even try to achieve any beneficial package, but she rejected this option in advance as unacceptable. And even though the government doesn't know the conditions because it hasn't tried to get to know them, it claims that the ESM is a bad solution. Interesting and completely in the style of this government – "we know this best". However, the question of which possibility of indebtedness is better is entirely on the ground. We need to weigh pluses and minuses. And it is not possible to simply reframe the conditions of other countries. Packages are different for different countries. They depend on the negotiating capacity of the government, the extent of the problems in which it is located, and, of course, the amount of money it needs, probably from something else. However, the implementation of structural reforms would be necessary. How deep and who we don't know, the government hasn't even tried. However, I would point out that reforms will still have to be implemented, done, whether others tell us or we are aware of it. And justifiably, when the government behaves, it is concerned whether the continued rejection of the ESM means that the Government does not actually have any serious intention of carrying out the necessary reforms. And now, with a full bag of money, it is continuing the policy that has led us to the situation that, together with Cyprus, we are the only country in the European Union to see a decline in economic growth next year. The numbers we learned days ago, so we have no influence, and this is what the Government did about the resolution of the banking system - it interpreted the numbers that are like that. The amount of the recapitalisations has been fixed to us by others. However, we can still determine for ourselves what the method of implementation will be and decide whether we want to break up once and for all with the current way and start working differently, or whether we will continue the old practice. And enough, enough nice words, in terms of, "we will do everything in our power, if necessary, we will also adopt the law." Such promises are no longer sufficient because the same empty promises were made at the time of the first resolution of the Slovenian banking system. However, we are the only European country that is working to remedy the banking system for the second time. It was interesting to listen to the representative of the Bank of Slovenia on the committee yesterday. Representatives of the Supreme, Supervisory and Regulatory Institute, who should pay the utmost attention to the health of our banking system and act as soon as they detect any problem. Apparently, they did everything right, everything that was in their power, at any moment, they were supposed to act carefully and in accordance with their responsibilities. Well, just to remind you, they also publicly opposed the establishment of a bad bank. We are therefore wondering why the banks have become so confused if the Bank of Slovenia has done its job effectively. Is this not an eccentric denial of the actual state of affairs, a postponement of responsibility and an attempt to preserve the established patterns, i.e. precisely the kind of behaviour that we have been accustomed to in the past years and with which we have to stop. A failed transition based on failure to privatise the economy as well as the banking system and on unhealthy connections within these systems, where no one knows who is drinking anymore, but who is paying, has led to a chaotic situation where the foundations of the democratic system are threatened. The second rehabilitation of the banking system is certainly our last, within the sovereign and independent Slovenia. There will be no retrial, and this is not an example from which we would learn something for the next time, for the time for learning has passed about two decades ago. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we demand that the bank rehabilitation process be carried out in a transparent manner, in fact, not only by word of mouth, not as it was in the Probanka and Factor Bank case, where everything happened overnight, explained no, but the opposition requested them was a disruptive factor. We demand answers and detailed explanations, we demand that all irregularities be identified by financial regulators, administrations, supervisors in banks and that all those who have committed any irregularity or intentional or negligence are duly sanctioned. And we don't accept collective responsibility, no, we're not all guilty, one is more guilty, one is less guilty, one is not guilty. And it is not right that this collective responsibility, which is characteristic of another system that we have left, is that, I hope, they hide individuals in various commissions, working groups, saints and so on. So far, both the Government and Banka Slovenije have avoided clear and precise responses to what plans are for further stabilisation of the banking system and what measures are already and will be proposed by the Government to detect liability. For what we have heard so far and what has been accepted so far is far away from what will break the pattern of our conduct 20 years ago. And the excuses for protecting those responsible hide or substantiate the words "bank secrecy" and "non-interference with law enforcement authorities". Very convenient. Next time you explain in the government and coalition that there is no way to do something, remember that new taxes can be imposed overnight, that it can be charged by a billion and a half behind closed doors and that changes in laws can be adopted at correspondence sessions. Above all, keep in mind that the payer of the bill will ultimately be the people. Therefore, these people who will pay for this question have the right to know and have the right to demand responsibility. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that the coalition did not last night have the power to support our proposals for conclusions. Of course, this also shows the seriousness of breaking up with old patterns of behavior. However, one day the time will come for these questions to be answered. Probably after we have begun to respect Resolution 1096 in Slovenia, adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, including that part that requires the implementation of lustration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u17	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u18	We are convinced that today's meeting does not contribute to anything other than the continuation of the dance, in which left and right policies accuse each other and seek to find someone else to blame for the situation. It is interesting, however, that some claim responsibility while at the same time bringing a political verdict to this Chamber. They believe that the absence of lustration and the left transitional elite is responsible for everything that has happened in Slovenia. This belief could even be legitimate if those who make this condemnation to this National Assembly, by their political standards, do not have responsibility for the problem themselves. It is not true that Slovenia has been in trouble for 22 years. By 2004 she had led a relatively moderate, gradual economic policy and expected the government to be very resilient in 2004 and the first Janša government. Lowly indebted, both in public debt and in indebtedness to the economy, with a macro-economic balance, and it really seemed to me to quote the former prime minister that "Slovenia's sky and horizons are clear". And then the mistakes started to accumulate. These may have been made by hotels because political friends wanted to have access to privatized property, or because of misdeeds, misdemeanours, ignorance and economic policies. Those who represented the prosecutor and the judge in this National Assembly today have a great responsibility for the economic situation themselves, for the problem in the banking system, for the granting of friendly and other credits, especially because when the time for action was clear between 2005 and 2007, Slovenia had lost its balance until then, did not act in a timely and sufficiently timely manner. We want the Social Democrats to place two fundamental emphasis on this debate today. First time. Not only are we aware that the problem in the banking system needs to be addressed, we claim that the state is already effectively solving it. By recapitalisation, it strengthens the Bank's capital adequacy to restore its trust and ensure the stability of the banking system. Not only to remedy past mistakes, but also to increase the robustness and resilience of the banking system to future shocks. To clean up the bank balance sheets by transferring bad investments and to make and contribute to more efficient management of these investments, and in many cases also to the successful restructuring of the firms and jobs behind these poor investments. This is not because of banks, because of their managers and because of elites, but because we understand that the banking system and its normal functioning is a key prerequisite for economic measures. And a second time. The problem of over-indebted economy, which has grown into a key development brake due to irresponsible lending, has clearly been conditioned by crime, negligence and non-compliance with legislation. The consequences of these practices are devastating to the social situation and prospects of hundreds of thousands of people. Young people who have lost faith in life in Slovenia, workers who have lost jobs and security, and pensioners who lose dignity and a safe age. Because of each of them and because, without prosecution and conviction of all those who have contributed to the emergence of these devastating consequences, there cannot be a return of confidence in the country and its legal system, the law enforcement authorities, the National Investigation Office, the police, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Prosecutor's Office need to ensure all necessary tools to ensure that the detection and prosecution of criminal offences are effective and that all those responsible, regardless of their political affiliation, status or past merits, will be brought to justice before the time limit. Social Democrats in the work of law enforcement and crime detection bodies have seen significant developments and progress that have already produced results. Nevertheless, the Group of Members, together with the entire leadership of the Social Democrats, met with the Commission to prevent corruption. We have examined all fifteen points of their recommendations, which are covered by the explanation of their resignation. We regret this withdrawal, but we understand it as a clear warning to the entire policy that all obstacles that make it difficult for Slovenia to prosecute or prevent corruption and corruption from breaking. Therefore, in our Common Member, we are in favour of the idea of a special public investigation, which would link the key law to the key law of prosecution and give them special powers to detect and prosecute these practices more quickly and effectively. Released any possible pressure or political conditional interpretation. We would also like to see the whole of Slovenian politics overcome the knowledge of the need to clear the causes of the social and economic situation. This knowledge has long matured in the Slovenian public, and this knowledge is today a clear demand for people – persecution and condemnation. We also consider examples set before us by a special example of Icelandic experience. But let us not forget that this government majority has already taken important steps that help us to identify the culprits and what their responsibility is. As part of the government's majority, we supported the adoption of the Banking Act, which, inter alia, ensured the availability of all the data required by detection and prosecution authorities to determine accountability. We are also open to making public all the key elements and characteristics of those investments that will be transferred as bad and inherited investments to a bad bank. Even though we doubt the success of the parliamentary investigation and have a significantly greater confidence in law enforcement bodies than a politically constituted commission, we are actively involved in this investigative commission. We were the initiators of the start of the hearing of witnesses, governors, past and current administrations and the management of supervisory boards in the system banks in order to obtain as soon as possible more tangible information to determine political responsibility and responsibility for breaches of the rules. However, the fact is that the parliamentary investigation, also because of the political interpretations in which this National Assembly is being held, cannot and cannot replace the effective prosecution of an independent investigation which must be carried out by the competent authorities of persecution and therefore the policy must remove all obstacles. Today, too, we are witnessing an attempt at political interpretation, a political condemnation without clear evidence, and without actually being called upon by policy to deliver this judgment to the public. We know for ourselves that we are not without responsibility. Especially because, as the largest political force of the Pahor government, we have not convinced the political partners that timely and sufficient action is needed already in 2009. When the Social Democrats proposed a significantly higher recapitalisation than was carried out during that period, following examples from Austria and Germany, which were very quickly after the crisis with a sufficient capital injection, at 10% of gross domestic product, they made sure that their banking systems were stabilised. It is worth noting that the steps already taken by this majority of governments, which on the one hand reflect the political will and measures for fiscal consolidation, the adoption of budgetary documents and the vote of confidence, have already shown that in this country we are going beyond the political will to maintain stability and take the necessary measures. The next day, this political act was followed by a reduction in the required return to 10 annual government bonds from over 6% to 5.7%. Following the publication of stress tests and especially after the European Commission approved the Slovenian Bank recapitalisation programme last Wednesday, this required bond yield fell below 5%. Let us not forget that this is the lowest point of the required return on government bonds at the age of ten, after the decline of the three-year referendum in 2011 has led to part of the political space still sitting in this Chamber. At that time, because of political indiscretion and because political prestige has been traded for the short-term political benefits of the Slovenian Democratic Party, a dangerous spiral dance has actually begun, which has brought us here to this day. This Government is aware of the problem, this Government is aware of the need for political stability and Social Democrats we want everyone, especially in the circle of our coalition partners, to spread the awareness that it is a good time to act wisely and strengthen political stability and trust. Nevertheless, we are far ahead of the end of the road. We still have measures to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, which will contribute more effectively than ever to the disengagement of the Slovenian economy than a prerequisite for its recovery. In doing so, we stress that, on the one hand, the recovery policy must be independent of it, including the policy of persecuting and detecting everything that has led Slovenia to the situation. But let us not forget, responsibility is not limited to the past or current administrations and supervisory councils of Slovenian banks. Responsibility must also be sought in the wrong economic policy, which did not recognize or respond to clear signals of overheating of the Slovenian economy. Responsibility must also be sought where intransparency in the offices of former government presidents, state property was sold to the wrong buyers. The wrong buyers who guaranteed the value of the assets acquired for the loans received, all of which are in line today during the sequestration of investments. Last but not least, the responsibility must also be sought in small political actions, such as when the then government majority faced with the process of so-called tycunization, rejected the opposition-proposed takeover law, which would prevent the targeted investment — the company taken over — from being subject to credit insurance. The Slovenian Democratic Party then rejected measures that could effectively reduce or prevent the problem of missed privatisation. Today it is not our intention to contribute to the netting of political space with additional mistrust. However, while some are putting themselves in the role of slaves, it is also important to note that they have the greatest responsibility objectively for the situation. However, as far as our hopes are concerned, it is worth stressing that the greatest hopes are for independent law enforcement and crime detection bodies to do their job. In Social Democrats, they have allies to remove any obstacles they may face on this path, including the issue of accessibility and the public in bank balance sheets. The year 2013 is ending. For all of us, 2013 was particularly difficult for many citizens and citizens. At the end of this year, on the basis of what the National Assembly has been able to do in recent months, I say that in the new year, we can meet with moderate optimism. Our problems are far from over. But we think we're on the right track. And maybe, you know, maybe you can see that light at the end of the tunnel somewhere. However, Slovenian policy will also have to gather more political wisdom, less bargaining and burdensome political convictions, which in fact burden and make it difficult if they do not even prevent political cooperation in this Parliament, which would be necessary in order to realistically and rationally impose the necessary measures to be taken by the State. Until such a partnership is inspired on your part, do not expect the government majority to face the urgency of taking action to waste time seeking agreement with those with whom consensus is not possible and who agree, to the truth lovingly, because of past actions and the present, neither to the benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Mr Marko Pavlisič will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Respectable co-owners of banks and others grieving. "After the battle we can all be generals," says the old proverb, but for the future it is much more important who can be general now and today, in the current situation, and in this particular social environment, space and time. Of course, this does not mean ignoring history. If we have not learned anything from history’s mistakes, we will repeat them again in the future. The fact is that Slovenia’s external debt increased considerably between 2005 and 2008. This somehow coincides with the first Janša government, but it would be very wrong if this government were to be blamed. Of course, I could have done more, further tightened some brakes, but I honestly believe that no government would have done otherwise. And, yes, in short, private debt is not a problem for the government. More generally, it is. Why? Because of the situation that this will later lead us to, even if, when the government has to act, it is acting wrong. The fact is, after years of intense indebtedness, Slovenia began to face capital outflows. Banks that had previously imported money and placed it on the Slovenian market began to withdraw. Since this would put a lot of business in difficulty if the money had to be returned and a new loan could not be received, the government, the Pahor government, began to deposit deposits with banks, and for which it owed abroad. We borrowed money abroad so we could return it abroad. In fact, we have transformed private debt into public debt. But since we did it through deposits, it all looked nice. Negative on one side is positive on the other. Also, the Prime Minister of the Government was able to boast of billions of deposits in the account, and he kept silent that the moment he wanted to raise those deposits, the banks would send in liquidity and bankruptcy. We did help a lot of companies with this, but it's completely unselective. No one has seen whether it makes sense for an individual company to help or better not to keep it alive. Not life, life. We've put off the problem and we've got an account today. The bank is such an interesting institution. You have money in your account – you have a little more tomorrow, you have a minus in your account – it's a little more tomorrow, you have credit – you owe a little more tomorrow. You have a deposit – it grows overnight. You have a hole and it grows into a black hole. And it looks like we got the most interest on the bank holes. The bigger the hole, the harder it is to admit it and face it, even if you feel at least a little responsible. And politics is responsible for this hole, and if anyone disagrees, we can go over the facts again. Only unburdened politicians can cut through such spirals, such as Dr. Janez Šušteršič with a team that has prepared everything necessary to close this black hole. Of course, at the time it was known that it would not be cheap. At the time of the adoption of the law, the amount of 4 billion seemed enormous, even too large. Unfortunately, we cannot take full advantage of this now, since in the meantime a number of bad claims have become worse and are no longer suitable for a bad bank. It's not fair, though, that the fault of the bank hole is trying to frame this government. This government has only made sure that the problem has been properly evaluated and that ready mechanisms have been activated to remove this problem once and for all from the history dump. Blaming this government for a bank hole is like blaming the postman for the bills he brings. The mailman may be guilty of a lot of things, but it's really hard to hang his wallets. Part of the bad claims can be attributed to normal missed business moves, part to political missteps, and part to crime. The first is the normal part of banking, which banks know and can manage, and last but not least that's the essence of their work. For the last reason, it's a crime, it's the police, the prosecution and the court, and I hope that jails will deal with it soon. We have eliminated the problems of access to bank data by amending legislation. The results of the police, which Minister Virant has given them clear priorities, are already visible, and let us hope that the pace will continue to rise. We have cleared up the first and last cause, but we have to deal with the middle one - political interference. And this is the most durable one, because it's completely imprecise. And the main actors are usually not signed anywhere. We can catch little fish, even though it's some kind of director, but the big ones will stay. "Friendial capitalism" is what some have said. When, on behalf of national interest, the taxpayer's money moves into private pockets. This is what the Commission has told us to fight corruption. It's about time we took them seriously. State ownership isn't bad in itself, but let's look at it in concrete terms. You want to take a look at NLB, NKBM, Abanko? State ownership came at a price. The price was not clear in advance. This price per day 12. 12. 2013 amounts to 4.6 billion and if we don't change anything, we'll get the bill back in a few years. And please, everyone who dreams it's good to keep banks in state property, and even if only a quarter, tell him the price. The price per capita is at least EUR 2 000, without taking into account past recapitalisations. If he's not ready to open up so much, ask him to dream of something he can afford, I'm afraid we can't afford that luxury anymore. Politics must come out of both banks and from all non-strategic companies, and let us stop blinding ourselves to not knowing what commission through. It is necessary to exit the property. Like a woman who is not half pregnant, politics is involved not only in ownership but also in management. You did or you didn't. And experience shows us what it's like to be. If the State owns it, taxpayers get the bill. How many more times do we have to figure this out? If the State owns it, taxpayers get the bill. Nothing but. If the State owns it, taxpayers get the bill. Pika. The company for the management of bank claims, a bad domestic bank, is designed to get taxpayers back at least part of the funds we have contributed to the recovery. As soon as possible. And let me be very clear here to gentlemen who would like to extend their well-paid service from five to fifteen years as it sounds. No, gentlemen, in five years, you can sell anything without the pressure of the deadline. This pressure will appear if you sit with your hands crossed for four years. If you want an extension, you will come to this high assembly asking nicely for this, along with management plans and valid reasons why this is necessary. If you can't do that, show your expertise today and leave your place to the one who has the rules and purpose of a bad bank clear. Gentlemen who would only heat chairs had enough in the banks and today we have their bill on the table. The issue of ESM’s aid is certainly on the spot. In the Civil Code, we have not closed the door to any good measure, but I must be aware that the ESM is not the Santa Claus you order 4 or 5 billion and bring it to you. That's how our banks worked, and today we have an account. The ESM will not solve banking problems if the state can solve them on its own. Otherwise, he himself will soon be in a position to be rescued by the states instead of the other way around. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, economic growth will come, the rehabilitation of the banking system is needed, but not a sufficient condition. We have increased public debt, but it is still manageable, but only if we help it reduce it relatively with economic growth and lower interest rates. This requires a balance of public finances, structural reform and, above all, a positive attitude, which will also bring optimism. In the Civil Gazette, we are convinced that we know and can do this, either in this coalition or in another or in the opposition, if another interest prevails again. Happy holidays and a happy new year for all citizens and citizens are wanted by the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlishich. We have thus concluded with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are going to have a general discussion on the proposal for a recommendation. For starters, Mr Šircelj has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have listened with interest to the debates or views of the groups of Members, and I must say that, after all, all the parliamentary opinions have spoken of the need for greater responsibility, that we also need a way to sanction the wrong measures, which can be based on crime, can be based on negligence, in short, all the parties are in favour of increasing responsibility. However, I have already noticed several times in coalition parties that there is rhetorical and verbal support for certain opinions, but when we actually come from words to action, when it is also necessary to take a decision in this case in the National Assembly that this responsibility should also be increased, including that the Government of the National Assembly owes it or recommends it, or that it advises it, or that it should tell it that it should increase attention in certain problems in Slovenia, then somehow concerns cancellations. That is why I would very much like the coalition to move from a declaration to action, and this would also have a greater role and, after all, some effect. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in fact, what we are saying is what we want to do. Today, when we talk about the Slovenian banking system and all parties, perhaps one of them, have mentioned the so-called national interest, we can find that today we are talking about the bank hole and the national fiasco, instead of the national interest, which has brought us national interest. In short, national interest has led us to the national fiasco, because, within the national interest, everything in banks has not worked on the basis of transparency, on the basis of professionalism, on the basis of some professional work, but mainly on the basis of various clientelistic, friendly, social ties. And in this respect, Slovenia is a special feature, a particular feature of how this national interest was created from the late 1980s or early 1990s – the networks have been distributed and we have actually come to this in connection with the media. That's not good, and that's why you have to be cut, cut so that banks can do good. Of course, there is another solution that this government has decided in some way, namely the privatisation of banks, in short, the state will no longer be the owner of banks. Finally, the European Commission decided to sell NKBM by 2016 or 1 January 2016. The NLB is also expected to sell and the state is expected to retain 25 plus 1 shares. Here is a question for the government or, in fact, for the Ministry of Finance: Why should we keep 25 plus 1 shares in Nova Ljubljanska Bank, and what is it that forces us to do so, and after all, will the price actually be lower? For we know that we have so - called thresholds, and these are usually valued with more money. There was also a lot of talk here, or at least a little talk about how the external debt was due and how the internal debt was incurred. The period 2004-2008 has been mentioned several times. And if we're talking about the period 2004-2008, we're talking, of course, about economic growth, and on the other hand, we're talking about fiscal balancing. In short, what the government is supposed to ensure by enforcing a fiscal rule. We've adopted a fiscal rule in the constitution, we're waiting for the law, and basically that means a certain violation of the constitution itself, because the government is late here. The government's loss of balance over the period 2005-2007 is something we cannot agree on. In fact, companies, the population, and so on, owed themselves, took loans, the banks were the ones who were primarily responsible for the lending of these loans and, of course, the Bank of Slovenia. In fact, the Bank of Slovenia is a regulator and can reduce this way of borrowing through its actions and operations, and this would actually make it more difficult to take these loans. We must also say that if we are talking about political speculation and similar matters, in this case, the Slovenian Democratic Party is not talking about any political conjecture. And the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one that has most often offered political cooperation to all parties, and we have actually worked very well in this political cooperation within the framework of the development partnership. And this was in 2004-2008, and in those years other parties, including the Social Democrats, participated, and all the parties received in advance all the regulations and agreed or disagreed with them. I therefore agree with the need to cooperate, I agree that we are in a special situation today, and I also agree that such cooperation can be good if it is based on equal or equal conditions. As far as this is concerned, it is necessary to distinguish between sovereign debt and external debt, and the Government is certainly not the one responsible for borrowing loans from companies or individuals. In fact, government debt has fallen in this period, as I know, from 8 billion to 7 billion, and if we compare it today to a debt of more than 27 billion in a few weeks, then it is a strong difference. And with regard to this debt, it is necessary to ask again how, irrespective of how this debt, if measured by gross social product, is still lower than the average in the European Union, to justify such a trend in this debt, from 8 to 27 billion in the last four or five years. In fact, this means that the state does not create as much as it spends and spends at the expense of future generations and at the expense of these future generations, future generations will have to pay for this spending once. And that's not good. I therefore ask again: What is the 2014 debt policy? Is this debt policy based on the fact that Slovenia will be in debt in closed markets, as it was in debt in the last case when it sold state bonds with an interest rate of 4,84 and this to an unknown buyer, where it would also be expected to tell who this unknown buyer or several buyers is, since, after all, citizens have the right to know? The second question follows. We recapitalized the banks. Three banks. We gave them three billion. As a result, the banks will not have any greater credit potential on their own; they will be capital-appropriate, as requested by the European Central Bank or the European Commission. The Minister mentioned the company's indebtedness. By amending the law governing the solvency of enterprises, this will not happen. This is such a complicated law – prepared by the Ministry of Justice, then proposed by the Government – that this will not actually be possible. There is a solution to force a minority bank to initiate certain procedures, but this will not save the Slovenian economy. For this reason, I am interested in what are the further structural measures of the Slovenian Government. What it will do to actually start producing more, better produce, with more added value, and what will actually happen here. Because just giving banks 3 billion is not enough. In this context, it would also be good to know what will happen to the various reforms, from health reform to pension reform, to the labour market, everything is mentioned, but it is mainly medical in the air. In this regard, it must be said that at a time when citizens have received an account for the mistakes and mistakes of the past decades. It is also my opinion that the rehabilitation in 1996 was partially successful and, above all, it was not transparent and no responsibility has been established. At that time, there was also no responsibility for bad loans and credit was also given intransparency. By arguing that DeSUS will not allow any lower transfers and pensions, I would like to agree, but it seems to me that, given the financial situation, this will be impossible. In view of the financial situation in which the country is, it is likely that some social transfers, including pensions, will have to be cut. It is also very difficult to expect income from this title from the government, which is a 'bear' with state holding and privatisation. Once again, I wish this wouldn't happen, but in this case, no. One more question, in relation to the ESM or through the European Fund. Yesterday, it was even said by a colleague of Möderndorfer that discussions on the ESM had taken place. I want to know what the results of these discussions are and what really happened. With regard to responsibility, the Slovenian Democratic Party is fully aware that the National Assembly is not the one to judge, is the one who can warn and who also warns certain law enforcement authorities that some things go a little faster. Because if we take the data from Banka Slovenije and take the criminal charges filed by Banka Slovenije for the period from 2009 to September 2013, we can find that Banka Slovenije processed one or two complaints per year at different addresses – the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office, the Police Administration, the District Public Prosecutor’s Office; in the various years – one in 2010, one in 2011, two in the District Public Prosecutor’s Office of Ljubljana, one in the District Attorney’s Office of Maribor, one in 2012 at the Police Administration and three at the National Investigation Office and four in 2013 at the National Investigation Office or the Ministry of Interior and one in the District Public Prosecutor’s Office. It's all 14. If there are these 14 people here who are now in charge of the entire bank hole, I don't know, and it's hard to judge. However, we have not actually received any results from these complaints either. And the National Assembly is the one who can point out this can also point out that certain procedures in the judiciary, in the judiciary, work long, perhaps too long, even if we are talking about today's banking system as a priority, and that's what we're all saying today. Although I think we're going to have a lot of priority, probably even in health care, probably even in construction and so on, here I think mainly about the judiciary and justice to do. And that's what needs to be done. And from the perspective of the Bank of Slovenia, this activity so far, it is said, to point out the suspicions of crime, I personally regard it as a relative discount and such action, when it has been so far, is unlikely to give any results on liability for the bank hole. Even according to the size of the bank hole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The first three panellists are Masters Katarina Hočevar, Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, welcome. In 2008, the US administration, under the leadership of George Bush Jr., launched a large-scale aid programme to deal with the crisis immediately after the crisis. The U.S. government has immediately spent more than $230 billion on more than seven hundred vulnerable banks, and many believe that this has prevented the collapse of the financial system. While the United States, Ireland, Iceland quickly carried out their homework, of course we behaved differently in Slovenia. In the aforementioned countries, problems in the banking sector and the threat they pose were identified early and dealt decisively with. In Slovenia we took 5 years, 2 ministers, 2 parliaments, 2 governors and 3 government teams. Instead of dealing with problems immediately, we delayed until the reality of the situation in our banks was communicated to us by others. The first to deal seriously with the banking nightmare was the Minister of the State Gazette, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, who, despite the fact that the resolution of the banking system with the bad bank was not too close to him, saw the seriousness of the situation in which our banking sector was located and made an unloving decision to set up a bad bank for him. So where are the main differences between us and the countries that appear to have already endured the crisis? The first is certainly the mentioned speed of action, and we have unfortunately already missed this train in Slovenia. The second is that in the US, for example, the funds invested in bank resolution are almost fully recovered, while in Slovenia we still throw citizens' funds into state-owned companies without knowing what we want and what we want to pursue. Thirdly, and in my opinion, the most important difference is that abroad it is quite clear that banks must become independent as soon as possible and that the state has nothing to look for as owner. While, of course, we already have defenders of national interest standing on the trenches and defending at least partial ownership in banks. Banks are thus becoming a lactus paper to test the maturity of Slovenian politics and society as a whole. Wasn't 3 billion of our hard lessons about national interest enough for us at school? Despite all the top policy experts, all the good intentions and excellent legislation adopted in this National Assembly have not been able to avoid the incestive attitude of politics, state companies and banks and the attempt to embody the left and right Slovenian oligarchs who were born in offices with a view to the Market of the Republic. The time has come for us to stop drifting and seek out complex ways of optimal government. There is a simple formula for how to separate politics, state banks and state-owned enterprises and achieve optimal governance, and this formula is called privatisation. The first test of how serious the policy is in order to free the economy of its network will therefore clearly be the privatisation of state banks. And the same is true, because it was in the state banks that a breeding ground for the crisis that took place in Slovenia. Of course, the bank's hole was not created on its own because the bank does not approve the loan, the bank is just an institution, a pile of bricks and cement. Each decision is subject to a person’s name and surname, and it will be interesting to see which names will appear when reviewing the bank’s credit maps and the links between these names. However, before we begin the witch hunt and before this debate or the general media lynch comes to light, it is necessary to make it clear that no one is guilty in the rule of law until he is legally convicted and that everything that turns out to be unwise is also illegal. In our desire to punish the culprits for the occurrence of the Slovenian banking disaster, we must maintain calm blood and judgment, because otherwise we may have to let the main culprits slip away, or worse, that we will have to pay them back in the end. Politics has already done enough in the story around Slovenian banks, so it is time to withdraw and make room for the institutions of the country, which are therefore called and trained. And I suggest they spit in their hands and start working intensely.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President. In this debate on the rehabilitation of banks, I would also like to contribute to my opinion on this issue. I believe that, for the first time, we must do everything we can to find the culprits for this big bank hole and that because of what they have done they will answer, and for the second time, we will do everything we can to enable the law enforcement authorities to do their job. Therefore, when we talk about the rehabilitation of banks, that is very, very important to do everything Sorry, I have changed the sheet So when we talk about what needs to be done, it is very important that the police, the prosecution and the court do their work as necessary, it is said that this work should be given the highest priority. [[...]] [[...]] There is also a need to train the KPC, which is to give more emphasis and to prepare better legislation for the work of this Commission. The resignation of President Klemenčič and the two deputies, of course, told us his. He also warned this national assembly that we must act. How can we act? We can act by drafting legislation that will allow the Commission to act more effectively. It is also important that we respect the work of this Commission and give more respect to all those working in these places, namely the President, the assistants and so on. With regard to the recapitalisation of banks, I would also like to say that it is very important that we do everything, and indeed everything that never happens to us again. I believe that it is too little to talk about the need to start an economy and to train or recapitalise banks to be able to support economic organisations. And then we think we've done everything. I'm sure that's not the case, and we didn't do everything with it. We recapitalised the banks, we invested 4.7 billion euros. What about the banks themselves? Did we ask ourselves what needed to be done so that the bank hole could not be reopened? So far, we have had to recapitalise the banks twice, so I think it is necessary for all those who have caused these bank holes to respond; to demand that both the administrations and the supervisory councils do their work in order or that, if they are not effective, we suspend them or resign them. Then I think that the banks themselves need to take measures to make the banks more efficient. It is important to say that we demand bank rehabilitation programmes and demand responsibility, I repeat, personal responsibility – this is also what Mr Šircelj is talking about today and I very much agree with him. The privatisation of banks itself is what I think will finally solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat. It is Mrs Iva Dimic, then Andrei Vizjak, Aleksandra Osterman and Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all, my fellow Members of Parliament. Christian Democrats have already, through the entire process of clearing up banking problems in Slovenia, warned that instead of criminal complaints against those who have caused huge bank losses, this government is actually protecting them. Besides getting the feeling that people are being protected by the media. First of all, this is a crime that threatens all of us, and worst of all, it endangers our craftsmen, our children, your grandchildren. Whether you admit it or not, the problem is that the banks are mostly state-owned. We're hearing about rehabilitation, about the privatisation of banks, and I'm wondering what it's like for the coalition to really come to this. And the saddest part is that in these 23 years, we will be able to save Slovenia, which we are all proud of, these banks, I don't know how many times. Sanized at the expense of our future generations. What helps is recapitalisation and rehabilitation, which has been so many times since there are always one and the same people in key places. As I said yesterday, I never doubted that our laws and all the rules were the same until this banking order happened. Someone can call the bank and get a hundred million credit, and then, as an offended child, he complains that he didn't get 115 million, but he only got 100 million, and on the other hand, we have ordinary citizens who just want to raise the limit a little bit or take the credit by 10,000. What does it take to get this? There's not enough phone calls. They've got to bring back the last paychecks, all the insurance, one bunch of documents. So he takes the man all he wants to take the credit. And worst of all, for a credit of 10,000 euros, in addition to all the paperwork that needs to be submitted, the bank requires the ordinary citizen to secure the loan, in real estate, with a house worth 200,000 euros. Yes, I agree. The credit is very well secured. But whoever got 100 million credit doesn't even have a secured loan on the phone. This shows that there are double criteria in our country and that it is really necessary to end it. I wonder if the government coalition really has this purpose and will. For this reason, Christian Democrats, citizens and taxpayers call on the government to remedy the banking system transparently, without least doubting the correctness of the procedures and the minimum use of tax money. Responsibility and consequences should be borne to the full by those who had the strength and the ability to make decisions. To present to the public the real state of the Slovenian banking system, the names responsible for the situation and to take decisive action against them by withdrawing powers and criminal proceedings. Those who have been involved in creating the current situation must by no means participate in teams that will remedy the situation, and I will summarise this with one universal human famous bazaar. The country is a tree with branches. These are companies, these are banks. And there's birds sitting on them. When it does, birds fly away when it calms down, birds fly back. But what does it matter? Everyone sits on the other branch, not the one he used to sit on, on the other. And that's the problem in Slovenia. One and the same birds sit on the branches, and when they do, they fly and fly back, not the same, to the other branch. Therefore, we also call on the Government to put professional people with high ethical standards and integrity-based references who have not participated in the emergence of the current situation and to put a strong end to the negative political impact on business decisions, in order to avoid concealment and new damage to the responsible places for the supervisory councils and administrations of banks. Slovenia has experts, good, politically undecided, who work to work for the good of Slovenia, and these people must be allowed to come and help solve matters. In order to make a financial and substantive assessment and to make clear to the public all the possibilities for the resolution of the banking system, both by borrowing loans on international financial markets and by using the European Stability Mechanism’s funds. The government should realise the possibility that is more favourable to taxpayers than to those whose objectives may be simply to cover up injury cases. And do not deceive the public that we are sovereign and thus maintain our sovereignty. Please, who's the sovereign who's in charge and credit? You're sovereign when you live off the work of your hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u29	Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u30	Your Honor! The rehabilitation of the banking system in our country is an extremely important event. We probably don't know him, because we're talking about big sums, billions. The problem is crucial, because we will impose these burdens on our craftsmen, our children, our grandchildren. They'll be paying for these sins of bailing out the banking system. And we have been rehabilitating the banking system for the second time in the short history of the Slovenian state. Obviously because we didn't learn anything for the first time. For the first time, we have not prevented and eradicated the root causes of the bank hole decades ago, and if we do not learn from this case of the resolution of the banking system, then we will not prevent the next holes that can follow soon. This is also the main purpose of this meeting and also the recommendations that we have made in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Those responsible for the resulting bank hole must take this responsibility and go where they belong. Certainly not in this bank, in the economy or even in the supervisory authorities of these banks. The way in which the banking system is being rehabilitated, in which we will cast a strong over €5 billion, does not make it clear that those responsible will answer, and this is a key and fundamental problem and fear – that we will also spend the taxpayer's money on it. Why am I saying this? By recapitalising the banks, we did not get extraordinary administrations, nor did we get replacements in these banks. So those who were part of the problem will solve this problem. I don't think this is the right way. The cost of repairing the banking system is also dizzy, unreasonablely high. We owed ourselves at extremely high interest rates, even though we had cheaper money available. The Prime Minister and Minister Cuffer also said that this is a way to maintain our sovereignty. What sovereignty, the Secretary of State, do we maintain if we can ask Brussels to use our money to rehabilitate our banks? What sovereignty if we owe ourselves across borders and are at the limit of creditworthiness? Should we pay off a billion euros next year for domestic and foreign interest, at 8.5 billion euros in revenue into the state budget? More than 10% of our income will be spent on interest alone. Dearly beloved, we are already far below this sovereignty limit and therefore I believe that the last debt was very imprecise where we in a closed market were indebted at an extremely high interest rate of 4,85 %, which is an extremely high interest rate in relation to comparable countries, and this will be the price. I think the government and the Ministry of Finance have easily agreed to this because we know and you know you won't be paying it back. That someone else, another generation, would pay it back. This is very irresponsible to others and to young people and to all those who will, of course, take over this pressure of saving Slovenia in the long run. That is why I do not think that the problem will be solved by such expensive rehabilitation of the banking system. Sanitated, healed banks will soon become sick again if the economy does not recover. There are no measures to extend the economy or economic activity, since over-indebted companies will not receive loans despite the rehabilitation banks because they are over-indebted companies. Unindebted companies and under-indebted companies receive credit regardless of whether the banks are healthy or not, as there are so many resources on the financial market. So if the banks' recovery measures are not followed by economic recovery and corporate debt measures, then we will soon have a bank hole again and we will refuel billions of taxpayers' money. Another unwise solution is the resolution of the banking system, which is the decommissioning of the holders of subordinated bonds. I believe that it is highly likely that these holders will succeed in bringing lawsuits before the Constitutional Court and that their debt will have to be repaid in three, four or five years' time, as it did in the case of Mr Kramar. Because more than clearly you have intervened retroactively in the rights of these people, and I believe that this rehabilitation of the banking system is accompanied by so many problems, both in terms of the volume of money and in terms of transparency and also not by accounts for the damage caused by bankers, that there is likely to be a need for any further rehabilitation of the banking system in this country. So, ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we demand that, regardless of the political lock, regardless of any other property of individuals, those who have taken the credits at issue, who have given the loans at issue and who have supervised these transactions, we think primarily of the Bank of Slovenia. If these people do not pay their bills, then the resolution of the banking system will fail, billions of taxpayer money will be thrown away and future generations will be even more in debt burdens than they could be.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. Mrs. Alexander Osterman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! We are in a situation in which a typical Slovenian story develops, which is characterized by betting with guilt, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is now to be put on the shameful pillar. Typical Slovenian. However, if we look at it realistically, there were loans that were cheap and affordable throughout the world and also in Europe. Loans were available to all, both individuals and banks, at favourable prices and under favourable conditions. This was the reason for the financial crisis, but it did not start, which we like to forget, in Slovenia. The crisis began in the United States with the bankruptcy of one of the smaller banks. At that time, no one imagined that a year and a half after the collapse of this small bank would be half the world in crisis. Half the world! The banking system has collapsed, not only in Slovenia, but also in Germany, which is now the engine of the European economy. However, we must be aware that the difference between Germany and Slovenia is considerable. The Slovenian small, two-million-dollar market must be export-oriented if we are to have a developed economy, which means that we are dependent on economic partners. With the collapse of the SFRJ and the independence of Slovenia, quite a few good companies have collapsed. We ran out of orders in the middle of the night. Suddenly, we found ourselves in a situation where large companies that had been doing well until then began to fail, to live or were forced to restructure overnight, resulting in a problem in their own banking system. We must be aware that 90% of the resulting bank hole was created in the 2005-2008 resistance. We've been waiting five years for the bank system to be rehabilitated. Only the past governments can assume responsibility for waiting. The purpose of the careful review since August 2013 carried out by our government was to assess, through independent international experts, the strength of the existing banking system, in the hypothetical circumstances of the most stressful events and to assess and identify the possible capital deficit that a bank and the banking system could have. We know that the recent amendment to the Banking Act contains certain measures to ensure accountability that will enable law enforcement authorities to exercise even more effectively their powers relating to the prosecution of offences committed in the field of banking. The law also lays down the obligation to protect confidential data. The Banking Act extends the general limitation deadlines relating to criminal and compensation liability related to the management of the function of a member of the Bank's management or supervision body to a fourfold. At the same time, it states that the Extraordinary Administration must immediately inform Banka Slovenije, KPK and the authorities of detection and prosecution of any suspected corruption that has been detected or even reported in their work. In the past, the economic crisis and overburning of the economy have not been recognised, nor has proceedings against the culprits for the damage suffered immediately. Most of what was done was the replacement of supervisory boards and administrations. That's not enough. Our government has commissioned it to break with this practice, which is proven to be harmful and measurable in billions. Billions. It will therefore take measures to determine the liability of the person responsible for the contested loans and consequently the situation in the banking system. The real detection of irregularities in banks is essential for restoring public confidence in our banking system. The perpetrators will be punished both in damages and in criminal matters. According to Minister Cufer, there is a painful transparent disclosure. The authorities of persecution and the judiciary will determine the offence, not us, not us Members. We are obliged to provide a legislative framework, a basis that will enable the prosecution, the police and the judiciary to effectively and effectively prosecute crimes, including bank crimes. However, it must be borne in mind that the bank hole, which we will be solving through recapitalisation, is only one part of a large debt hole in companies and, if these companies do not reduce their debt and improve their business, will continue to weaken the portfolio in banks. Knowledge and the fact that most companies are unable to obtain credits is crucial, and it will also be difficult to obtain credits in the case of rehabilitated banks, so in the government we have foreseen measures related to corporate debt and, in cooperation with Banka Slovenije, we will also need to consider measures of corporate systemic debt or the financial restructuring of companies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to start talking in this House about the possibilities and measures to start our economy. The way we're going to attract foreign investors we're all talking about, not who's going to have any client card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Marko Pogačnik, please. If only I could warn you that the following are Happy Meh, Ivan Hršak and Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u34	Madam President, thank you for the floor. In opening, I would like to express my surprise that the place where the representatives of the Bank of Slovenia should sit is empty again. Banka Slovenije is the main regulator and chief supervisor of the banking system and today we are discussing the rehabilitation of the bank, the almost six billion bank holes, and the main regulator and supervisor of the system are not here. I think that says a lot about what the relationship of Banka Slovenije to the supervision of the banking system was probably in the past and that, in all likelihood, this is my personal opinion, the great responsibility for the situation is also due to the regulator. To help Slovenian taxpayers in the short history of Slovenia, for the second time, at the expense of taxpayers, the banks are proof to me that Slovenia has not survived the transition. Compared to the transition countries of Eastern Europe, it is only Slovenia that will for the second time rehabilitate the banking system at the expense of taxpayers. And what made this happen? Because we have successfully saved the banks in 1996, but we have not taken the additional measures necessary to ensure that this event does not recur. And here I see the biggest mistake in not privatising banks in 2001. This is clearly evident from the annual reports that this was the policy and the policy responsible. But we know who led the governments in those years – SD and LDS. Bank hole six billion. The SDS was the first parliamentary party to draw attention to the resolution of the banking system. In 2009, we proposed the establishment of a bad bank. And I personally believe that if a bad bank was set up in 2009, the banking system would be restored today, it would be profitable, but I do not rule out that it would be privatised already. And that the consequences for taxpayers, the economy and the budget would be significantly lower. Who's responsible here? It was then the government of Borut Pahor. We were interested in monitoring Banka Slovenije's relationship to a bad bank, always negative, always rejecting the establishment of a bad bank. Once again, Banka Slovenije will be able to say why she has so strongly opposed the establishment of a bad bank, which we have today, but unfortunately, four years too late. It is also a matter for government representatives. In the 2014 budget, EUR 1.2 billion was foreseen for the resolution of the banking system, a calculation made by the Bank of Slovenia. Today it takes about four times. Has not the Bank of Slovenia again done the task as it should? We ask the government why the possibility of drawing funds from the ESM fund is not being used in this rehabilitation. Yesterday's Finance Committee made it clear – the government did not check the conditions under which the ESM would provide funds to Slovenia. And we all know that the funds there are cheaper and difficult after you don't have a variant A and B to decide that you're going to be credited on the outside market. The resolution of the banking system itself does not provide any assurance for the development of the economy and for the growth of GDP. The Prime Minister explains that after this rehabilitation the Slovenian banks will be among the most healthy in Europe and I now really expect the measures of the new government to start the economy. If the economy doesn't start, we'll be able to rehabilitate the banks in one or two years. And I really expect that one of the first measures – we know the situation in which Slovenian companies are in a position to be overly indebted to European companies, and above all that their problem is a short-term debt – that banks will have this ability to convert the short-term loans that companies have into long-term loans. I think this would be the first necessary step to start companies. And I expect that this will be done in a short time, at the beginning of the year, if the Slovenian banks are really so healthy, I do not think that these problems should be. Above all, I expect responsibility to be clarified here as well. In Slovenia, we have hunted foxes too many times, but the one who left the henhouse open and we have not touched.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Pogačnik. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, for copying the magnetograms of past years and really doing a very important job because we have everything in e-mail. Of course, you also did what you did when you balanced, who's to blame, that you're Social Democrats, the KICs, the party, the liberals and all the others called 20 times, which I think is extremely good, but you didn't mention anything else. Now here's the deal. I believe that this request for this debate is completely rhetorical today. He does not hold that the SDS would want to do what he says because you had the opportunity to do so. Even today you can help, we can help all of us together to do something for our country if we work together. But we did not have a debate like today, based on the many answers we received last night, but today it is as if nothing had happened. We heard a lot of answers on the committee yesterday, and we also asked a lot of questions. There was the secretary of state, there was the vice governor, there was Mr Gaspari. And a lot of answers were given yesterday. It would be good to read, listen and see what they said about the bad bank, what the Bank of Slovenia did, of course, about the loans, about everything that was discussed today. These answers were given, but we do not hear, even though some may listen. But I think it's completely overturned that here today you are speaking or speaking to those who in the past governments had canvas and scissors in hand — you were ministers, secretary of state, responsible workers in this government — today you are saying what this government should do. This government is doing what it can and is doing at the moment to rehabilitate Slovenian banks and also the economy. Speaking of what someone's doing. Ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary, the police work, the investigators work, the prosecutors work. Do they work well enough and fast enough? As much as you can, as much as you can, as much as we let them. Let's work here in the National Assembly, work together, draft legislation and not confuse these systems, and not put them under what they would be. Of course, it would be reckless to say, "Do something, shut them down! "You can't lock yourself up like that. This country is closed by those who are called to do so. The police, the judiciary, of course, the prosecutors and those who have to do it, not here with those words, where we're really just confusing. And someone else should be working in this system. Which is the party, ladies and gentlemen, who says the PKK should be abolished? Who's that party? The one who suggests something needs to be done. It is necessary to allow the KPK to work and to do the same. I would also like to talk about this issue. Iva Dimic says what you're doing is a crime. These could be the actions that led the banks to this system. If these are criminal acts and if anyone knows these are criminal acts, let him make an indictment, let him suggest that he do something. Whether it's a crime or not, it's up to the prosecutors, not us, ladies and gentlemen. Eight banks were tested, and that's what they said, and that's what we've heard. But if the same people are in charge of banks, that's absolutely true. Would you like to ask — now that we are talking about who gave 110 million — who is the one who granted Bell such large loans that we now have a billion - dollar hole or even more? Who's that? Who is it that, on behalf of what I know, what morals, did this to Slovenian taxpayers? Why are we not talking about this when we want to balance our space? In fact, I would also like to talk about these so-called so-called social ties, which ladies and gentlemen of the SDS and other parties like to talk about or talk about. And I'll try to say what we said last night, if you don't know. In addition to those who are certainly guilty, where does Daniel Blake, President and Vice-President of the New KBM belong? Who does it belong to? In 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, he was president, vice-president or member of the Supervisory Board of the Maribor Bank. You like to talk about Mrs. Bratusek being there. She was, and there was Topplek, and there was someone else. All of them, if they're responsible, have to answer. And I'm also talking about Topplek, and I'm talking about Brother, and you're just talking about Brother, like there weren't any others. Who were the Chairmans of the Supervisory Boards in the New Ljubljana Bank? Do you know Igor Marinsk? Do you know Peter Ješovnik? The queen of Tasic, you know? Do you know Igor Marinska, Andrijano Starina Kosem, Metko Tekavčič? These are the people who are from the so-called policy and who have been on these supervisory committees. But you're only talking about one thing. And it would be good to talk about everyone who had fingers in between, and everyone has to answer, no matter where they belong. However, it was essential to me yesterday that what the Secretary of State said or said was that the first act was done by repairing and enabling banks to do so, that we were able to rehabilitate Slovenian banks. However, I found it extremely interesting that yesterday in this debate, which was at least very interesting to me, because I am not a member of this committee, we spoke very much about what the government will do immediately, in this place, even though it has not been 24 hours since they transferred the necessary funds to these banks. "What will the government do? Why doesn't he do anything? "And this government has done much. I am not her advocate, as I am not of anyone else, but of course I support actions, so that banks can start working on a programme that has also been adopted. I agree that it's probably too long to get a conviction. It's too long. But that's the system. Your party president has also been waiting a long time for him to be convicted. That's the system. And we have to respect this system. We cannot demand that the deadlines be such that they do not respect all the legal, legal standards and all the means that individuals have at their disposal. Therefore, I would like to say that it would be fair to speak primarily today about what we must do in the National Assembly. To create the right atmosphere, not to keep talking about these social ties, companionship and companionships, and all the other connections that are everywhere, you can find them at all ends. But someone has to investigate them, and it's not us, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. Mr Ivan Hršak is next. [[advertising from the hall]] I understand you don't have enough time. You're not gonna take that 3 plus 15 seconds. Okay. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, followed by Ivan Grill and Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's probably nice to live in a country where economic growth is, where jobs are, where optimism is. These times are, of course, far behind us, and it will take a long time for them to return. And the condition that they will come back anytime is to find the reasons that have led us far from it. The causes of the bankruptcy of Slovenia lie in corporateism, in the harmful connection of the paide capitalists, governments and banks, who, in their desire to achieve their own selfish benefits, have forgotten the fundamental mission of the institutions to which they belong. A monstrous apparatus was created that devoured its own country, which it was supposed to build and develop after its basic mission. Does this monster machine still exist, and who benefits from it? This is written in the book Previrant or why Slovenia bankrupted. And a lot of other, very clever thoughts. April this book came out and what we're talking about is what we all know. The problem is that this national council with this government is not capable of cutting this Gordy knot of a monster machine. Therefore, after two years of sitting in this House, my conclusion is that it would be very fair for us – today is Friday, Tuesday is Christmas Eve – to citizens and citizens one Christmas-new anniversary gift, namely the commitment to start a procedure for the dissolution of parliament and government and call for early elections. May citizens and citizens elect a new government and a new parliament. Because with the actions of this government and this Parliament, and even before, there was no significant difference, since the roots of bankruptcy date back 20 years, of course we are only punishing citizens and citizens, instead of punishing them today when we are talking about the banking mafia, which is linked to the political mafia. We are not capable, ladies and gentlemen. And many times, thank God I have this case, I say I made mistakes in my own company and went bankrupt. Shall I tell you the terrible consequences of my bankruptcy? I lost the entire asset, which was worth 4.5 million at the credit bank in 2008. I don't have anything, but I don't regret anything because I made a mistake and I have to be punished. Who will be punished, ladies and gentlemen? Nobody. No one, because the culprits have already escaped us. They're gone. Or they're so hidden that we can't avoid them. You know, the advantage of being in the National Assembly – I say this more to citizens and citizens, you know anyway – is that you can study. And when I go to see the documents 20 years ago, I find people who are very high today and who were in LHB Frankfurt. Look who was sitting there in the control councils and administrations and where they are today. And on purpose, I don't want to operate on names and surnames, because it seems to me that we're doing injustice to people anyway, because the most powerful and the most useful are, in fact, almost uncatchable. Let us give people an eternal New Year's gift and stop ourselves because we are unable to solve the fundamental problems of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Money is a holy ruler, it is obviously still held in Slovenia, and those who have money, of course, have a great influence that things do not go as well in this area as we want. We are also trying to make this happen through such discussions here, and some of you are very cleverly opposed to it. The government of Alenka Bratušek and, of course, the coalition's results of these stressful tests, as well as the transfer of bad claims to a bad bank, are taken for granted as a great achievement as a victory, as if it were something that could not be realized to anyone else. Is this really a victory? Is this really something that our taxpayers or our citizens and citizens can look forward to in the future? What does this bank hole, almost 5 billion, bring? The debt or debt of each Slovenian, as previously mentioned by his colleague Shircelj, is EUR 13 000 500. That's what's coming next. And if Janshe's government were to get the results of these stress tests, it would be on the streets -- at least that's what the former ambassador of the United States of America Mussomeli said -- probably 20,000 gamblers and probably would [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, I'm sorry. Good thing Mrs. Potts is listening. I'm sorry, yes, the protestors, and we'd be running here probably very, very serious demonstrations. But now that this government and this coalition have been waiting for these stressful tests, we've been given almost some kind of victory. So much for manipulating you. And what else is very symptomatic about that? Bankers, the anti-corruption commission, last but not least, the media and influential individuals say that it is the fault of all of this in politics that it is now time for politics to do something. But who is politics? That's all of us. Are you on this page or on that side feeling that you are responsible for what we have in Slovenia? It is also certainly the responsibility of the coalition to oppose such solutions, proposals or, last but not least, initiatives, particularly by the opposition of our party, in order to speed up the process of resolving these problems. We propose concrete measures. Finally, we ask, please, that even the names of those who are guilty of having come to this in Slovenia be made known and that you all refer to bank secrecy, such secrecy that everyone who is not legally convicted is innocent and so on. Yesterday, the National Investigation Office, with a large pump, reviewed our health care and our medical species, where, of course, there are also convictions of a valuable corruption story, although it was in fact a small amount of money, compared to those matters that are in the bank hole. But look at the fragment, almost for every city or place where these things have happened, are already people's names and names. And it was maybe a couple of thousand euros. But here we're talking about billions, and it's banking secrecy, or we can't talk about it because it's still taboo. I agree that policy is also responsible in the part where individuals, who can also be politicians, have the option of codecision. But don't generalize that politics is all the same. And now the question for those who give us the ball is that we are the ones who have to do something. I ask you why Mr Klemenčič – former Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior – as President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, bankers, Banka Slovenije or anyone has not proposed an appropriate law or some changes to the law to enable them to work more easily and more effectively? It's just press conferences to spit on politics like we're the ones who can't breathe. Who is responsible for not being able to get the documents from the Prosecutor or the Prosecutor's Office at the New Ljubljana Bank? Is it our fault? Did the prosecution propose a change of law or anything? It's not. In fact, we are all making excuses, we are the ones who will bear this responsibility, but, a respected coalition, a respected government, we are certainly not responsible in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and neither am I personally. And such a meeting as it is today could help to speed things up a little bit or partially recover, but obviously it won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill. It's Mr. Mirko Brulc's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u42	Nice greetings to all present. The benefit of this session today is merely to find that we are all for the proper authorities to take action and to deal with those who have cooked these problems. That's the only thing. On the other hand, the ping-pong is exclusively on one side, on the other hand, who is more to blame, who is not. Of course, the state has nothing to do with this. That we're all guilty and so on, I don't agree with that. Well, a colleague went out, I'd ask him not to promote his book here in the National Assembly because it's not allowed. And don't talk about the Christmas present, so she doesn't mess up Christmas. Let him back off, and that's it. He also caused one small hole in this package. Let's be honest with each other, and let's stop yelling at each other here. Not all the culprits have escaped, not at all. They're waiting, they're in line, they're already sitting, and that's the way it is. I'm just sorry that the judiciary didn't start this activity 15 years ago, not today. But I'm glad things have moved. It's over. Someone said there's no optimism here today. I'm getting optimism from a team of Minister Cuffer who moved the case. It's amazing. Read European media, reports, the European Council and so on. It's some neutral thing, it's not homeboys here and there. We'll bite each other because it's just a Slovenian habit. Remember, back in the old years, when there was always someone on the border, once, once again, we stepped in together and we were probably. But when we don't have an external enemy, we have to bite each other, read each other and do literally stupid things, and that's before the holidays. Seven hours or how much he sows you. That's all I'd say. Look at the material. Who's making a fool out of who? SDS is willing to pay for this photocopying, reproduction and so on. That's what taxpayers pay for. No one in Parliament has read this because there is no need to read it and it is not a job. It's fruitless work, 700 pages of "klobas" old magnetograms, and I don't know what. This country has nothing to do with it. Tax collectors don't do anything. And it's a waste of time. Let us strain our species and begin to solve our problems in the way that they are solved with the help of the Ministry and the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Matthew Tonin, followed by Jani Möderndorfer and Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u44	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In this short-term period of time, I would like to draw attention mainly to three things, the way this bank hole is perceived, the importance of bank ownership and the way forward from this deep bank hole. I would like to remind you of 2012 when we talked about the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank. These were 100 million dollars, 100 million, 381 million dollars for the New Ljubljana Bank. At the time, the whole circus seemed unheard of to throw some less than €500 million into these two banks. Today, when we throw 3,000 million euros into these state banks, this is a great success. And when I said that the day we were familiar with stress tests, on Thursday, I had in mind that this is a black Thursday for future generations, because that means 3,000 million euros less money for research and development, for education, for infrastructure and everything else. It's about bank ownership. For a very long time, it has been considered that ownership of banks must be State-owned because it is a national interest. I ask myself, and I ask you, what is the national interest in lending and lending money. Why is it that only one person can do this, or should do so by some important state institution, rather than by a private bank? If you look at business outcomes you will be able to find that foreign banks in Slovenia are doing well, also stress tests have shown that they have no problems, while national interest is primarily a second word for the large outflow of state money to private accounts. And how do we proceed? It seems important to me that we take some knowledge of how to proceed from this debate. I'm sure the supervisory councils should be answering the questions, the ones with the ones who've been watching these things. And if anyone does, there must be at least one case when the overseer is responsible for such a hole with his property. Then the overseers will act differently, and in the future, there may be no more such a hole. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Tonin. Time's up. Mr Jani Möderndorfer is next, as we say then, Joseph Jerovšek and Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we are essentially, I must repeat, a witness to an extraordinary session that is really unnecessary. Unnecessary for several reasons, but even if I listed them, it would be a waste of time again. If you know what I mean, it's all a waste of time, because what some want to show back is long lost. And talking about something that's lost isn't really wise. However, it is wise to refresh your memory only in the parts for which the proposer requested the convening of this extraordinary meeting, and if so, then there is something to be said. To make it easier, let us remember the time of the government of John Janša when there was still a time of fat cows and when they had ideas in this country about what should be done, how and how. The government was appointed with prominent ministers and was then also appointed and elected Minister Jože P. Damian. Jože P. Damian, who was Minister for a very short period of time, and today I think we will probably have very little time or opportunity to find out why he really decided to go and that he doesn't want to be Minister anymore. I believe you'll find a bunch of reasons and say what was officially written. But Mr Jože P. Damian, this is familiar to all of you, writes blogs and I also believe that you read his blogs regularly, at least yesterday I listened to the Committee on Finances interesting findings which, of course, he wrote himself and you have identified them. But why is it important that I mention this blog at all? Because he actually finds out a lot of things. Who, in fact, is to blame for our work today is also called his blog, who is to blame for the bank hole. And in this blog, he writes the following things very clearly. It's everyone who really wanted to have one of these, even the cost of going to hell one day, just having one of these. See, the period when the biggest hole was created in this country was essentially the period of the government of Janez Janša. It begins: "Where today the SDS are looking for culprits for a bank hole, we should first look at ourselves. The hole was created mainly in state-owned banks at a time when the government was led by a coalition led by the SDS and when the three main state banks were run by administrations and supervised by the supervisory councils, "and most importantly, "as set by the government coalition under the leadership of the SDS." The irony is that first you create the conditions, you make the bank hole, then you figure it out, and at the end of that same one, who does all of this, they're looking for the culprit, who's to blame for creating this bank hole. Why am I mentioning him? Because he was a minister in your government. And that's a little different than if someone who wasn't in your government said that. You understand what I'm saying. He knew your moves. I believe that then Minister Bajuk did not like it, but one thing he undisputedly found out and today he claims it, so turn to him for obvious reasons, not to me. This is that what you are saying today is that the state was not a good bank manager, he himself admits that the only right options for starting the privatisation of the bank – and this is our biggest, NLB – has actually done LDS. After the privatisation began, however, it was more or less stopped and never taken to the end, always and continuously, in all governments, not just yours. Do we understand each other? And that's very important. It is therefore overturned to speak today, as my colleague told me before me, to see what was not actually done. The other thing that the colleague chairing yesterday on the Committee on Finance has also identified and I fully agree with, but also notes from P. Damjan, is that regulators are undoubtedly responsible for what happened, because they are not the right time and at the time it was intended to do so. Undoubtedly, in the end, the central bank. Absolutely. Therefore, we must make it clear to all those who mention that we are looking for culprits that these people should never again perform any similar jobs or tasks in this country, because they have already demonstrated by one act that they are not for this and I believe that their reference to working in these and these places during this period will not be a positive reference when they are looking for new jobs, as this knowledge is certainly not appropriate. In the end, let me say what's most important to me. It was fitting for everyone, both left and right governments in the past, that things didn't go all the way. One because the voters didn't like it and they were afraid of what the elections would look like in the end. Today they're hiding behind the formula to say it was a national interest. Someone presented this as a national interest. And another, which is even more important, so that some could privatize what could be privatized and eventually ended the piano. I'm talking about Istrabenz and all the other companies, we could now list who's in this package. And I liked that sentence he was closing with. So why and who's to blame for the bank hole. "This is the simplest answer to the question why state owners did not want to monitor their banks better. They didn't want the dance to end. Dance for their boys. "Let's ask ourselves who these guys are, where these guys were sitting and what they were doing. That's the only answer. But this dance was very expensive. "A €10 billion dance drink – for €6 billion of a bank hole and for €4 billion of lost GDP in time – we will all pay." But these are the facts. So one more time. It is indeed such an extraordinary meeting, the proponents you have proposed to talk about it, this moment is really perverse. In fact, you're looking for something you need to look for on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Möderndorfer. Mr. Shircelj, on behalf of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Kotnik Poropat, who actually agrees with me on responsibility. The second question is why the whole process did not start 15 years ago. Yes, I am, too, in order to start 15 years ago, but there was no interest at the time either to start, nor to change anything in the banking sphere, nor to give credit more transparently and in a different way at the time. Because of the fact that it was known who had scissors and canvas here and who could manage state property through banks. Not only does he manage only banks, but through banks he actually knows the whole economy, especially because banks usually have all the data on the economy. And this network actually comes out, as I have pointed out many times today, from twenty or twenty or twenty years ago. This is not about the Slovenian Democratic Party judging anyone. And those who say we belong to anyone, no. We point out that the problem in the banking system is such that this problem needs to be addressed here and therefore we also propose certain conclusions or certain measures, including with regard to the determination of liability, but in accordance with the role of the National Assembly, not according to any investigator or similar to what the judiciary actually does. And that's why there are questions that want to relativize this issue, and this session, which simply means that today it's all a mess because the bank hole was created because it was created today, will be created tomorrow, the morning, and probably in two or three years. Of course, such a thesis is extremely dangerous and likely protects someone. He protects someone from being held accountable. Or to identify those who are truly responsible. In this context, it is also a discussion by colleague Möderndorfer that this meeting is unnecessary, that everything is already lost, that it is a waste of time, in short, that the government of Janez Janša is the one who also had a certain period in the hands of the scissors and canvas. It's not like that. That's what the facts show. This is also shown by the fact of recruitment in state banks or in individual banks. Here I have mentioned the New Ljubljana Bank more than once, where no recruitment of the President of the Administration happened by accident, but by confirming the leaders of the left-wing political parties. Finally, this is shown by the names of the members of the administrations of the New Ljubljana Bank. This also shows that, at the time of the government of Janez Janša, the President of the administration was not from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Nor was he a person close to or a sympathizer of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thus, the presidents of the New Ljubljana Bank, or before the Ljubljana Bank, were the following. Anton Slapernik, who was also the Republic Secretary for Finance, from 1992 to 1998. Then Marko Voljč was here until 2004. He was also the one who was also acting as a new terminator when the constructive non-trust of the government of Loyzet Peterlet was filed. At that time, however, the National Assembly did not confirm it. In addition, from 2004 to 2009, Mr Marjan Kramar was President of the Government at the time of Janez Janša and, among other things, was Adviser to the SFRJ Presidency and Head of the Cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Which means, if you want, he's been somewhat politically discolored. Mr Draško Veselinovic, who was President of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank from February 2009 to May 2009, was also a candidate for the LDS. Finally, Mr Božo Jašovic was also a poor three-year secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. In other words, in the New Ljubljana Bank, politics has always played an extremely important role in the recruitment of members of administrations. Of course, I have to say in this, that members of the supervisory boards also changed the period of the government of Janez Janša, and some of them, of course, were also sympathizers of the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, the management in Nova Ljubljanska Banka has always been under the auspices of left-wing political parties. And that, of course, is why we are talking today mainly about the responsibility of the left option. We don't rule out right-wing options. We have no problems, and I mentioned Zvon 1 and Zvon 2 myself, if you want another project, if you know it, say it and therefore it is completely transparent. And once again, we don't belong here. On the other hand, there is someone who keeps saying that we are judging here, who has already condemned John Janshoe today in this hall. For example, Mr Meh said that John Janša too had been waiting a long time to be condemned. Where does it say he's going to be convicted? Did he convict him? Where does it say he's going to be convicted? On the one hand, this is a very big duplicity. On the one hand, the coalition today is talking about how we want to condemn someone, and on the other hand, it condemns someone, but it's almost definitive or legal, as he actually said. This is why, of course, we are talking today about each Slovenian paying for the recapitalisation of the state banks of €500, from the baby to the oldest person in Slovenia. And I think that's enough and a very big reason to discuss this. And I think it would be necessary for the coalition and the opposition together to adopt certain conclusions. However, since there was no decision at yesterday's coalition meeting, she rejected all the conclusions of the Slovenian Democratic Party and, on the other hand, she did not propose anything, but wants to achieve today that the meeting should be delivered in an empty manner. And when we asked questions a few days ago about this assignment and questions about this bank hole to the President of the Government and demanded that the answers of the President of the Government be discussed in general, it was said by the coalition, "know what, now don't discuss it, because we will be discussing it all Friday". Today is Friday, and the coalition does not want to discuss this because "all together is lame" and for it, the burden of every Slovenian citizen to recapitalise state banks with a thousand 500 euros is a lame question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of responsibility. Not only the responsibility of bankers and Bank of Slovenia, supervisors of bankers, but it is our responsibility. My opinion is that there should also be conclusions and unfortunately we cannot accept them here as an opposition party. Let me also answer the questions that are kind of banalizing today's agenda, if you "look at how much material and how much photocopying was needed". Ladies and gentlemen, you have photographed the material yourself and at your expense. And at EUR 3 billion, it's probably a material, even if it's a few hundred pages of material, a small cost that the taxpayers will actually have to pay. And that, of course, is why such questions are designed primarily to reduce the importance of this meeting and to simply create a collective responsibility and to forget it all in three, six or nine months. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a state-of-the-art and responsible act. This is a blurring of the actual state of affairs and a pressing of the head into the sand. It is necessary to face reality. We must also face the fact that today is an opportunity to talk about what this government will do. You know, this government got the results of the stress tests, presented them to the public in a proper pianist way to minimize everything, and paid banks 3 billion. It was, of course, an agreement with the European Commission, the European Central Bank and so on. In the meantime, she was still in debt for a billion and a half at 4.85% interest rates and did not even try to find a more favourable option for the country. Not for the government, but for the country, to pay less interest by taxpayers, because next year they will pay a billion interest on an 8-billion-dollar budget. And this spiral in paying interest goes in the direction of tightening the rope around the neck. I'm talking about the state. And that's not good. That is why I would expect this to be discussed constructively today. And once again, I say that the Slovenian Democratic Party has in the past also collaborated with the opposition in the framework of the development partnership, even when there were infamous tax reforms. Also at those meetings, on one September 2006 President Pahor agreed with tax reform. There are documents about this, just as there are documents about bad credits and there are documents about what Banka Slovenije has done. In any case, I continue to count on a little more seriousness and interest for taxpayers, each of whom has already paid EUR 1,500 per debt or recapitalisation of these three banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the disastrous consequences of the tax abyss – because it is not a hole, it is not a pit, it is a abyss – that we face in the country and has drastic consequences for the future of our future generations and for ourselves. Today we are hearing that this is taught - a phrase that this is a waste of time, although on Tuesday you all spoke when we proposed a different, in-depth debate that you will discuss in depth on Friday, but today is a waste of time. It's also learned, "the culprits will be punished" and so on. No, ladies and gentlemen, you are the political heirs of those who have been forever specialists for the abyss. Immediately after the war, they were filled with tens of thousands of innocent people, and in a recent period, you filled most of them with stolen money. Your political brothers. I'm not saying not from the other sex, because people were there. As I say, those who know how to rob government money smell. Up until now, Slovenia has been smelling and immediately plunging to the surface, but the ratio between them is at least 80% to 20% in favour of the left. Today, the Left is still fueled by this money for political purposes, to finance customers, and so scrupulously defend the debate on this and say that it is a waste of time and nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, we wouldn't have come to this point without your efforts. And I spoke the same thing about banks, about non-transparency, in the time of the Yangtze government, of any government, because I have such a feeling that I've already seen what's going on. How these smelly people have been involved in the country's robbery. And Dr. Vehovar said a few years ago, in the time of the Pahor government, that this is a crime that happens in banks. And you didn't react when you had authority. And, ladies and gentlemen, you continue to deceive people in all ways. Today is a waste of time, an unnecessary rumor. If one of us realizes what happened, it's not a waste of time. And I am convinced that more and more Slovenes and Slovenes are following this and demanding responsibility and will find these culprits, even though you are still so much for protecting them. Because you didn't start out on too many fish. Look, Mr Zdenko Rotter, who was a senior official of the Udba during the whole period and then a member of the cabinet of former President Kučan, one of the most influential, said in an interview that the money was outside and that it was coming back after a little while. If the man in Mr. Kučan's personal headquarters knows the money's out there, then I believe him. And I also noticed this diversion last night when Mrs Masha Kociper said that we have been facing economic growth for some time. I did a joke on Umar and, of course, this year's report on a negative 2.4% decline in economic growth, and she talked about 1.6% of economic growth and misleading people in front of witnesses and above all. Perhaps today they will make an excuse, as Mr Golubovic has said to the Prime Minister, that she is a perfect beginner in politics, which is the truth. That's what he said. But it's an irresponsibility, for running the country to make a perfect beginner. At the same time, Madam Prime Minister is making a full start when she answers financial questions to Members and Members of Parliament. It was like that on Monday. She couldn't answer one specific question, she was making a perfect start, although I know that financial matters are not a perfect start. In the area where she has been in addition to decisions for many years, a perfect start is made. And you are promoting this perfect conception here, Mr Golubovic, on behalf of the Group of Members. Ms Alenka Bratušek is familiar with the situation in banks because she was the supervisor of the New Credit Bank and read once again how she fought against write-offs and lending to other members of the Supervisory Board. And it's a rule that hand washes hand if they don't say anything about it. And you are still washing your hands against responsibility and the political instruction is certainly to protect larger fishes, to protect infamous forums and their members, so that the truth about how the banking gap was created and caused will not come to pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc, Mr Borut Ambrožič is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable representative of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague. Today, this debate takes place, among other things, at the level of finding the culprit for the resulting bank hole. We find out whether they are more guilty or more guilty of right or more guilty by this group, another group, this forum, another forum. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian People's Party we do not care what community, forum or political party comes from someone who has participated in the granting of unsecured loans. He has to answer for his actions and point. Once again, it has to answer and point, because these banks did not just make wrong business decisions. No, no, no. There's been a robbery in these banks. Robbery and looting of property of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Yes, it is the property of the people, for this hole must now be covered and filled by citizens and citizens. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we do not accept any excuses on banking secrecy and other obstacles that would impede the investigation of this banking crime. The investigation must be conducted in a comprehensive manner, not only through segments and individual credit transactions. It is necessary to review the entire operation of all banks which have received direct State resources, without exception and without excuse. If it is necessary to amend the law, we change it, but all authorities must have access to any information concerning all suspicious transactions in our banks. Whether this should be a public investigation, as the Commission intended to prevent corruption, should it be a specialised group of the National Investigation Office or a group of specialised external investigators, not matter. Whether the form is that way or different, but we all know that, and we all say that today, something has to happen. If they could do it, as we know, Icelanders, if the Irish think about it, then so can we, in Slovenia. We owe people such a move, and in the Slovenian People's Party we will never allow this past, this crime over the Slovenian nation, to simply be swept under the carpet. It is precisely in this rehabilitation, in the repair of the bank hole, that there can be no hiding places and there must be no secret procedures. Claims transferred to the so-called State Bad Bank cannot be kept secret. Data on the prosecution of individuals whose unpaid loans will be paid by taxpayers cannot be hidden, cannot hide behind so-called bank secrecy. One more thing. In these three most indebted banks, there must be an immediate change of management staff in the administrations, supervisory boards, management positions and the remaining management and control staff. All of this needs to be replaced and placed there with the past of unladen personnel. People who hope to open a credit card will no longer run into the name of their coworker and therefore put it in the drawer. These three banks need leadership to actively tackle recovery and prosecute criminal acts within these banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Mr. Borut Ambrožich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Greetings to all present. Today's address of the extraordinary meeting is entitled Proposal for a Recommendation concerning the rehabilitation of a billion-dollar bank hole in Slovenian banks. Somehow I can't get past the fact that it actually has the wrong address because it's talking about bank holes. We could say earlier that he's talking about bank worms or black holes, as we would call it in astro physics, where, simply put, when a star explodes, he creates a gravitational field that pulls all objects away. In our case, of course, we can talk about tax money. As a Maribor MEP, I come from a city where my home or headquarters is the second largest Slovenian bank, for which the RS Government has decided to sell it. As the sole owner, it has therefore recapitalised it with 870 million and in this way has somehow drawn up a strategy for the divestment of the country's bank assets. The title itself does not speak so much today about guilt or what has happened in the past or what will happen in the future, but about some general debate, which today's debate has also shown Members and Members. I also see, as someone who sits in the role of an unrelated Member, that it is fortunate to listen to both the left political option and the right political option to talk about the political responsibility of decision-makers in the banking system of the Republic of Slovenia, and the fact that everything has been politically staffed and decided in the last 20 years since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. Both in the New Ljubljana Bank and in the NKBM. If we went to look at the history of the recruitment of either one or the other or the third state bank or the fourth, we could well see that each time someone from the winning authority has been appointed to the supervisory councils, administrations and even eventually to regulators by some of their candidates who have decided as they have decided. As we see today, decisions have in many cases been wrong. However, I strongly hope that current decision makers or law enforcement agents will properly identify those responsible, as we can say in the entire chain, as well as the state which appointed its representatives to the relevant authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u55	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mag. Andrey Shircelj. After him Mrs Sonja Ramšak and later Mr Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I have to tell my colleague Ambrožić that just a few minutes before him I spoke about the fact that, at the time of recruitment between 2004 and 2008, in these banks, the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank, there was no change of administrations and that, as I mentioned earlier, the other members of the administration, and in particular the Presidents of the administration, were actually appointed. This was Marjan Kramar, a member of the LDS and advisor to the SFRJ Presidency and the head of the cabinet of the President of the RS Government during Dr. Janez Drnovska, which means that the right-wing political option in these two banks was not available. It is similar with the New Credit Bank Maribor. There was also Mr Črt Mesarič, who did not belong to the right political option, from 2002 to 2005. Then it was Matjaž Kovacič, which is true, from 2005 to 2011. So I would like to point out that, if you like, the main staff broom in these state banks had a left-wing policy option. These are the facts we need to talk about, and we cannot always talk about the fact that both political options for bank recruitment are the same. But it is true that then the members of the oversight councils changed, and I also said that, and there are names for that. And if we are talking about the Bank of Slovenia, then it must also be said that Mr Mitja Gaspari, who was not from the right political option, did this function until 2007, as he was, after all, a multiple minister in the Drnovškova government. I would therefore like to point out that there exists from the past, periods before 1990, a network of connections that also affects the staffing and also the way in which individual sites were recruited, if you want, by reliable people or those who belonged to these networks. And these nets were never broken. And that's why we're talking about clientelism, social business, social business, friendship, and so on. I am not saying that 100% in all cases, but mostly in Slovenia. And then, of course, there was this bank hole, because even in important state-owned companies, they were usually, or most of the time, in the last twenty-five years, people from the left policy option. And, of course, it was very easy to give credit here, and in the end, bankers had a full view of the operations of these companies, as they had to give everyone some information, probably even the bankers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague. Allow me first of all to refer to a fellow Member, Meh, who said that he wanted the Slovenian Democratic Party to abolish the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and not to fight corruption and similar acts. I would very much like to remind him of 2007 at the 33rd regular meeting of the National Assembly when, after a vote of confidence, the then Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, announced the fight against corruption or the fight against tycoon-political ties. The statement that the Slovenian Democratic Party says we do not need the Commission to prevent corruption is in the same context as the statement that was published today in Mladina, where the recognised Professor Vlado Miheljak, whom I think you all know comes from the left option, said: "The overthrow of the government of Janez Janša required the alert of the PKK and the uprisings. "And this is the answer why in the Slovenian Democratic Party we believe that we have other institutions that must fight corruption. And also against all those who caused this big bank hole. 11. 12. 2013 President Alenka Bratušek said: "Today is the day we have been waiting for eight months. Today is the day we proved and showed that we know. And today is the day we have proven to you that the only threesome in our country will be a home threesome." She also declared that we had maintained our sovereignty. I would refer the Prime Minister to Mr Masten's blog or to look for Dr Masten's statement, which said that Slovenia had lost its economic sovereignty in 2009. And we know what government was back then and how much the state had borrowed back then. Three billion euros to make no mistake. Indeed, we have received a 4.78 billion-dollar hole, we have received €3 billion for the recapitalisation of the bank troika – NLB, NKBM and Banks, we have received 1.7 billion euros for the transfer of bad claims to a bad bank. We have seen the recapitalisation of two private banks totalling 445 million. So we're saving private banks and tycoons. We have also seen the recapitalisation of EUR 200 million of a bad bank. And dear colleagues, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we feel responsible to the citizens and citizens who have elected us to this Parliament, so today's debates do not seem to be as lame as you want to be. We have been chosen by citizens and citizens and it is right to ask why the state has decided to rescue private banks and why it is so expensive to borrow, but when we know that it could be in a much cheaper way, and not to try to find out under what conditions the ESM could obtain credit. Of course, we also demand a non-committal responsibility, just as most of the discussions of fellow Members of the coalition took place yesterday on the Committee on Finance, but we demand the subjective and individual responsibility of individuals who are responsible for this bank hole. From the left, the right, the upper, the lower, I don't care who it is, but it is necessary to establish responsibility and ensure that these persons are responsible for their actions. And what is the key to saving Slovenia? This is, of course, economic growth and the opportunity to provide citizens and citizens with prosperity for all. However, not by way of raising taxes, not by fighting against the grey economy, but by collective responsibility, but by tackling organised crime networks. That should be the first priority of this government. And what else is one of the key mistakes of all the former governments and coalitions, the opposition and so on? That we didn't do the lustration. All the networks created in Slovenia over the last 20 years have grown in one way or another from the same network, in which former communist and SDV personnel predominated before or, if you like, Udbe. And today the prosecution boasts - and therefore I do not believe that you will solve anything - that the number of complaints has increased by 3% by 1%. And if I go back to the courts, that means we're going to solve 0.30% of these 1% of the charges. And this is what concerns us in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Gradually, Mrs. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I know you're responsible for the correctness of the session and I know you can't verify any quote. However, I know that in the National Assembly we need to take care of the accuracy of the indications when these statements are related to the name and surname of the public known person and we refer to the public publication. What Mrs Ramšak has done is a falsification of the text of Mr Vlad Miheljak. He said it in a completely different context, as she said it, but let us leave this, since quotations are always torn out of the context and often have a different meaning. But Mr Miheljak said as follows: "The rebels needed reports from the KPK in order to carry out their fight, and this coverage of the crowd. If the two interventions did not coincide, the big question is whether anything would have happened at all. Would human anger have any effect? Would politics move at the KPK report? I think the answer to both questions is negative." Since we are discussing things that call for awareness and accountability, I feel that this correction of the wrong quote was urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u61	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. Replica, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u62	Mrs. Potrata, this is exactly the sentence I quoted and I am behind this sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Branisel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u64	Thank you very much. There's a lot of talk about responsibility. In principle, you all turn against Banka Slovenije, against bankers and so on. I think it is right to open another dimension, to look at the National Assembly and also look at Gregorčičeva. And let's ask ourselves who actually created this monster, this bank hole, and this condition that this bank monster was created, and what hostages are we now. We don't have to go far back, let's analyze the mandate 2004-2008. The government of Janez Janša and Finance Minister Andrej Bajuk take over the country in a relatively good public financial situation with stable public finances and with some calming matter. In this mandate, the country's debt increases by sixteen billion, but this sixteen billion-dollar government is transforming this policy into banks. And the banks start rock and roll. Banks start spiraling real estate transactions, tycoon loans, shares, shares and so on. And this spiral flies into the sky. At the same time, despite the warnings of the Bank of Slovenia, this coalition is unable to track and limit the collateral in Lombard loans to 1.5. And in fact, Lombard loans were then a problem and they appear to be a problem at the moment. And one more thing. The first thing this government coalition has done is to release or lower taxes on capital gains, these are profits from the sale of shares, from shares in companies and so on. So you loosened the anchor, you pumped things, and this monster ran away, and you weren't even able to control it anymore. And now we're exactly where we are. If we keep talking about responsibility, let people do what they're paid for. We have here a lot of institutions that have been doing good lately, trust them, do not intimidate people needlessly, and justice will also be achieved in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič, followed by Marija Plevčak and her mag. Majda Potter. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must say that, with what Mr Braniselj has just said, I am ashamed to sit in the National Assembly and listen to such absolute falsehoods and stupidity on the one hundred and fiftyths. The Lord allows himself to criticize the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Government 2004-2008 in such a primitive way. He's extremely primitive. Mr Braniselj, President of your party, Mr Gregor Virant, also sat in this government. As a minister, he sat in this government. And you allow yourself against Virant to speak, to say that he was involved in these pigs, that he was responsible for these pigs. You're the one who said that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u67	Mr. Pojbich, don't be insulting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u68	Dear Vice-President, if this is offensive now, and it is not offensive what Mr Braniselj has said, then I ask you kindly to deploy your powers in such a way that you will listen to one another honestly and do what is right, please. Because what the gentleman has afforded so far has exceeded all the limits of good taste. To put his party president so low, that is indeed a sad truth, and Virant should listen today to hear what kind of leader he has. To go back to the debate on this subject. So, Madam Vice-President, today I have listened to one and the same story from the coalition all the time, how irrelevant this meeting is, how meaningless it is, how wasteful it is, how unquality it is, and so on and so on. I seriously wonder whether in this National Assembly we are sitting Members and Members who are responsible for our people, or are sitting to cover through our coalition and government certain personal interests of individual Lumps, Barabbas and First Class Robbers in this country. Whether that's why we're here or because we have to and we have to care for our people, for our people, for my people, to help them solve those acute and problematic things that are still important for people to survive from month to month. I think our mission is different. And if we were aware of this, no one in this House should and could not allow us to say that this meeting is irrelevant, irrelevant and so on. And one more thing. I must say that I am confused, unhappy when I am sitting in Parliament and I have no financial minister here. Where's the President of the Government? Where is the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia? Is this the responsibility of this government and the coalition to our citizens and citizens? Is this a responsibility when we talk about the most important topic of the Republic of Slovenia? It's far more important than anything else. And then we read in newspapers, which is absolutely true, read to yourselves gentlemen what they wrote in the Journal, that every citizen will pay extra from his pocket €2381 for this bank hole. And you don't have anyone from the government here. You have a head of Parliament and a vice-president here from the Virant list. Since SD, you've only got one representative of the entire parliamentary group here, and so on. And respectable. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Majda Potrat, please, if you'll hold back your comments, because now I'm speaking. When you talk, I'm quiet. And hundreds of times, people, citizens, and citizens have told you that you do not interfere with the work of the National Assembly. Don't laugh because it's the truth. I'm sorry. So when I talk about these bank holes, I have to point out one important thing, among other things. What did the Minister of Social Democrats say about the evening officer? Then you'll see what kind of people we have in such important positions. Listen to what Dr. Krizanic said. If he's a doctor, that's a big question. He said the following, Dr. Franz Križanič, economist, former finance minister: "I would expect stress tests to be carried out now in other countries, but if the way is the same, the banks will be recapitalised." And then, "For Slovenia, the methodology is too sharp and irrational." And the next sentence is, "Three billion were our highways, and we're going to invest that money in the banks now because of the caprice." This is what the Minister of Finance of the Social Democrats said at a time when the Republic of Slovenia was the farthest in debt. And Mr Braniselj, 2008 was the external debt of the Republic of Slovenia I think 22%. This year or early next year, up to 50,75 % of GDP will come. And then you're talking about how the Yanshe government 2004-2008 destroyed Slovenia and caused bank holes. I'll finish up slowly, my dear friends. Only one and the only key thing that seems important to me right now is, for the first time, to save our economy, because it is clear in fact that we have to fix the banking system, and the third most important thing is to shut down the gang, the mob, the robbers, the robbers. And this is the job of everyone here in this country. We know exactly who the authorities are, and we in the National Assembly need to ensure appropriate legislation to enable these authorities to do so. And the transition left has always done everything to prevent this from happening - from the amendment that we tabled as the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, then the People's Party tabled it and so on. And in a short time, you will be discussing another law submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is the Banks Act. And I hope that one day you will gather so much power, energy and responsibility, and you will no longer defend those who have led Slovenia to this point. It is quite a few citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, something of my people, my people, including Poets, Šentilja, Kungute, Styria, Koroška and so on, because they have also destroyed them. We must no longer allow this, and I and the National Assembly will not allow it, and the Slovenian Democratic Party is doing everything in its power to end it and by law allow these people to be brought to justice. And for closure. In the SDS we demand that those applications be opened and those who have signed them be found, those who have received them, who have not returned the money to the banks, and then we will know who is most responsible for this banking situation in our country. And it doesn't matter who's from which party. Absolutely irrelevant. And in the SDS, we're going to defend it and we're going to defend it to the end. Regardless of the client he is from, he must answer with his property, including with the property of his people, by means of whom he has dispersed the property and, of course, by holding back his sentence. This seems only fair and fair to my people who have to pay for it. That's the only thing fair and fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u69	Thank you very much. First, a replica of Mr Branisl, because he signed up before you, and then procedurally, Mrs Majda Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u70	I think the response to my debate was too dramatic. I didn't tell you that the Yanche government created a bank hole. I was just analyzing the measures that led up to this. But I didn't say it was the right thing to do. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u71	Time's up for the Citizen's List. Mag. Maja Potrat, please, you have the floor for procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I know that you are in charge of the session and decide when to warn the debater that he has crossed the boundaries of a decent performance. But I still have to respond to that. Dr. France Križanič was a politician when he was a minister. But he got the academic address for his expertise. Mr Pojbič raised doubts about the credibility of his academic title and I protest this most decisively. However, I would advise Mr Pojbic to decide whether he would count Mr Franz Križanič as a person of such credibility that he would quote it, or whether he would question the credibility of Dr Frances Križanič's professional knowledge. You have proven again, Mr Pojbich, that you are in disharmony with yourself. I suggest you settle down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u73	Thank you very much. In the meantime, I also interrupted Mr Pojbič's debate because he seemed offensive to me at times. Now he's got the word [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I don't put a replica on procedural motions. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u74	Thank you very much. In this National Assembly, there is much talk about the government of Janez Janša and the period 2004-2008 and how that period is the source of all evil. This is talked about from different angles, from different perspectives, about what is wrong and here it is mixed on the basis of the economic concept and who is responsible for what in this country under the very laws adopted by this National Assembly or by us. First, we are talking about gross external debt and even the President of the Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, mag. Alenka Bratušek, talking about gross external debt, how it grew during that period and how it was the period of Mr Janez Janša or his government. First of all, what is a gross external debt? These are all the loans that the population has that the economy has and that the country has. The country in the broadest sense. And in that period, for various reasons, so-called gross external debt actually increased. On the other hand, you can see in the same table that it has increased at the expense of the indebtedness of the economy and at the expense of the indebtedness of the population. Why the economy? Because the economy has invested heavily, because the economy has invested both in Slovenia and in other countries, especially in the Balkans. Today, we can say that it is unfortunate, especially in the Balkans, because most or a lot of those investments have proved to be very poor and inefficient or economically ineligible. On the other hand, the population also spent more. And what does the government have to do with the debt of the economy and the population? What can the Prime Minister do to ensure that a citizen or citizen in Slovenia is not in debt or that an undertaking is not in debt if both of them receive bank loans? In the government of John Janša no one has done anything because it is the free will of men. If someone did it in another government, of course, it's another matter, but that means another economic system, an economic system of coercion, where someone can't take something. We had such an economic system before 1990. At that time, what can and cannot be taken and what credit can be taken and how many can be driven by a car and which days can be driven by a car if it has a couple or not, and similar things. This is not a free market economy. On the other hand, I said that it is included in this gross external debt also in the country's debt, which has decreased by one billion over this period. The government is responsible for the debt of the State. For the country's debt in a broader sense. This fell by one billion during this period. And from that then to take the blame, to say that this is now due to this, sorry, that's, I'll just say, unprofessional. Unprofessional and ignorance of macroeconomic indicators and how the economy is actually going. And given that we are adopting laws on this, I think we need to speak in this context. Finally, in that rejection, when we talk about 2007 and 2008, public finances were levelled. I think it was the difference of thirty million, even in plus in 2007 and something minus in 2008. In short, it was a fiscal rule. For all we've created, we've spent so much. And, of course, there is also, in fact, the thesis, presented most often by the Social Democrats and also by the distinguished Mr former Minister Dr. Križanič, that if such tax legislation as it was before 2006, this would be much more money in the budget. If there was still a tax on paid wages, which was unique in Slovenia at the time, I do not know if Slovenia would be so competitive. No, it would not be, it would be less competitive, it would produce less, it would export less, and since it would export less, it would not be such an economic growth. As it is more taxed today, it is not so competitive and falls on all scales. As a result, there are different opinions on that economic time between 2004 and 2008. And there's not just one opinion. And we can't just put a rate in some model and calculate how much the state would have for that. Since it would no longer have been less consumption, less added value, everything would have gone down, as it is now, even though we have higher taxes. And even today's revenues are falling, revenues are falling, regardless of the fact that taxes are increasing. Another issue that needs to be said in this context is that the Bank of Slovenia, which controls the monetary sphere and the business banks, can or does not recommend to banks and implements measures on how to operate. Today we all know the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, and that's probably it. And at that time, economic growth was high. During that period, many loans were taken mainly by the population and the economy. Therefore, these topics and economic categories need to be known and discussed in this way, because otherwise there is the very "faithful" deception. I'm not saying that someone is deliberately deceiving, but maybe, but then it just comes to the fact that the information is not accurate, five times or ten times something happens again and it's as if it's true. I'm afraid that's not the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u76	Thank you. It would be good if we discussed the capital deficit of the banks examined and not the bank hole. Then it would not be possible to extend the deficit to increasing amounts and to increasing debt. In the same way as you do not say that the credit obtained from the ESM mechanism should also be repaid. Now you are creating with your discussions the impression that it would be completely free and gifted. It's a big manipulation! People can be bitter [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u78	Thank you very much. As for the ESM, again, I already talked about this on the committee yesterday, so there's no problem. We pay in the ESM and we are members of this association, this organisation, and Slovenia as a country pays, I think a little over 300 million or 700 million. 300 million. We pay and we're members. The ESM mechanism means that we will receive some help from Europe. Now Mrs. Potrata is leaving the hall, regardless of whether she asked this question, I may tell you about her another time. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, all right. We are asking what conditions Slovenia would have achieved if it had committed itself to the ESM. Yesterday, the Secretary of State said we didn't know that. Then it was said by Möderndorfer that we know this and that there would be very bad conditions because there were some informal conversations and so on. But we haven't come to the end yet. The fact is that the debt we carried out on the closed market is 4.85% of the interest rate, which is extremely high. Bocwana has 4.90, data is three weeks old and is valid for a three-year bond. This means, of course, that we will pay for these 1.5 billion about 210 million interest, just interest. Every year, 70 million interest, third year we're going to pay back the capital, a billion and a half, and that 70 million interest. And the question is, if it is not better for the lower interest rates to be obtained under the ESM. The ESM aid is something special, and it is not such aid that this will be a loan and so on, but that normally ESM bonds in the bank, let's say that it would put its bonds in the bank, the bank would also be entitled to these interest payments that the ESM makes on this bond and, on the other hand, it would be an agreement between the bank and the State or the bank could issue to the State of the shares, and the State of Slovenia would pay this debt to the ESM at probably higher interest rates than the bank of the ESM. For how long, I don't know. However, the fact is that in the negotiations, countries achieve and could achieve that the interest rate of 2.5 to 3 percentage points — not a percentage, but a percentage point — would be lower than the interest rate of 10 annual bonds. In other words, if the interest rate for 10 annual bonds is 5 years, the interest rate would be 2,5 % or 2 % of the ESM. It could be lower. Depends on how much you negotiate. Of course, there is always negotiation. Also with this international investor were the negotiations for 4.85, probably he wanted 6 or 5.5. But me and this government didn't even figure out what interest they could get for it and what Slovenia should do. Or we may even know or know what the terms and conditions of Slovenia should be in order to obtain this loan. But we don't know. And it's wrong not to know. And we'll be in charge of the first person to come to County or Gregorčičev and take high interest. This is wrong in this case. And that's why it's too high an assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! Former fellow Member Moze wrote in Evening: "I will take my money elsewhere." 100 000 Slovenian citizens and citizens are likely to take their money elsewhere. Out of the New Credit Bank of Maribor. My colleague Moze says, "This is a common place! And shit. It's the end of people. This could be the beginning of her end." That's not how you deal with people. So it's like this on one side. In other banks, the Factor Bank and Probanks, for those 160 people who have more than 100,000 euros in contributions, will also have to cover these people, including my colleague Moze will cover this with the seven thousand euros he made when he bought 260 shares of 27 euros. And, of course, there are many others. Where is now the responsibility of Alenka Bratusek, members of the KBM Supervisory Board? Danil Toplek of the Talum? Where is Guzei's responsibility? Where's Kovacic's responsibility? Jašovica, who was sometimes the vice-governor of Banka Slovenije and was responsible for controlling the granting of bad loans? Where is Kovacic responsible for the purchase of some land in Croatia? Where is the criminal and police responsibility here? Where are the investors from the Cayman Islands who were buying those shares at the time? That's when they even grew to 43 euros and then, of course, down. Of course I'm wondering, where is the responsibility of the former government, former President Pahor? A fellow Member, the current president of the National Assembly, spoke a year ago about treason, the robbery of the century and so on. It's true, Mr. Webber, it's been a robbery for centuries. This is a robbery of centuries of Slovenian citizens and citizens, mainly those who have lost their jobs today. They're the ones from Styria, the biggest part, some of the others. And, of course, the responsibility and robbery of the century was also the Post of Slovenia, ELES, the Energy Gen and so on, when there was so much drunkenness around AUKN and then Dr. Franz Križanič, the Finance Minister. So, AUKN was "self-involved", here's the policy of "nothing happened to be there." Well, don't be silly. They ordered business directors to invest their money in the New Credit Bank. And what is it today? They're relaxed today. You know, that's why we asked the President of the Government in the Slovenian People's Party a question, we're going to ask him until we're in here and of course these things are cleared up. And today, criminals should handcuff such large fish, not those for ten, twenty, thirty thousand euros. And those in authority will have to make public all those who have received so-called loans that have not been secured and all those in which claims will be transferred to a bad bank. I fully agree with my fellow Member, Branet Golubovic, who said: "Let me only remember two more stories when politics together with domestic capitalists without money has allowed foreign investors for their own narrow interests." That's right, Bran, you're right. Your own narrow interests have happened. Zoran Jankovic twisted our banks, a confidential report by Banka Slovenije on the hole in the banking system. At the Energy Plan of 80 million, at Grep of 40 million, at Gradis Group G of eighteen million, at its Electric Eight Million, more than 200 million euros helped to obtain unsecured loans. Where are you, Rudy Mogue? This one's guilty too, because you're worth 0.0 euros today, but I don't have a headache for you. But I have a headache for 100,000 people who are also without jobs, without pensions, in short, on the brink of survival. And that's how they helped do it. However, I do not agree with my colleague Branet Golubovic when he said that Positive Slovenia is in from now on. No, Positive Slovenia has been since Zoran Jankovic. That's what I'm gonna say. The product of five times a thousand is five thousand. Positive Slovenia had few or no members. But Zoran Jankovic had an awfully high score, plus. And with that high plus weight, he's got eighty MPs. Today, of course, Zoran Jankovic has an incredibly high weight, but with a minus, so the weight is high, but with an omen minus. And then the product is minus, because five times a thousand minus is equal to minus five thousand. So that's them. That is why Mrs Alenka Bratušek, the government of Alenka Bratušek and her coalition are closing information on disputed loans, on transferred claims and so on. It is true that as a result of this, several billion taxpayers will go to banks, some have gone to the Cayman Islands, and some of these billions will now come back. Do you know what they'd be called? Well-informed investors are coming, they're going to be laundering money. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will insist on this information.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, you have the floor. He should be followed by Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go, Mr. Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is interesting to listen to this debate, although we will not finally reach any conclusions, because I think that this meeting is intended for itself or I see it more in the context of the laundering of the blame for some past events and the washing of the role that individual, in particular, established parties in this Parliament in the past, including the so-called bank hole. Although I am very pleased that former firefighters are today reporting under firefighters and would like to participate in the fires, it would have been even better if they had set up a fire department years ago without these phenomena. [[advertising from the hall]] You don't have to fuck around. The facts speak for themselves. We know exactly how the effective sphere of power has been distributed in Slovenia over the past ten years. About half the time there were right parties on the government, half the time on the left. So this guilt in terms of the timetable is quite divided. The other thing is, of course, and this is the only thing I agree with the proponents that certain inherited investments must be held accountable or found subjectively guilty. But I ask you, can such prepared material that they have prepared, such poorly prepared material that tries to demonize, Diabolize only one side, at all, serve as a quality debate in this National Assembly. I don't think so. I think if we're talking about this, we should say some other things. Don't worry so much about the past, because we won't change anything back. We have set up an investigative commission, which we give all our support to, to continue and work on this project to identify these things, to carry out its work and to present it to this National Assembly. Let us let the police, the prosecution and the judiciary play their part and closely monitor how they do this. I think that's our job. However, it is not our job to turn Parliament into a tribunal. That we here in Parliament will identify individual guilt, individual names or open credit maps and go smart and impute guilt, of course, always to another political sex. In short, one of us wants to be innocent and the other is guilty of everything. Such discussions, which do not actually lead anywhere, will not solve these things. I personally believe what the government has announced that it will not only fight for this scenario to never happen again, but that even in cases where bad credits have been involved, the circumstances have been identified, the perpetrators have been identified and those who have contributed to it have been sanctioned. We can't get past the numbers at that. 90% of all so-called contaminated credits that present a problem in this country today were given in the period 2005-2008. We cannot avoid that the Bank of Slovenia, which I will not claim to have played an important role in, if I say so, non-controlling these investments, proposed the Banking Act or proposed that supervisors of the supervisory boards are also licensed. This proposal has not been adopted. Nor has the proposal been adopted to change the way credit insurance is provided in the Banking Act and could already apply to credits from 1 January 2007, but was transferred for unexplained reasons one year later. And look at the fraction, the largest of these loans, about 70%, was given in 2007. In 2007, most of these loans were given, which are today the problem of this bank hole. Why was the then proposal of the late Minister of Finance, Andre Bajuk, not adopted to prohibit the provision of credit in the Banking Act by way of buying out the shares of the companies being bought? This law did not enter into force until 2008. So, one year was allowed, either willingly or unwittingly, to give the green light that everyone who only had the opportunity would receive so-called management loans and take over the companies. They did not just take over their companies, many credits were also given to take over other competing companies. The so-called ownership consolidation took place during these political years. These are the facts. These are numbers, and no one can escape this responsibility. However, politics has put these legislative frameworks in place to make this possible. Therefore, we cannot or cannot escape this responsibility of those who were then in politics. And Mr Pukšič can speak not yet know how much, but Positive Slovenia in this story was not there at the time. And I'm not going to stand up for one, two or three lawyers. She wasn't there. Next thing you know, I'd like to point out. The problem of today's session is that we have had some recommendations that do not even stand for professional, not legal or other substantive opinions. The Committee on Finance could not accept these recommendations, and the Legal Service has made it clear that this is more or less a desire for so-called omises in a cafeteria, not a serious parliamentary basis on which we could discuss today. However, we could not accept such recommendations, except perhaps the 7th point, which would be conditional, if I said so, legally acceptable. All other recommendations are more or less unthinkable, including a nomotechnical error, and not least, the worst of all, these recommendations deny the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. Excuse me, I would expect from such a serious party as the SDS that for the second time prepare a slightly more serious material, not by number of pages and by torn magnetograms, but by more serious conclusions. That he's also trying to actually objectify these things and that he's trying to show them the way they've been done, but not just to blame someone who doesn't fit us right now and just stigmatize him. I think that the solution to this policy is, above all, in what I have said is that it is no longer happening in the future. And here I believe the government will do everything to ensure that these things will no longer be repeated, that those who have helped do so will be punished, and we ourselves will, instead of dealing with each other's accusations, rather than taking care of each other's work, be able to take care of this framework so that all the authorities who are meant to do so will be able to do their job. But I told everything about the ESM yesterday, and all I'm asking is not to manipulate the public. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Shircelj, please, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. It is likely in this National Assembly that the repetition of mother wisdom is due to the fact that some things need to be repeated more than once. Also on the period 2005-2008 and what actually happened at the time. Among other things, the Government has adopted specific legislation, special legislation that has actually prevented the parking of shares and which has considerably complicated the acquisitions themselves on the basis of such works. In addition, it has amended the Company Act, also in order to tighten certain acquisitions and in particular with regard to liability. The government of Alenka Bratušek is not responsible for the loans granted to the economy and the population during this period. And the government of Janez Janša is not responsible for the loans given to the population and the economy. Neither Alenka Bratušek nor Janez Janša shall in any way sign and grant credit contracts to the population or the economy. It should therefore be borne in mind that, as I have said before, the state debt has decreased by one billion. On the other hand, the bidding of supervisors was mentioned. If we look at the Bank of Slovenia Act today, then we can find that since there has been European regulation in the banking field, the Bank of Slovenia has been auctioning these supervisors and administrations in some way. It was also about administration. Why? Because someone can become a member of the administration if he applies to Banka Slovenije, if the Bank of Slovenia talks with him, if he meets the conditions laid down by the law, from education to experience in the workplace, conducts an interview with the competent, one of the members of the Council, and then gets permission to be a member of the board. It's been going on forever. This has been the case since the Bank of Slovenia was actually created. If you'd like another license now and so on. And Banka Slovenije is the one who can also take away the status of a member of the administration. And she took very few of them away, and she gave a lot of them to look at a bank hole. And Banka Slovenije also did this in the period 2007 which we heard about yesterday, good or bad. But the excuse is not to make the matter even more liberal if the governor can decide whether or not to be a member of the board all the time. As a result, this is some kind of diversion; licensing is only another way. Another thing I'd like to mention. Look, a well-respected coalition would have adopted a decision yesterday on the Committee on Finance, one decision that would have exacerbated responsibility. Yesterday, we'd have written three sentences or two if you didn't like our conclusions. Well, you didn't. And we rightly wonder why you didn't and who you're protecting. Who are you protecting in this country that you do not want the National Assembly to play its part in this? Without being a judge, without being a prosecutor, he did his part and demanded responsibility. He demanded the responsibility of everyone here for all periods. It is likely that today, according to procedures, it is a bit difficult to tell why you did not accept them. We'd take two items. If it were to stress the greater responsibility of all those involved in the banking sphere, then the Slovenian Democratic Party would support such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek said that it is for the purpose of establishing responsibility and that it is for those responsible for the bank hole to be made public, both on the bank’s side and on the boards of banks and supervisory boards, as well as on the side of those who took credit, to realize that they will never be returned. Yesterday in Tarča, virtually all representatives of political parties spoke of the need to provide information, to reveal who is responsible for the bank hole, to work for it and so forth. I don't know if you've been watching this or not, but just like the last time, all of our conclusions we proposed were rejected the last time we discussed Probank and Factor Bank. However, we have proposed precisely such conclusions, on which all the leaders of political parties so agreed yesterday and have choked themselves that it would be necessary to disclose the data, to tell who is to blame for the bank's hole. Let me tell you what our conclusions were, what some of your problems are. "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia checks and notes on the findings of the National Assembly, to what extent is a billion-dollar bank hole due to the way in which the former social property was privatised, which was mostly carried out by elites, collected around the left political parties or Forum 21." Here I have information on how many credits some gentlemen have received, and only from NLB, during the time of Mr Kramar: Bavčar, LDS, Pavček, LDS, Šrot, SD, Kordez, LDS, Chernigoj, LDS, Slavinec, LDS, Lipping, LDS, Petan, LDS, Gantar, LDS, Škoberne, SD, Valant, LDS, Rigelnik, SD, Mermal, LDS, Fink and so on, in short, LDS and SD can be found on this list. Most or many of these are also founding members of Forum 21, they were even managers of the year. Today, some are in prison, and this also tells us how successful and the best Slovenians were, of course, who also regularly ranked on the charts of the richest Slovenians. All these loans were granted in the time of Mr Kramar. Comrade Chekhovin has gone out now. I would also suggest to our criminals a visit to Mr Kramar, where we would quickly find that he is responsible for a lot of bad credit. Let me say again that he was a member of the LDS, because LDS is no longer a member, but there are people in other parties now, many also in Positive Slovenia. Let the criminals come and see what Mr Kramar has been doing, and they will find very quickly that he has not earned those millions of euros prizes, and he has not earned all that we are monitoring today, interest and so on. In fact, he should return that million with interest and something else that made him rich. And when Mr Kramar was chairman of the NLB administration, loans were granted. The government has nothing to do with this, and you know it. You know very well that not Pahor, not Janša, not Bratuškova, do not lend loans, but the supervisory councils when it comes to a certain amount, or credit boards and administrations in banks. So the responsibility is very clear if you want to see it. And our second proposal concludes. "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined and noted the findings of the National Assembly, to what extent, following the independence of the Republic of Slovenia in the banking system, both on the side of regulators and on the side of business banks, political business and family ties have been maintained since before the independence of the Republic of Slovenia." The sparrows are already chirping that we have, because we have not done lustration, in this country full of corruption. But corruption is that there are some elites who are connected, political, business, and most often family. That is exactly what we are talking about in this decision that you rejected yesterday. Third decision. "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Bank of Slovenia to reveal those responsible, both those who have approved bad loans and those who have received them have not returned them." What is wrong with this conclusion? Fourth conclusion. "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall report to the National Assembly on the prohibition of the possession of assets to all those responsible for the bank hole, as well as to those who have not returned more million amounts of credit." Here you are selling us a story or we have already passed such a law that we will tax more incomes that do not correspond to the actual income of an individual, we have increased the tax on the resources that someone has, but do not derive from his property status, given what he deserves. Like we're gonna do something, here, if we can, you don't want to do it. If we had taken such a decision, we could have been familiar with it and the government would have reported it to us. Let us be explained by the judges who receive an application for someone who is being treated, why they do not take the worst measure, thus prohibiting the possession of property until it is determined how this richest Slovenian has come to this property. What is the problem with reporting this to us? To find out that Mr. Zidar has been banned from having access to his property for three months, and then I don't know what happened to the judge that he cancelled it. Mr. Zidar was convicted in Germany, he sat well in prison, if not, he would have paid a million. Why is it impossible to do this to us? Next decision. "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure that police, prosecutors and courts consider the prosecution and prosecution of banking crime as a top priority and that the results of this prosecution are reported every three months by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly." What's the problem here? By the way, let those who boast about police action and that something is finally happening in the banks, I recall that former Prime Minister Janez Janša sent a report to the National Investigation Office, and then a group was set up, of which you are all now talking and praising it, which began to investigate fraud in banking. It's the sixth conclusion. "The Bank of Slovenia shall provide the parliamentary commission of inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system with all the necessary information to enable it to carry out its task." What is the problem with this conclusion? That he has to pass on the data. I can tell you that the anti-corruption commission does not wish to provide information on the commission led by Mr Pogačnik. When I led the investigative committee against Mr Jankovic, we received everything from the KPK and immediately, and there were also things that were not bank secrecy, but were of an internal nature or not accessible to everyone. Why is the KPK hiding something in this case? Why can't the commission that deals with this get it? And the last, the seventh conclusion. "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall take all necessary measures to enable the responsibility of all those responsible for the bank hole to be exercised. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted measures to present to the National Assembly, in subsequent procedures, as much tax money as possible for the rehabilitation of banks." What's the problem here? If the government has a serious intention to do anything, to find the culprits, we should be happy to support these conclusions that we have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell is next to have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u88	Nice greetings to all present. Obviously, neither Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek nor Minister of Finance Uroš Čufer sees this topic as important to them, as they did not think the Law on real estate tax was important, in short, all of what is essentially the burden of Slovenian citizens and citizens, and apparently this topic, which speaks of a bank hole, does not seem important to most of this National Assembly at the coalition party. Today we are discussing that citizens will pay for the drink of bank-capital tycoons, and most of them will continue to sunbathe happily on their yachts. On average, each household will put over 6,000 euros in their wallets. At the same time, 100,000 small shareholders of Slovenian banks were flattered. 100,000 small shareholders of Slovenian banks. Apparently, some politicians are already toasting the successful rehabilitation that has brought the full burden on the people by the government of Alenka Bratušek. None of these bank robbers had frozen assets, nor did any of the bankers who approved these loans, those at the highest summit, sit behind bars. No investigations shall be carried out with them either. Workers who have not only lost their money but also lost their jobs for the next 20 years will pay off their loans. Their loans. These tycoon loans amount to some 100 million euros. Each household of over 6,000 euros. And here's a question for Mrs. Alenka Bratusek who's not here. How will – let's say – I come from the beer end – to the employee of Javor, who just before the bankruptcy due to these works, explain first why he lost his job, and why will he have to pay off the loan to the former owner who got the 4 million euro loan from the Factor Bank that he never returned? How can this be explained? And until today, nothing happened to him. He doesn't have any frozen property, he doesn't have an investigation, he doesn't have anything. And even those who granted him this loan did not respond and obviously will not, because otherwise today this hall would be full, the whole government would sit on that side and listen here to Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek, who would say in twenty points what will happen, is already, and will do so so as not to happen. How will this government explain that those who have built the Stožice will still have to pay over 100 million euros of credit, which Grep will never return and for which the frozen President of Positive Slovenia – who is still the president of this party until you have a congress – have said that he himself has called to the bank and intervened in these loans. He said that himself about a year and a half ago in the Views. Nothing happened to any of them in this chain. And not one of these in this chain has a hundred million dollars frozen the assets and not taken in and not sat down and apparently never will he be in prison. All of this will be paid by the people. All of this will be paid by the people. But the evidence for this is an empty hall on the side where the government should sit, and on the other side where you sit the decision-makers. Something similar happened 20 years ago when Slovenian banks were first rehabilitated, but at the time the number was significantly lower. Significantly lower, at least 8 times lower than today. But it's obviously the intention to do it again, and it's going to happen again in a few years when you fix this bank hole that we're facing today. In addition, due to this expensive loan of money, also due to the debt chosen at the least appropriate time — just before the adoption of the State budget — the nation will pay at least twice as much interest as it would have been necessary. The burden would be lower even if the then Pahor's government took into account what the Slovenian Democratic Party advised in 2009. Not because the Slovenian Democratic Party did so, but because it was necessary to do so at the time. We are in the Slovenian Democratic Party within the framework of the proposals we developed at the beginning of 2009 – 10. 2. 2009 – Regarding banks, they proposed to the Government, the National Assembly and Banka Slovenije that the Bank of Slovenia assess the health of the Slovenian financial system and report on these findings to the Government and the National Assembly. The report should also contain a list of all risk loans, in particular those for the managers' purchase of companies, and of the poor investments of Slovenian banks and insurance companies. We have also proposed that, on the basis of this assessment of the Bank of Slovenia, the Government should decide, at that time, whether it is necessary to set up a special bank or an agency that would take over bad loans and investments. In doing so, banks would withdraw these loans and investments from their balance sheets, thereby increasing their stability and improving transparency. Mr Janša, President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, stressed at that time that this would not relieve the responsibilities involved in these loans, but would help to ease the credit crunch. All of this was proposed on 10 February 2009, i.e. more than four years ago. And, of course, the problems would be smaller if not later in 2012, the current prime minister, then opposition Member of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, blocked the efforts of the Janša government, concerning the establishment of a bad bank and a better and more cost-effective state-owned operation in the framework of the Slovenian State Holding. The purpose of today's meeting was to unify the policy in the National Assembly and to bring the Government before the National Assembly with concrete measures, both on the side of the exercise of responsibility, the freezing of property, the public publication of the list of all those who granted the contested credits and those who did not return them, as well as measures which would allow this burden to be ultimately a burden for citizens, for taxpayers, for the Slovenian people as low as possible. It's not like that. This is not the case, and it is, of course, more than obvious that it is important for Alice Bratusek and her government that this bank hole is covered, that people will cover it, and that the highest heads responsible for it are assured that nothing will happen to them in the future. Your Honor, today is more than ever a necessary lustration. A thorough lustration, a thorough cleansing is needed, the law will have to be dealt with in this regard, and if this does not happen, the nation will then pay for the wrong questions in the coming years. We already see one of these on the horizon. One of the ministers of this government has already said that the next hole that will have to be covered, apparently also through the shoulders of taxpayers, is a hole in the health treasury.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to remind you of the double criteria of the President of the National Assembly. When the coalition convened an extraordinary meeting a few days ago on the topic of the banking system, both the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia spoke here. When we requested the convening of an extraordinary meeting on a similar subject and also proposed that the Governor or anyone else from the Bank of Slovenia be invited to attend this meeting, the President of the National Assembly did not do so at the meeting. So he arbitrarily decided that the coalition could invite anyone in this National Assembly to explain, including the bank. And that's what the governor did. When we demanded it, he looked down on it. I think there are too many of these double criteria in this mandate. Another major problem is that the government has announced half an hour and has not spent a minute until the end of the debate. I believe that the salary and hourly position of the Secretary of State is too high to sit here and follow with a smile the meeting of the National Assembly. Too high. If he has nothing else to do but sit down, he better not even come to the National Assembly. We expected any of our fellow Members' statements to be commented on. No one's confirmed it, no one's denying it. In particular, no one has denied it, which means that the claims made by my colleagues hold. They're holding it to the spot. That the problems in our banking system and in Banka Slovenije are great, certainly is true. I'd like to remind you of two events in the past. The first is that the Bank of Slovenia settled at Lehman Brothers with more than $50 million and that we did not get that money back. And when we asked for explanations, we didn't get them. The former or former Governor Gaspari played a key role in this settlement of Banka Slovenije's investment in the banking system. Why Banka Slovenije never wanted to explain this bank error, we do not know. The second such case, when Banka Slovenije was occupied, is Greece. More than 200 million euros were stuck there at the start of the Greek financial crisis. When we asked for clarification on the acquisition of Banka Slovenije's investment, the then Governor Dr. Kranjec refused to explain the matter. And now I ask you how these two responsible persons, who are regulators of the banking system and have placed the Bank of Slovenia's surpluses for such investments, should require responsibility from those who supervise them who do similar things. Have you ever asked yourself that? How should the first or second governor request the responsibility of anyone in the New Bank of Credit Maribor, in the New Bank of Ljubljana, in the Bank or any other bank, if he lost 200 million euros in financial transactions, plus 50 million dollars, which is about 235 million euros. So that's more than the property tax collected. And these people, which is understandable, protect each other. They rotate within Banka Slovenije after various functions, rotate between Banka Slovenije and business banks, once as director, once as supervisor, once as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, or run an important department within these institutions and do in fact similar, identical things. I would like to know why the other institutions in this area have found nothing. We have an RS Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, which monitors bank transactions over a certain amount, and it is not clear from their reports whether they have found anything suspicious about a bank transaction. So why do we have this supervisory institution in the Slovenian legal order? She didn't find anything without any of us knowing. Then we have, say, the Tax Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Neither did they detect any accumulation of funds or other matters. We have an I.P.P.S. that monitors business - and nothing. We have the National Investigation Office, which has recently activated somewhat, as is known. The U.S. Attorney General's Office or the D.A. says he can't get to the files. And so on. In short, we have a whole range of institutions where salaries are paid by Members or perhaps even higher and do not do what they are set up to do. It is no wonder, therefore, that all those involved, including the Anti-Corruption Commission, are acting in this way, I will say, the ostrich way - the head is as deep as possible into the sand and things are going on. Too bad, because the coalition has not supported our proposals for conclusions, I think it would be useful, especially to align that verbal part with the actual work so that we don't just brag about how you're doing for some control and transparency, because when it comes to action, it doesn't happen. And there's another problem. Clearly, this banking crime is being systematically protected. The possible penalties, if imposed, are also relatively minor in this banking work in relation to the gravity of the offences or offences committed. The penalties are lower than for a small wine maker or for a small forest owner. There, an inspector may, by one measure, give him a penalty equal to the value of an annual crop. In the banking work, no one has been given a penalty equal to the value of the money stolen or mistrusted or in any way unlawfully paid. Not one more. And as long as we have an organized system like this, there's probably nothing to expect until then, and we're just going to keep pushing our heads into the sand.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u91	Thank you very much. As the next panellist, I invite Mrs Romano Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. We are approaching the conclusion of today's meeting, which many colleagues thought was unnecessary. Obviously, because right now, when we talk about one of the biggest Slovenian problems that will fall on the shoulders of all taxpayers who will pay thousands of euros from their family budgets for the Taiwanese and other non-profits that have taken place in our banking system, there is virtually no one here. The Secretary of State is sitting, and I don't think he has anything to do with it. In doing so, there is someone who should sit next to him and he is not, this is the Minister of Finance who is more responsible, and this is where the Prime Minister should sit, because it is such an important topic that everyone should be present. They do, however, when it is necessary to defend a minister's interpretation. It's probably more important than that. We no longer believe, my fellow Members, not in your words or in the words of the government, who says, "We will do everything in our power to discover all the irregularities that have occurred in the past." And once again he promises, "We'll do everything we can to make sure that something like this doesn't happen again." Many times we have received confirmation that your words are not worth much. You talk one thing and you do the other, and by proof that it is true, you don't have to go far back. Like a couple of days, like a week. When we heard a lot about this speaker here, that the questions that we have raised as opposition from the three opposition parties to the government during the debate are completely inappropriate, that they do not need further discussion, because we will discuss this issue in a long and broad debate at an extraordinary session that has been called upon on our initiative and we will get all the answers to all the questions there. How many answers did we get today? We didn't get any answers. I have to admit, we didn't even expect them. However, Mr Möderndorfer, a respected colleague, in conclusion of his performance, said everything or very much about what the coalition felt about the banking system and about the resolution of the banking system. I'll read from the tape what he said. He said, "That's why again. It is indeed such an extraordinary meeting, the proponents you have proposed to talk about it, this moment is really perverse." That's what he thinks. That talking about the biggest Slovenian problem is a perverse thing. In Parliament, in the highest legislative body. And I think the more than that, the perverse thing is something else, and the viewers, the listeners, will judge for themselves, I won't judge. In addition to this statement, we can look at what has been published in the newspaper articles, for example: "Superintendent in Probank: We have been working professionally. I don't know why we should repay credit." The Bank, which is in the liquidation process supported by the State with millions of euros, whose loss amounted to EUR 20 million in 2011 and over EUR 50 million in 2012. In this bank, in this same bank, supervisors and administrations paid hundreds of thousands of Euros and they think it's all right. When we suggested that this information should be disclosed, the law or amendment of the law we proposed were rejected. It's just bank secrecy. Is it true? People want answers, people will pay for it, and people have the right to know. And there is something else I would like to add to the end about the success of the resolution of this government's banking system, the government of Alenka Bratušek, because it has repeatedly been stressed how successful it is because it has managed to repay a billion and a half in a closed market. Because she was able to sell to the public the data we were told by others, how huge our bank hole is. What did she really do to rehabilitate the banking system, except to transfer this data forward? Nothing. However, she did something at a time when the government of John Janša was still in power and proposed a law to deal with the problem. And what did she do? With all her strength, she opposed this law. With all your strength. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Now I'm asking the government and the proposer if you'd like to have a word at the end? Here you go, Mr. Mavko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Initially, I thank Mr Tank for reminding us that we are in pre-godly times, during the period of gifting, and for reminding us of the height of my salary and the best possible use of my time in the National Assembly. I would hope to say that I have spent more time in this debate room than you do today, in addition to sitting for more than six hours on the committee yesterday on this same subject, where in my opinion the Government has given quite a broad explanation of a number of issues that have been repeated today, of course for the cameras. But obviously we don't want to hear each other or listen, but we don't understand each other. Let me introductoryly repeat what the minister said last week, as he repeated today, about the rehabilitation of the banking system and the openness of the government in doing so. The words were: "We want to be as transparent as possible, painfully transparent as possible." We're saying that the rehabilitation of the banking system is expensive. Yes, the government has not invested tax money in the Slovenian banks arbitrarily, the government has done so as a last resort. All banks receiving recapitalisation at this stage – according to NLB, NKBM and Abank – have repeatedly sought to obtain a private investor to strengthen their capital requirements in recent years. This has been tried by previous governments, including your government, and this has been tried through the Bank and the NKBM even this year, at the time of carrying out the stress tests, but unfortunately the private solution for the banks was not possible. Therefore, the government entered banks with tax money as a last resort. It does not claim that the Government does not wish to make this transparent. We have very clearly disclosed all the figures related to the necessary bank recapitalisation and have also revealed why we believe that the extent of recapitalisation is needed, including what instruments will be used to do so. But I can repeat the numbers if we want. The government has decided to recapitalise NLB, NKBM and Abank totalling EUR 3 billion 12 million. For the two banks – Factor Bank and Probank – which are in the process of controlling liquidation, it allocated EUR 445 million to maintain minimum solvency at the time of the controlled termination of both banks. In order to recapitalise the Banking Company, EUR 200 million was allocated and the total amount transferred from all three banks — NLB, NKBM and Abank — will amount to EUR 676 million to the Banking Company. All together, we say very transparently, is €5 billion 333 million. Or, in other words, 15% of Slovenia's GDP. This is comparable to the magnitude of the rescue that was carried out in Slovenia in the 1990s. We then spent about 12% of GDP. This time, yes, the number is higher, about 15% of GDP. Yesterday we talked a lot about what the conditions are for the state to enter the banks capital and what will be done to make the cost for taxpayers as low as possible. First time. The cost for taxpayers will also be lower through the adopted amendments to the Banking Act, which imposes that existing shareholders and holders of existing and subordinated instruments in banks contribute to the cost of the rehabilitation of these banks. Both shareholders and holders of subordinated instruments contributed fully and the taxpayers' obligation was reduced for this amount. In the case of NLB, NKBM and Abank, this totals around EUR 500 million. If this law were not adopted, not only would the cost for the country, for taxpayers, be around EUR 500 million higher, but it would be very likely that there would be very serious difficulties in granting State aid by the European Commission. Mr Vizjak previously argued our alleged limited sovereignty by asking Brussels to allow us to recapitalise banks with our own money. It is true that we need the European Commission's permission because this is a state aid measure which, according to the rules we have adopted together, applies to all in the EU. Any country that wanted to rehabilitate its banks had to obtain a positive opinion from the European Commission in advance. Now there is something else about the conditions to go forward, how to reduce the final cost for taxpayers and how to take appropriate measures so that something like this will never happen again. First time. They have drawn parallels with the previous rehabilitation of banks, and even this time certain parallels can be drawn. After the recovery in the 1990s, several attempts were made to privatise banks. The NLB was even partially privatized. At that time, the NLB partially privatised the country to some EUR 500 million. 500 million is about one third of this amount, which we committed to the same NLB in the form of State aid before yesterday. And it is clear that the State, the Government, certainly sees privatisation, the withdrawal of the state from the ownership of banks, as one of the measures that will reimburse at least part of the cost to taxpayers back. Inflows from privatisation will therefore reduce the public debt generated by State aid to banks. The State has announced that NKBM will be the first of the banks to go into the privatisation process without delay, and the National Assembly has already reached its conclusion. And for NKBM, the State does not wish to impose any restrictions in terms of a control rate of 50 %, 25 % because the decision of the National Assembly is clear. The bank is being privatized as a whole. Why was the commitment made in the case of NLB made at 25 plus one percent? This is the only commitment that the Government has made, in our view, since it was the only one to have adopted a decision in the National Assembly on 15 June last year that NLB could in principle privatise up to 25% plus one share. This was the decision that was adopted in this mandate of the National Assembly, and for this decision we have assessed that it is the only one that this Government could give at that time. If we set a different amount in the State Property Management Strategy or the possibility of NLB being sold in full, of course, the measures taken do not prevent this. There was also something about the country's debt policy, the debt that was made through private plasma a few weeks ago, and the government's intentions for debt in the future. The commitment made a few weeks ago is not specific in terms of the borrowing of countries on international markets. This is a so-called private placenta, which is regularly used by all countries in the case of interested investors and in the case of appropriate market conditions. In the past, several Slovenian governments have spoken to various potential investors for these types of sovereign debt financing mechanisms, although they have never been implemented, but this is one of the standard measures for the refinancing of the country, which is regularly present in international markets. In our view, in the future, the government will be able to more effectively or more adequately commit to capital markets for the purposes of debt refinancing and deficit financing, including through successful recapitalisation of banks, due to successfully completed burden tests and also due to the already implemented debt at the end of 2013. What brings me to such a statement - the situation on the market. A few weeks ago, our bonds were at 6.5%, today they fell by more than one hundred and fifty basis points, i.e. by more than a percentage point and a half, which means we are below five percent. We believe that by means of a credible progressive policy, this debt price can be further reduced. Indeed, they argue that the country will spend almost a billion euros in public debt servicing next year. That's right. This is a very simple picture from the 2014 budget adopted. However, I cannot agree with the claim that this billion is due to the last commitment. This billion is due to all the commitments that have been made so far. Debt has been growing steadily since 2008. It is growing by looking at the average of the last five years, by about eight percentage points of GDP per year. Approximately. In every government so far. In every government since 2008. And it is true that interest on servicing this debt has risen to about a billion euros, and only by continuing the gradual fiscal consolidation and the use of privatisations to reduce debt will we be able to reduce these costs even further. I'm going to stop at this place, I think there's been a lot of talk in the debate, there's been a lot of repetition since yesterday. Once again, the government's commitment is to disclose all those who have contributed subjectively to the emergence of the gap in the banking sector through the relevant law enforcement authorities and that these will receive the time limits of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u95	Thank you, too. I'm giving the applicant a chance to speak. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to warn you that I have a procedural proposal not to be embarrassed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u97	Procedural overcrowding. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u98	Mr President, I would expect a civil servant to come to the National Assembly to separate between a meeting of the working body and a meeting of the National Assembly. This is distasteful because the Secretary of State has allowed himself to speak to the Slovenian public yesterday. Yesterday this matter was dealt with within the working body and today it is a plenary meeting of the National Assembly. It's not the same thing. And also other Members of the National Assembly, who are not members of the working body, have the right to discuss this subject, and the Government is obliged to answer that. I have rightly pointed out that the hourly position of a government representative who does not speak for six hours is too high. Too high to be actively involved in the debate and to answer Members' questions when necessary. And teaching me or any of the Members in such a way that a state official comes to the National Assembly is unworthy. I have the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and all the other things that are here, to ask the civil servant everything relating to the agenda item and also to draw attention to the problems. That's what I did. But there's probably no answer to that. None of it's right. The Secretary of State also made a statement that he did not hold. He said only the cumulative cost needed to rehabilitate the banking system, but did not say anything about those costs that caused this necessary recovery of the banking system. We are only talking about the consequences, but not a word about the reasons in the New Ljubljana Bank, the New Maribor Credit Bank, the Bank and the people who caused it. This is what we expect of you if you do your job properly. Just coming to the National Assembly with some cumulation, covering all mistakes and illegality is unworthy. And then make sure you told me everything. You didn't say anything. Nothing at all. Everything you should say is hidden. And unfortunately, this is also a poor feature for further actions in the banking system, and I suggest, Mr. President of the National Assembly, that you ensure that civil servants, ministers and others in this Chamber behave with dignity and do not teach us who probably know how to do so, how to behave and how to ask [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] They didn't say anything or yesterday or today. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u99	Thank you. I must admit that I was also in the Chamber at that very moment, and I have observed this dialogue, so at this point I can say that I am joining your warning, because I expect the Government's attitude towards the National Assembly and Members to be really at the professional level, especially in the sense that they answer questions and are all professionally justified. Of course, we also have to respect this when we discuss it ourselves, but at this point I am joining your warning. I give my word to the proposer, Master Andrew Shirtz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President, for, in fact, the final word. The purpose of this meeting is known and clear. It is essentially that taxpayers pay today and in the future and will pay for the tax hole, the tax abyss that has been created in the last 25 years. In my opinion, the 1996 bank recovery was not successful, and this is essentially why things are continuing. It was also not successful because the banks were also being rehabilitated through prices or through unlawful state aid. In short, this meeting was proposed primarily to draw attention to the responsibility for this bank hole. The responsibility of those who caused it – here we think mainly of the members of the bank administrations, especially the state banks. To draw attention to supervision in these banks and to the responsibility of supervisors, where we think mainly of members of the supervisory boards and to draw attention to the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia has been constantly following developments in the monetary market and has also been involved in monetary policy within the European Central Bank since Slovenia joined the euro group. In other words, this means that, in our opinion, the three I have now counted have not done their job. The reasons were mentioned at the outset, mainly by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the reasons for the fact that the entire banking business actually took place domestically, on the basis of existing networks that had been created long ago and have not changed since the change of the social system in 1991 in Slovenia. The work simply continued, the connections even extended to financial areas and in fact the leaders in the previous system created financial connections so that the goal was no longer an ideology, but money. In other words, from ideology to money and financing by privatising former social assets with money from state banks so that these loans that have been taken are simply not paid. And the bill is here today. The bill is paid by taxpayers and, in my opinion, this amount is not completed in the account. It's not over because we don't know what's going on with the rest of the banks, what's going on with the labour market, what's going on with the other savings banks, what's going on with the SID bank, and we don't know how many bad loans there are. But if we take the average that there are as many as those banks that have been reviewed, then the amount goes up to 7 billion at the bank hole. In addition, in these banks there is probably also a remnant of the previous system that actually allows the simple system to still work and that not all control mechanisms are implemented. And since they have not been introduced and since nothing has happened in banks that have received state aid or recapitalisation in the human resources field, the system will continue to operate. And the responsibility didn't come out either. I think this is why this meeting is justified, and even if the coalition has not accepted our recommendations, even if it is not up to the National Assembly to emphasise certain matters and to make its findings on the responsibility for the banking system, we are, after all, representatives of the people here. Representatives and representatives of the electorates and voters, and finally the National Assembly, are responsible and involved in the story of the bank hole because it adopts legislation. And here none of the members of the National Assembly can go beyond responsibility for decades. Therefore, we would expect the coalition, even if it is not satisfied with the proposals made by the opposition, to adopt its proposals, its conclusions, and if these conclusions and proposals were to go in the direction of increasing accountability and transparency in identifying the bank hole, we would be pleased to support such conclusions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The next thing I would like to mention is that, in addition to the information on what a bank hole is now, we can count on the potential hole of all banks that have not yet been reviewed and even though we do not know exactly how big it is, we can assess this because they are in the same monetary system. We have two more banks, which is the question of whether they will receive recapitalisation on the market - Gorenska banka and Celjska banka, if not, this burden will also go to taxpayers. In other words, this figure is not final and probably not final. It won't stop at 27 billion, it'll probably go on. And that's wrong. This is wrong because future generations cannot pay such interest. Instead of investing in development, in the education of people, we will pay interest and this expensive interest, which we agree on in the closed market. In other words, it's untransparent. And we got some answers, Mr Secretary of State, but we didn't get any answers about who we were in debt for a billion and a half at almost 5% interest rate, and we didn't get an answer about why we didn't get in debt under the ESM and what were the conditions and why we didn't actually negotiate or talk – yesterday it was negotiation, talking, talking and so on – and what conditions should be met. So this awaits us in the future, but I hope that no matter what the debate is and no matter what the conclusions are, in fact all the services will work towards finding responsibility. But I'm afraid my hope is empty because some of the subsystems in our country are acting poorly and slowly. Here I am thinking mainly of the judiciary, and here I am thinking mainly of the fact that decisions based on the extent of crime that is evident today in Slovenia are too slow and therefore too slow. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Ineffective. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u101	Thank you, too. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Before I ask you, in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, if anyone else wishes to discuss it, I would remind you that 11 minutes is due to the end of the scheduled time for today's meeting. I would like to remind you that we planned the conclusion of the meeting at 16 and that every minute is precious to us to prepare the hall in time for the festive session. Mr. Tanko, did you want to proceed with the procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u102	Just a warning, Mr. President. Twenty-five minutes left, not eleven. Sit down.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u103	Well, okay, I'm sorry, but in any case, I ask you to take my warning when I ask you whether anyone else would like to discuss it on the basis of Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. Mr. Blackach, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'll try to be even shorter. Today, after what we heard in the National Assembly on this agenda item, it is perfectly clear who will pay for the bank hole instead of the bank tycoons. It will be paid by the Slovenian people, in full. This is demonstrated by both the responses of the Secretary of State and the absence of the President of the Government and the Finance Minister, as well as by the majority of the Members who decide on this point. Once again, after twenty years, the people will pay for the polls of those who robbed not only the bank but also the future of at least one future generation. That's a fact. For these funds, almost for the value of a one-year budget, will not be covered in a relatively short period. We are talking about the amount of more than 6,000 euros per household. It will also be very difficult for this Government to exercise the responsibility of those most responsible for these actions. It is difficult to expect that Alenka Bratušek will now be required as Prime Minister of the Government to exercise responsibility from all representatives of the supervisory boards of these banks if she sat alone during the Pahor government in the control council of New KBM, which in 2010 was heavily writing off bad loans. And she didn't protest it. It will be very difficult for this government to exercise its responsibility and support that these measures have also been adopted and that there would be a priority if there was a minister in this government who, by signing the contract, allowed Grep to receive over 100 million Euros of credit for the Contingents who were not returned and will never be. And if this business is all right, as this minister and the frozen President of Positive Slovenia claim, then let the money return. If this loan was all right, then Grep should return it immediately, not that this amount has landed among the bad claims in the bad bank. That means there was nothing wrong with that loan. And don't fool the public. Because of the misleading and delinquency of such ministers in this Government, the exercise of this responsibility will not and will not help if police actions are carried out in those at the bottom of this chain. If they're not executed at the head, the octopus will still be alive, only what kind of trap will be cut. And we probably didn't discuss here today to chop up the hunters, but to chop our heads off. It will be difficult for this Government to exercise responsibility to anyone, if it includes the former director of the Financial Management Centre of the New Ljubljana Bank, the former supervisor of LHB Frankfurt, who is known to have been the largest exposure of Pajda capitalism, where numerous controversial loans were granted. It's hard. It's impossible. And that also increases our burden. As a result, we had a bond issue at the most unfavourable time, since the burden of interest would be lower if it were issued only a week later. It is great that interest rates or profits are falling, but it is still higher than it was at the beginning of this year’s reign of disgruntled rule. It is said that we need some time to be trusted by the financial markets, but we will also get there, but the price to be paid for the rehabilitation of the banking system will not be lower. Today, we expected the President of the Government responsible before this Parliament to present to the people the financial framework and the operational plan, by which time these banks will be cleared, by when they will be able to service the economy normally, to present how bad claims will be repaid, how much will be recovered from this title, and to present a plan for the sale of rehabilitated banks, so that citizens will know how much the proceeds of this property can be expected to cover the bank hole. We haven't experienced any of this. People have a right to know. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] to whom he pays, to whom he has to pay these imported loans and, of course, has the right to know why the highest political authority in this country prevents the adoption of decisions to talk about the accelerated prosecution of this crime, as well as why it is not possible to publish a public list of those who have granted the contested loans and those who have received them. [[…]] Above all, the people have the right to know why all of this cannot be frozen. So the conclusion of this session is that if we do not arrange these things and perform thorough cleansing — that is, lustration — these stories will be repeated.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-20-SDZ6-Izredna-52.ana.u105	Thank you. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 52nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament, please take with you anything you may still have on your hands to prepare the hall for the festive session. Thank you for your understanding and good-bye.
