ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Romana Tomc, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Janja Attack, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mr Richard Braniselj, Mr Zvonko Černač, Mr Jožef Horvat, Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mr Dragutin Mate. I welcome everyone here. We continue with the adjournment of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the request of the Group of Members and Members that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a real estate tax law following an urgent procedure. On Friday, 25 October 2013, I suspended this agenda item at the request of Jožet Tank, Head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, for consultation in the SDS Group. In doing so, I have overlooked the interpretation of the second paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Rules of Procedure Commission. 9. 2002. In accordance with this explanation, the chairman of the meeting of the assembly shall, on the basis of the request of the Head of the Group of Members, not be able to suspend consultations in the group before the decision is taken if decisions are taken on the request of the Group of Members referred to in Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure. In view of the above, Mr Jože Tanko, Head of the SDS Group, is also unable to present the position of the Group of Members. That's why we're moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a real estate tax law shall be dealt with on an urgent basis. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 27. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The assembly will consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTAL AMENDMENT OF THE INCOME LAW IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! In my presentation, I would like to touch in particular on the differences contained in the draft law for second reading in relation to the proposal for a law for first reading. I would like in particular to highlight three substantive changes. In addition to the second article of the amendment, the tax treatment of termination of a fixed-term employment contract, as defined by the Labour Relations Act, shall be equivalent to termination of the fixed-term employment contract. It is specified that the tax base of the income from the employment relationship does not include retirement for the termination of a fixed-term employment contract, which is defined as a right from the employment relationship and paid under the conditions laid down by the Labour Relations Act. This takes into account the maximum amount of compensation that the employer is obliged to pay under the Labour Relations Act, but must not exceed the maximum of three average monthly wages of employees in Slovenia. In addition, the law also lays down a rule against circumvention of these contracts due to favourable tax treatment of discharges, namely that the same employer is taxed only the first amount paid and all of the following are taxed. The same arrangement is also proposed for retirement for the termination of the fixed-term employment contract. Similarly, as is the case with the termination of the fixed-term employment contract, it is laid down that termination between connected persons is taxed. The second amendment concerns Article 6 of the draft law, which eliminates a specific relief granted to the resident after the age of 65, as a reduction in the annual tax base. With the addition of Articles 9 and 10 of the amendment, the provisions setting out an amendment to the harmonisation of allowances and annual tax bases in the income scale, namely, the harmonisation is changed from automatic to ad hoc – this part sets out the criterion on which the harmonisation obligation arises. On this basis, it is determined when the mandatory harmonisation takes place when the annual inflation rate exceeds 3 %. These amendments are also complemented by the final provision of Article 14 in order to achieve internal harmonisation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u3	Mrs. Vranitz, just a moment. Colleagues and colleagues, please listen to the presentation of the law. Excuse me. You can proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the additions presented to the proposal for the new Income Act, I note that the amendments adopted have largely taken into account the proposals of the social partners, both in the tax treatment of discharges due to the termination of a fixed-term employment contract and in the modification and coordination of concessions and tax bases from the income scale, by establishing the criterion when harmonisation is necessarily necessary. Taking all of these into account, I propose that the proposal for a new Income Law be supported both in the second reading and in the third reading, provided that the conditions of business are met, that the third hearing be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Say good-bye to everyone again! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 68th emergency meeting. Ten. 2013 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which in its opinion made specific comments to the individual articles of the bill, namely Articles 9, 10, 12 and 14. The members of the Committee were informed of the following material: letter from the Association for the Family-Friendly Society of 16. Ten. 2013, letter from the Union of Free Trade Unions of 16. Ten. 2013 and the material of the Ministry of Finance — calculation of the active withdrawal of the indexation of 16. Ten. 2013 In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, the SDS Group on Articles 2, 9 and 10, the New Slovenia Group on Article 9 and the SLS Group on Articles 1 and 9. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the State Council and representatives of the Civil Initiative of Apache, the Association for Family-Friendly Society and the Civil Initiative for Family and Children's Rights attended the meetings of the Committee. In the debate, a representative of the Council of State also presented the position on the draft law, which said that the State Council supports the proposal. The members of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups pointed to the suspension of automatic coordination of relief amounts with the cost-of-living coefficient, which means less resources for each taxpayer in real life. They also advocated a solution to the problem of day-to-day migrant workers abroad, who are otherwise residents of Slovenia. The representative of the Government said that it was a temporary suspension of the automatic coordination of relief amounts with the cost-of-living coefficient. A solution was also proposed that the coefficient should be determined if annual inflation exceeds 3%. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled to the draft law and adopted the amendments to Articles 2, 6, 9, 10 and 14. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the supplementary draft law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. We propose to the National Assembly that such a proposal be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 17th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Income Act sets out three solutions that I would like to provide a general explanation of at this time. The first refers to a contract of employment. The second solution is to end the harmonisation of the tax scale, and there is no more coordination of incentives, especially for children. And the third is that the relief for workers working across the border is lifted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot agree with these solutions, especially those which weaken the income situation of Slovenia and the Slovenians. Here I am thinking mainly of the necessary coordination with the cost of living. Harmonisation with the cost of living is essential for such a law. We must keep it in this law and not amend or supplement the Law on the Implementation of the Budget by regulating it there in accordance with the current government policy. Coordination is prevented for the next two years, which reduces the income of the population, such as in one of the drafts of this law, so to speak, published by the government, for 20 euros for those with the lowest income, guaranteed wages, and up to 320, 330 euros for 4-member families with two average salaries. This basic starting point, which I would like to stress here, is actually unacceptable – a real increase in taxes, namely value added tax, income, higher prices for vineyards, increased excise duties, introduction of new taxes on drinks. It is a simple situation in the country that leads people to anger and despair and to increasing poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Does anyone want to discuss Article 9? I invite you to report for discussion. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, President. I have to start by saying that I'm going to support the amendment. I think that with the proposed legal solutions, the abolition of reliefs and non-conformity with the prices of living needs – the removal of indexation – is extremely unfair and undermines a just, social state. We hear the full words of the coalition every day in this Chamber when you talk about being for a social and fair country, and this law actually affects the weakest citizens and citizens. This is why I absolutely support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party and I think that citizens and citizens will finally know who is the one who supports the social and just state.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u11	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! I will certainly support this amendment in person, because I think that if this amendment is not supported, we will come to some new hidden tax prepared by the government of Alenka Bratušek, and that this will certainly be a significant blow for all those who work honestly in Slovenia, and that this will be a new burden that will come with the coming of this government. I state that we have already come under the tactics of this government to impose the burden both on taxpayers and on the economy, and that if this amendment is not supported, we can expect a substantial reduction in consumption in Slovenia, as this will be a direct burden on living standards. Above all, it is worrying that Alenka Bratušek rules in some way with measures and tax burdens on large families, social weaknesses, pensioners and people with disabilities. If we just take a step back – under the control of the government of Alenka Bratušek and under the coalition of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, DeSUS and the National List, we will see an increase in the property tax, we have seen an increase in the value added tax, the upper and lower rates. It is worrying at the lower level that it is one of the highest in the European Union and that these are certainly the most a social taxes. If we add a tax on luck, an increase in the RTV subscription, a higher price of vignettes, and it is likely that the coalition will also reject our amendment and confirm this law, we can quickly come to the calculation that the government of Alenka Bratusek will probably take one average salary to the average Slovenian family in the following year. When you're counting all these taxes - now I see that [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u13	Mag. I'm sorry to interrupt, but this amendment is about harmonising tax reliefs, and I'm asking you to focus on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u14	Yeah, and that's the result of that! If this amendment is rejected in order to avoid compliance with the cost of living, the average Slovenian family is likely to be charged with about 360 euros of the new tax to be paid under this heading. If we add up all the taxes mentioned above, we can get the average family to pay a thousand euros a year. Vinjeta, value added tax, real estate – when all of this is added together, we will surely come to the number between 800 and 1000 euros. If this amendment of ours is not enforced, there will be a unilateral intervention in the minimum wage. The minimum salary on the list itself will not be known, but when Durs and the income bill and all, the minimum wage will be lower by 20 euros at the annual level. This was also confirmed by the Secretary of State. It is worrisome that if this law were to be enforced – and once again I would appeal to all Members and Members to support our amendment – the payment of income, as a percentage, on what they are paying today, and on what they will have to do [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] President, may I have a word with you? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u15	Since I myself have noticed that there has been a disturbance in the hall, I am really asking you to listen to the Magi debate. It's a cakemaker. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u16	I believe that the issue for the coalition is agonizing when we talk about the additional burdens of taxpayers, but I still ask that you try to understand our arguments, reconsider and try to confirm any of our amendments. As a percentage, it is likely that the biggest difference between what is being paid today and what will be paid after the newly adopted law will be made and that families with more children will be more burdened than those without or with one. This means that the hypothesis we have developed that the government of Alenka Bratušek is primarily burdened by those with larger families, social weaknesses, pensioners and disabled people is confirmed. It is also of concern that one-sided intervention is a minimum wage, even though the President of the Government opposes or denies it. I think the figures are very clear that whoever deserves the minimum wage and who only has the basic benefits will lose 20 euros annually. However, it is likely that a new question is raised as to whether the real revenues foreseen by this tax are also in the budget – whether they are real or not, given the fact that Slovenia is going along the sides of Greece and Cyprus, by the side of Cyprus in terms of the forecast of the largest drop in gross domestic product, and by the side of Greece in relation to the increase in the number of unemployed. I'd like to point out once again that you need to reconsider. I think that the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is life and reality, because with the new burdens of taxpayers and, consequently, by reducing purchasing power, we certainly cannot solve the economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u18	Your Honor! Income is a personal tax. It is paid by everyone in this country according to the specifics of his income or according to how much he or she earns or receives. Some, because of their inactive role, such as pensioners, are not obliged to make income forecasts, but income mainly affects everyone, and in particular affects the active population, the one who creates it. This amendment, which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party, intends or proposes to eliminate the non-alignment of reliefs, both general tax reliefs and reliefs for dependent family members, with inflation. So far, the rule has been applied to automatically align the facilitations every year with the rise in the price of living costs, which means that tax reliefs to incomes are increasing as much as the cost of living has increased. With these taxpayers, more tax relief is being made available. As a result, the tax is decreasing, which means that the net remuneration is increasing. If this solution proposed by the Government is implemented and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is rejected, virtually all taxpayers will pay more tax next year than they would pay if it were not. This is another measure of this government, which raises taxes in this country, and this is extremely unselective – it does not bring down anyone, nor the socially weak, nor those with a minimum wage. I still remember the evidence of the current coalition of the previous government, which proposed the Public Finance Balance Act, where we were selective. None of the measures in this law have affected the socially weak. Not one of them. It is true, however, that they were mainly exposed to a higher layer as well as to the middle income layer. This measure affects all those who are taxable, including those who are the weakest. They are affected differently as much as they impose various tax reliefs, so it is impossible to say for each individual if he does not calculate for himself how much it will hurt him. But the government helped us. In the original text, the government stated that the family, the average family – two parents with average salaries with two dependent family members – would pay about €330 more per year than it has paid before. I think there is a need to stress the wrong government policy when it raises taxes. I believe and agree that public finances need to be balanced, that the deficit of this country needs to be reduced to 0, not only below 3% of gross domestic product, but we differ in what way. Not only now that we are in opposition, but also when we are in power, we have proposed that it be significantly more affected by the cost of functioning the country, to the expenditure level. We have proposed rationalization in the broadest sense of the word, but not so rationalization that it works 5 people after the new one as it did 10 people, but that the work is also cut and cut, that it is not necessary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u19	Mr Vizjak, let me remind you that we have already held a general debate on this law, and I ask you to focus on Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9 which speaks of facilitation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u20	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! The amendment to Article 9 refers to the coordination of incentives with inflation, which consequently means higher tax, and I am saying that this path is wrong. I want to explain. If you're half listening and you don't understand this, please at least don't interrupt my explanation. The time group has enough to explain its position, and that is exactly what I am doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u21	Mr Visjak, it is not that I understand, but I have only warned you that we have already held a general debate on the law and the tax consequences. At present, Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9 are discussed, and the Rules of Procedure make it clear that you can talk about the content of the amendment and Article 9. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u22	I mean, the President, it's unacceptable that you're wasting my time, because what you're saying is going on in the time of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. I've been taping you, you've spent about 30 seconds of our time, so I'm asking you to extend it to us. My time, too, is now in some way focusing on your intervention. One minute? Okay, thank you very much. We've got one more minute. Your Honor! I believe that the way the ruling coalition is more taxed, and this amendment is the way to do so – because of this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party, if not adopted, people in this country will pay more tax than they would pay if the government did not propose this solution. I think that, once again, this is the wrong way to go about balancing public finances on the second path – to manage costs rather than to increase taxes, as this amendment, the honourable President, as well as the amendment to the next article, speaks. I'll do it again then, because I can see it's necessary, because you obviously don't remember. This article is just one measure by which this government has affected the entire population and is likely to be the weakest because of the low income situation, the lowest incomes that they are working actively. They work, probably as much as they can in the best of faith, they get a minimum wage for this, and they will now pay more income than they would pay if the government did not propose these solutions. This is the first measure that has affected this group of people. The second action that has affected the same group of people has already been taken. That's a raise. These people, who earn little – not only those who work and earn little, but also those who receive various transfers and pensions, have been most affected by the VAT hike, as the largest share of their income goes to this increased value added tax, because they practically all they get, spend, spend on basic necessities, and all of this has been raised in one way or another. This amendment and this article, in addition to VAT, are a second blow to this same group of people. The third blow you are preparing for this same group of people, the weakest, is the Budget Implementation Act, which eliminates the coordination of pensions and social transfers for the next two years. I ask the Secretary of State whether you have already summed up all the effects of various measures on some representative groups of individuals or families, such as the promotion of student tickets, promotion of vignettes, etc. Dear President, you may smile, but all these measures concern certain groups of people who are not more profitable in times of crisis, but who are more economically weak in times of crisis. On the one hand, you are additionally burdening people at a time when they are even on income due to the crisis, because there are fewer jobs, and in these services that are left are lower wages than they were. The link and the negative effects on this group of people are increasing. Indeed, I would like to know how many of these measures, which this government has already designed and implemented during this relatively short reign of 7 months, have already resulted in a loss of income or a decrease in the purchasing power of the affected. It is so easy to propose new and new measures on some basis of the measures already taken, if we are not aware of the effects that have already been caused to these people. Here I will return to the Public Finance Balance Act. ZUJF reduced its income position and further burdened the middle layer families in particular. At that time, we said: “That’s enough, these people have paid enough, we need to save somewhere else, or we need to find reserves elsewhere. No, you with these measures, and this article and this amendment are talking again about the same category that the Government is hitting again with measures! Without answering the question as to how many of these cumulative measures have been taken so far, I really don't think this is right, fair, and it can be unfair. In Slovenia, I am sure that the middle layer will disappear in this way, because the middle layer moves down to the edge of poverty. The low one is either on the edge or below the poverty threshold. We're going to have an elite that's somehow and otherwise insured, and we're going to have a low layer. We won't have that in between. For everyone who has five minutes of time remembers the action that affects this particular layer and also the low layer. Where does that lead, my respects? Where does that lead? I don't know, I don't think a lot of people have read this amendment. This amendment states that the latter should also be aligned with the tax reliefs imposed by an individual on income with inflation. This means that we want those who impose a general tax relief, which is one way or another, and those who enforce other tax reliefs, especially for dependent family members, to be able to assert that their tax is reduced by harmonising tax benefits and consequently have more net income than they would otherwise have. We're talking about this, Your Honor, and if you have to repeat it three more times, I will. And that's what's already been said. The fact is that this measure is for the Government to no longer harmonise after tax relief, an intervention in minimum wage. Let it look like this when you say: since the minimum wage is defined in gross amount, the gross amount remains the same. Yes, but no one gets the gross amount in his wallet — he gets the net amount in his wallet. The net amount will be lower for all recipients of the minimum wage next year than it would have been if the Government had not proposed this change! It's definitely going to be lower! Now tell me, isn't this a minimum wage breach?Oh, my God! It's an intervention in minimum wage, side-by-side, with fraud! It is also sad that you have not reconciled these solutions. You have not even seriously coordinated them with the social partners, but they have a very important impact on the situation of those who are particularly active in this country. For this reason, I believe that it is imperative to adopt the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We also propose some kind of support to the Government to find these revenues through a selective intervention in the rationalisation of public administration. I think our public administration is no longer obliged to do everything it has done so far. We talked earlier about the Environmental Protection Act — what we do here completely needlessly and thus lose thousands if not millions of hours of officials, not only officials but also officials. This way of raising taxes is easy for the income side to look like, but it's double. Dear Secretary of State, you know very well that it is a big question whether from the increase of the tax burden to seize more taxes or then people prefer to enter into other illegal forms. Let me just finish with that thought. The best hummus for the grey economy, to escape legal revenue and pay taxes, is to raise taxes. It's a hummus to expand and strengthen. This government has announced a conflict between the grey economy and other forms of illegal work, while increasing taxes. A mere increase in taxes is an incentive for someone to go from legal to illegal — thinking about why he would pay if this tax burden was unbearable and I could offer my things even cheaper without tax. This path, Your Honor, is wrong, and we are obliged to warn you of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u23	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to state the Government's position on the proposed amendment. With the proposed amendment to Article 118 of the Income Act – and my discussion also refers to the following Article 10 – so that I do not advertise again – and with the proposed solution in the bill we stop automaticity in coordination. Automatism of harmonisation of the tax scale and facilitations makes sense under high inflation conditions. Under low inflation conditions, it makes sense to coordinate and adjust the scales or scales in the light of annual negotiations with the social partners, or in the light of an annual assessment of how harmonising scales or discounts is appropriate in the light of the circumstances. The proposed amendment to the Income Act provides for this. It does not end coordination as such, but replaces automation in coordination with another way, another mechanism, which also leads to the coordination of incentives and tax scales, when this is actually necessary in view of the increase in the cost of living. Both proposed amendments represent a return to a solution as we know it in the applicable Income Act. The proposed amendment to the law should there be no harmonisation for 2014 means that the nominal amount of income at the nominal unaltered remuneration of an individual or the income of an individual remains unchanged. When we talk about raising taxes, people usually think they're going to pay more. It should be stressed that the proposed solution does not mean that they will pay more. They'll pay the same as this year. It is true, however, that if a scale and relief were to be aligned, we would pay less. How much less, it depends on the individual situation of each individual. For a person with a minimum childless salary, this means 1.65 euros per month. In the case of a person with a minimum wage and one or more children, this proposal does not have any effect on his tax liability, as the amount of his allowances is so high that the burden of an advantage does not even arise in these cases. For the average wage, the proposed solution represents a difference of 2.81 euros at monthly level, so that we can look at the different income classes. Why a greater impact in families with multiple children? Because in Slovenia tax reliefs for families with more children are more efficient than for families with one or two children. In facilitating €9,000 in nominal amounts, harmonisation or non-alignment of relief is better known than in the case of facilitating, for example, €6,000 for two children. There was talk of an intervention in the minimum wage. As I have already mentioned, the Minimum Wage Act provides for the gross amount of the minimum wage, and does not affect this gross amount of the bill. The difference between gross and net amount of minimum wage depends on the personal circumstances of each individual. As already stated, in the event that the proposed amendment is adopted and if no harmonisation occurs for 2014, the recipient of the minimum salary without children benefiting only from a personal allowance will pay 1.65 euros more at monthly level than in this year. The talk was about a number of different burdens that are expected to increase this year. There's a lot of stuff going on. On the one hand, we are talking about public taxes, which are the revenue of the state budget or, say, wider, the revenue of public treasury and, on the other hand, other taxes or other payments, which are not public benefits, but are payments for certain services provided or for the possibility of using certain infrastructures, which are also provided. As a result, pressing all of this into a basket is inappropriate or misleading. What different burdens, what these different burdens mean for an individual, are impossible to determine or cannot be calculated because each individual is in such a specific position that when we look at income alone, we need to know a whole range of personal circumstances in order to find out what kind of income each of us is carrying. In order to include the indirect effects of other measures, it is virtually impossible. It takes into account all of the above, once again, that our starting point is that the proposed new regime in the Income Tax Law does not increase the tax burden, but is maintained at nominally unchanged height. However, this tax burden would be reduced if automatic coordination remained. In view of the objectives pursued by the proposed Income Act proposed by the amendment in order to maintain the existing regime, we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Earlier there was a desire to discuss, and I invite you to apply for a debate. We are at Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u26	Thank you very much. When I listened to the State Secretary's explanation of how there will be no higher tax burden, but there will be that taxpayers or taxpayers will have the same amount of money, I am a little bit surprised and I cannot possibly agree that the real situation will be the same or even better for Slovenian taxpayers. On the basis of this explanation, taxpayers could be happy and might say: Now we will have even more money — in case we have deflation. But we don't have deflation. We have inflation today. This law, or this solution proposed by the government of Alenka Bratušek, means that people will have less real money and that because they will have less real money, they will have less standards and will be able to buy less things and will be able to spend less. This means that we are talking about reality. Because we know that we have inflation, we know that we have inflation in Europe, we have inflation in Slovenia. If tax reliefs and tax scales are not aligned, people have so much less. With less money due to the change in income now proposed by the government of Alenka Bratušek, they will also have less money due to the increase in value added tax, the rise in the prices of certain vital life matters and the needs of this tax, the value added tax, and also the increase in excise duties, prices, etc. We certainly cannot agree with this explanation here. The only thing we can agree with is that this government is looking for resources to fill the budget exclusively for people with the lowest incomes and middle incomes, mainly because this is the easiest. Because it's the easiest thing to do, and because it's the easiest thing to change one provision of the Income Act and say, "Look, everybody pay more." Those who have less pay harder than those who have more. This means, as has already been said, that the grey economy will increase. Higher taxes – more grey economy. This is indisputable, and perhaps some single or multiple actions in this regard will not bring about an appropriate increase in revenue in the national budget. Why not? Because people are simply not going to be able to pay anymore, and because people are going to find that niche, they're going to be able to get enough money to survive, not because they're going to pay extra taxes, because it's just gone. Slovenian society today does not live in such prosperity that it can continuously and continuously increase taxes, as you do now. This change in income means an impact on all people. It means €30 million in financial impact. Given that we have 4 billion public contracts in this country, savings in public contracts of 1% would amount to 40 million. However, this means a much greater effort for this government, a much better organisation, also means conducting different procedures, and it is therefore the easiest thing to do for the government to be the easiest. It should be borne in mind that the situation in the country is changing. The conditions vary from day to day. People are in a poor material position day in and day out. Here I appeal to the coalition to prevent the situation from going in a direction that will ultimately leave only mortuary ashes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported. There are many reasons for this. Today, fellow Members Andrej Vizjak and Andrej Šircelj made their arguments very clear about why this solution proposed by the Government is weak and unacceptable to the situation in our country. I listened to Mrs State Secretary, who spoke among other things. If it were listened to by those who are not involved in politics, we would understand that this law, according to its assessment, has no impact on the state budget or has positive effects on those citizens and citizens who are burdened by this law. Now I'm gonna say it's not true. It says here: "Assessing the financial implications of the bill for the state budget and other public funds. It is estimated that any changes envisaged in the draft law in 2014 will result in an annual increase in the revenue of the state budget for income of around EUR 33.2 million." I beg you, is there anyone else in this country to fall for the manipulation that results in no one being burdened? The undeniable fact is that this law is a new tax for our citizens and citizens. It would be very clear, very correct and very fair to say that this is it. Then the opposition wouldn't have any problem. You would understand that you have said this very honestly to the Slovenian public, but the opposition, at least the Slovenian Democratic Party, with such solutions in a given situation and in the problems we have in this country, would certainly never and never agree, and would never and never be able to and will not support such solutions, which at any given time are extremely harmful. In this country, we are all aware of the need to resolve public finances that are still important for this country to remain. However, on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, I have made it very clear and explicit, and I will reiterate once again that it is clear where we have a manoeuvre where we need to go after the reduction of our budget expenditure. If we do not have enough revenue in the budget – this is a fact – and if we did, we would not have any problem and we would not need to burden these groups, which we are now burdening with this law. We know exactly that we have to reduce public spending in this country, and I do not understand at all that the coalition in the National Assembly does not understand that if we have raised 7 billion euros on one side and spent 9 and a half billion euros on something to be done, something to be changed, it is necessary to reduce expenditure if we are to create conditions to make a balance. We now have the budget that is proposed, which includes these laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u29	Mr Pojbich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u30	Excuse me, Mr. President, this is exactly what I'm talking about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u31	No, look, I have to warn you, like everyone else, that you mentioned at the outset that you would support the amendment to Article 9, and then you discussed everything, but not tax relief. Please concentrate on Article 9.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you very much for the warning, but I still think that I am talking about this marriage being part of this story. This law is trying to fill the state budget. I don't think you can deny it because it's a fact. That's exactly why I was saying where the key issue was. We would not even need this law on the table if we came up with the right solutions to reduce expenditure on the one hand if we did not produce so much. Every normal person in the country, including the family, if a thousand euros has come, can't spend a thousand 300 euros, and must first clear up by spending only a thousand euros and 300 euros can't because he hasn't produced them. And we do it day in and day out. We realize that we are spending more, on the spending side, we are doing nothing, and on the other hand we are adopting legislation that is burdening people, and through this we are trying to patch up the difference of 30%, as far as we are spending too much. This is not fair because those who are the least guilty are paying for it! This law burdens most people who are completely innocent of spending 30% more than we produce. Nothing at all! Therefore, it seems good to me that this amendment, which the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed, is accepted and we are trying to create at least a little bit within this law the right conditions so that we do not continue with this situation that I have been talking about. Among other things, there is a solution in this law that is totally unacceptable to residents working abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u33	Mr. Pojbič, you're staying with Article 9, aren't you? We're talking about residents in other articles, so I'm warning you again.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u34	I'm going to finish up very briefly. You know very well that people working abroad went abroad because they didn't get a job here. They were looking for their solution abroad. We now burden them with this law that they will also have to pay a certain part of the tax here. They'll double tax, which I find unfair, unfair and irresponsible. I will conclude with this because I do not want to interfere too deeply with the problems of this law or the functioning of this coalition and this government, and I will only say this for the conclusion. I think and I am sure that this tax would not be necessary in any way if this government and this coalition knew in the right way to propose the right solutions and to seek the money that should come into the budget where it goes uncontrolledly into the pockets of tycoons, villains and thieves, and would not burden these poor people who are barely living for a month. Mr President, I expect you to start thinking in this direction, and you will not support this law in the National Assembly today, but you will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u35	Thank you. The next one has the word of Alexander Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u36	Thank you. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u37	I'm sorry, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would only suggest that you treat everyone who discusses this item on the agenda in the same way. You have already intervened twice or three times in the discussions of my colleagues. The Secretary of State also spoke not only of Article 9 but also of Article 10. She said that in advance, and you didn't even warn her. If you want to lead the debate and judge the debaters with the same vats, then there must be no tolerance either to government representatives or to coalitions who are silent. I suggest that if you have left the State Secretary to discuss this, then everyone else who debates in this Chamber deserves it even more because Members can also discuss it a little wider, not just that strictly, technically speaking, of the proposal. So I would like to ask you not to interfere with the debate of the Members of our Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u39	Thank you for your procedural proposal. I believe that your colleagues and colleagues in the parliamentary group have heard you and everyone else. The Rules of Procedure shall apply equally. I'm trying to warn you at the moment you're going over what the Rules of Procedure allow. The fact is that the debate by Members and Members was wider and then the Government's representative responded. That is why the Rules of Procedure also speak of the need to talk only about the article when we are in the amendment phase and not more broadly. If we speak more broadly, then the debate is spreading and it is about everything, just the article, and that is contrary to the rules of procedure. It is right to be aware of this and to try to hold on to the greatest extent possible. Mrs. Alexander Osterman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. All in attendance, all in attendance! I will make my appointment to the amendment of the coalition parties to Article 9. Coalition parties have accepted this amendment, which, by the way, removes automatic indexation, but there are two fuses. The first is that this indexation is reintroduced once the annual inflation rate is raised to 3% or more. That's when the automatic indexation is done again. It is important to know that there is another safeguard which is incorporated into the law on the implementation of budgets for 2014 and 2015. It gives the Ministry of Finance competence to reintroduce automatic indexation and adjust it to the coordination coefficient. Thus, for example, the coordination coefficient can be determined when the growth of living costs increases for 2 years or 3 consecutive years and is around 2.5% per year, and the standard of citizens deteriorates dramatically or deteriorates noticeably. This measure is announced in the Stability Programme and in the National Reform Programme and, as such, has been the subject of an assessment by the European Commission. With regard to the abolition of automatic coordination of facilitations, we can say that this is only partly true, since they automatically harmonise when inflation exceeds or, as I said, reaches 3% at annual level, and in cases where it does not reach 3%, the Ministry of Finance has an additional mandate to reach and determine the coefficient by which the facilitations will be coordinated in the event of a deterioration of the standard. Doesn't mean he's interfering with the minimum wage. This shall be without prejudice to any salary which is, as a rule, the contractual obligation of the employer. Since we have heard many times about the minimum wage of citizens today, let me stress that those citizens with a minimum wage, who have one or two children, will pay nothing and those without children will pay one euro a month more. That's why I'm going to support the coalition's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Ivan Vogrin has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues from the Ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues! Let's try the other side. I don't know why we would oppose this amendment of the coalition. This amendment of the coalition follows the 22-year work of Slovenian governments and policies, and this model of economic development has led Slovenia to an excellent state. We have economic growth, we have low unemployment, we raise pensions, wages in the public sector are rising and everything is in excellent shape. Am I wrong? Probably, isn't it? Look. This economic model on which this amendment is based is a delusion, for you cannot keep saying that you do not have money for health care, for this and for that, and burden those who cannot defend themselves – citizens and the economy. We'll have no more taxpayers. Really. I don't know if you follow the data on how many companies move abroad every day. Natural persons also move. The argument that we're just cutting automatic indexation for tax relief is, I'd say, I don't think my 5-year-old daughter would believe it. For once we have abolished tax reliefs, in the situation in which we are, we will not wait for them to be reintroduced, not in such economic policy-making. Because this economic model of ours is mainly based on finding the most perfect ways to share. However, we should deal with perfect ways to create new taxpayers and that existing taxpayers can. And we end this amendment, and it's also an intervention in minimum wage. I have already asked once that it would be correct for the Ministry of Finance to come with concrete simulations, because I simply do not believe, and I can also count. We kept the gross salary. Gross minimum wage is gross minimum wage. But if we have abolished tax reliefs, then we have reduced the net minimum wage because the taxpayer will pay more income. This is also part of this law, for if there were no more taxes to be collected through this law, then we would not have had to adopt it and would have stayed the existing law. We all know that. Then it would be good not to have us – I have a little feeling that some Members consider us to be ill-accounted for. Because we know how to count. We know the math, and that's the problem. Each law imposes an additional tax burden on the economy and the population. But it's probably going to be over somewhere. You know, it's good to look back into history, when last the national celebration was the anniversary of Primorska's accession to his homeland and the firstborn said the following, I remembered very much. He said, "When the situation became unsustainable, we had to, and we resisted inertia. Aren't we afraid that's gonna happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u43	Thank you, too. The next panellist is Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u44	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. I have a dilemma. I have to admit, I've read the whole thing twice and I have doubts about all my professors who have ever taught me economics at law school because I think they taught me mistakes. Now this is about some contradiction. On the one hand, the Slovenian Democratic Party has drafted an amendment to the so-called 9th Article, which reads: "Article 1 shall be amended to read: Article 118 shall be amended to read: the amounts of relief provided for in Article 111, Article 112, Article 112, paragraph 1 and Article 114, paragraph 2 and Article 117, paragraph 1 of this Act shall be aligned once a year with the increase in the price of life in Slovenia for the month of November of the current year, as compared to the month of November of the previous year, according to the data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia." This is an amendment prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party. During the discussion, I heard that this law took nothing from Slovenian taxpayers. You talked about 1.65 euros a month in the average Slovenian family. Here I read: "Assessing the financial implications of the bill for the state budget and other public funds. It is estimated that any changes envisaged in the draft law in 2014 will result in an annual increase in the revenue of the state budget for income of around EUR 33.2 million." I don't know if it's some kind of plot of so-called creative accounting. I don't understand this right now. I don't understand because you're deceiving the Slovenian public as such. I think that's understandable. It was one secret matter, it was a hidden tax. If you think inflation or even deflation in Slovenia will be next year – I think it is wrong. The macroeconomic foundations that you have highlighted, your macroeconomic policy has gone into a phase where you will not reduce public spending and where you will solve any deficit in the state budget by raising a whole range of taxes and excise duties. What happened at that time? At this time your budget will fall. Firstly, you have prepared part of the budget in the stage of preparing a so-called real estate law, which is in fact still today, I can say, inconsistent because it is very unfair. On the other hand, there is a whole series of excise duties that will raise our inflation, a whole series of value added taxes — lower and upper levels will raise inflation. We can expect inflation to rise. Will this inflation be slightly less than 3%? It'll probably be. But as such it will – unless these reliefs occur at the end of the year or at the beginning of next year when we will [[Incomprehensible]] income, people will pay. And they're not going to pay for the euro, 5 or 10, they're going to pay for something more. I can say you've prepared, I must admit, a sophisticated matter. At first glance, I can say that those who are very scrutinizing these things like it, but on the other hand, you have automatically added to people's income forecasts – they will pay more. If I somehow squandered my part of the debate, I could say so. I believe that this is the easiest thing to do, that it is politically possible more capable than what Janša’s government has done — that we have been discussing all day, all year long, watching which people in this country would take all night for this injustice to be the least. You tax everything the same, the lowest, the highest – they're all the same. We're not all the same. Some have tried, had no opportunity, and had very minimal wages. This is where Pojbič began, and you interrupted – just residents working in Austria notice this. I will not go into double taxation because I believe that matters are at stake. This government could also get into a car, drive to Vienna and wonder which solution is optimal for our residents in Austria. Not even a little effort. We could have made a state agreement with Austria, and we could have at least a little bit of the opposite, as we call it. That's what's unfair. This difference between law and justice has in history shown when those major crises, including the worst ones, occurred when we are talking about civil wars. That's exactly the problem. This great gap between law and righteousness. It's always a stretch, but we've got one big spread. This is what hurts me, because all these things, especially these irrational public spending, will be paid by people with the smallest income. That's a fact. You can't run away from this. And everything else is a tough decision. It is difficult, for example, to say again – this is what the Constitutional Court said – that the privileged pensions for which we have proposed to reduce – that this is constitutionally controversial. It was constitutionally controversial, but they did not say that Janša’s government’s intention as such was bad. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u45	Mr. Breznik, you know very well that we are under Article 9 and Amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u46	Look, I'm talking about Article 9, what your solutions were, where they brought you and what you wanted to cover for us today. I'm saying what this other side is like, what solutions we're offering. On the other hand, I understand. We must all agree that we need to reduce the budget deficit and, as you know, commit ourselves to having less than 3% next year. We understand you and we want to help you. We're helping you with your solutions. Don't raise taxes. I spoke here three months ago. What's going on? A whole range of our citizens are fleeing to Austria, buying in Austria. A whole range of people with thin fuel in Austria, a whole range of Austrians who came to our house to buy cigarettes, and who, if they got sick, were treated for cancer in Austria [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u47	Look, Mr. Breznik. Why do you think we had a general discussion on this marriage? So we could talk about all these things. Now we're on the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u48	The important thing is to explain exactly what you wanted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u49	No, it is essential that we respect the rules of procedure, Mr. Breznik. At this stage, this must be respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u50	Look, I think that I am one of the Members that I respect the least, and I believe that you will give me the opportunity to conclude this part of the debate, because I think it is very necessary. You want to tax citizens and citizens of this country in the easiest way with hidden taxes. That's a fact. We got you with a finger in a marmalade. You have to admit that, too. Admit to the Slovenian families, individuals next year, if this amendment is not adopted, the country will take so much and so much through income. That's a fact and you can't hide it. Will inflation be less than 3%? It'll probably be, but if it's less than 3%, these people are going to lose. You say that your amendment has a protector if inflation goes beyond borders, which is over 3% for the European Union, that there is a protector. What if it's 2.8, 2.4? How long was last year? Won't they lose? Are you saying they won't lose?Oh, my God! That's the result of the creative accounting I'm alerting. That's what we're talking about here. He doesn't drink water, he doesn't have an argument. You cannot tell me that you will – where will you save 33.2 million euros or get more in the income budget if no one is deprived? 33.2 million. And this is for the Nobel Prize, men of God. Like Pedro Brick, put him away, let's line him up for the next three years. Let us propose to those who have proposed this for the Nobel Prize for Economics! I think the Americans, who also spend heavily, will be extremely happy because these are new aspects in creative accounting. I have to admit that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u51	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Something has been said, let's say, non-truths, and I have to respond to these allegations. First of all, as far as my debate is concerned. I was talking about nominal numbers. We all know the difference between nominal and real numbers or between nominal and real income. The solution proposed in the amended proposal of the law, provided that there will be no harmonisation of the scale and facilitations in 2014, means that in 2014 the debtors will receive an unaltered net salary and a gross salary. However, because if automatic coordination remained in place, their burden would be reduced – as much as it would have been, we would have spoken earlier – then that in the suspicion of millions of debtors means that the state budget would have, we can say, 30 million more revenue. However, we can also turn the matter around and say that the state budget will not lose 30 million if this solution occurs. In this respect, an explanation is also given in the draft law, which refers to additional revenue for the state budget or the financial impact on the state budget of 30 million. Members in this round of discussions have touched on some other public revenues, which are not a matter of this government or are probably still thinking about what was envisaged and not realized in the budget debate last year. The talk was about raising excise duties. The excise duty was not raised this year, except for as much as it was fixed last year. The increase in electricity excise duties, which was foreseen last year's budget for this year, has not taken place. It was about the liquor tax. This tax was prepared by the former government, but the proposal was not adopted and the sugar tax is not being prepared. So it would be appropriate to use the data that is real, not to say real.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u53	Thank you. The earlier interest in the debate has been expressed, so I invite you to report. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! This is a fine law for rhetorical exercise, which Mrs State Secretary has now shown, which you can also admit from the coalition that she is working really hard to defend something that cannot be defended. Simply stated in Slovenian, what will be the effect of this law – the effect of this law will be alone. If what the current ruling coalition proposes is adopted, people will live worse after the adoption of this law, have less money, have less quality of life than they would have had if this law were not adopted, peaks. Everything else is pure conjecture and exercise with words. What will be the impact of this law and why it is worth supporting the amendment and the remaining amendments proposed by the SDS are clear: if they implement the solutions proposed by the current ruling coalition, there will be even less money in circulation, even less money will be turned into an economy, less people will spend, more development will walk, and eventually everyone will live worse. This will by no means save the state budget, because this calculation, which is here, for these 30 million euros, is based on wrong assumptions. It is important to understand how a change in tax policy actually works. This is a key argument for our amendment in this article and for everything we have proposed in this law. In order to fully illuminate this – something my colleagues are already, so I will not repeat it – let me just make this proposal and put it in the light of the whole law. Look, let's say this case. This law also provides for the abolition of all allowances for day-to-day migrants in full. Do you know what that means in practice? This means that the state will take up to a quarter of the money it earns. This means that those, say, in Gorenjska, from where I am alone, who are now very large enough to serve bread daily in the neighbouring country, will pay the tax twice, once in Austria and then the remaining part in Slovenia, and have less money, less money, less money, and less money will be left in their pocket. Surely – we can bet now – as the final effect of this will be that many among them simply will not be worth driving to Austria. Do you know what that means? They will remain in social life in Slovenia. Finally, the final result will be when you figure out that the money for the budget will be nothing more, but there will be more people in the budget demanding their social entitlement, money from public funds, from the budget. In this way, you just impoverish these people and impoverish the country as a whole. It is true that very few things have been accomplished by this government, which would have earned the pre-condition of "virgin". But in this way, to impoverish specific individuals, day migrants and the country as a whole, is indeed a supreme nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u55	Thank you. That's what we ran out of applications for. Is there still interest in the debate? I invite you to report. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u56	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. First of all, let me say that I, like my fellow Members, will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 9 and the other two amendments; we have already talked about the previous one and we have one on the agenda. As already explained by colleagues Shircelj and Vizjak in the introduction, if the Income Act is adopted by the government of Alenka Bratušek, then citizens and citizens must know that there will be no more harmonisation of the income scale and there will be no harmonisation of tax reliefs, for example, for children. This means that all taxpayers will pay more tax. Here we can safely say that the government of Alenka Bratušek obviously only knows how to raise taxes and try out the most vulnerable groups in particular. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, given the financial situation in this country, this is not the right one and is not a good solution, but, above all, this is not a just solution, because this law, the Income Act, if adopted, will further burden the weakest and most vulnerable groups. Let's just look at data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia saying that 392 thousand people or 14% were excluded from poverty or social exclusion last year. If we look at what Slovenian humanitarian organisations have said, we can see that as many as 744 000 people in Slovenia needed the assistance of humanitarian organisations at least once last year. These are data that should also be concerned about coalitions, not only worrying, but rather alarming. I have a feeling that in the coalition they don't know what the real situation is in the country, because if they knew, they wouldn't be discussing the Income Act today, and they wouldn't always be imposing new taxes on those who are already on the verge of survival. Even so, the government of Alenka Bratušek is taking very interesting measures and is pushing even more to the brink of those who do not already have something to put in the pot. A real estate tax shall be applied. Alenka Bratušek or her government raises prices for vignettes, extra burdens families with multiple children, raises prices for the transport of children to school, not to mention that today, due to the decision of the government of Alenka Bratušek to go to the controlled liquidation of two private banks, all of us have to pay together additional Taiwanese loans. All of these are things that indicate that in this coalition you should seriously consider whether you are even able to manage this country. I think we need to think this way, too. Not to mention that the government of Alenka Bratusek has increased the fees. What does that mean? That means they'll be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u57	Mrs Eva Irgle, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I do see that all of you are having the same theme. We have heard this several times before, and I must remind you, like all others, that this has nothing to do with Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9, so please focus on this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u58	Mr President, you know exactly how the consequences will be seen in a while, and we are talking about the consequences that will come if the Income Act is implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u59	I apologize, we are talking about Article 9 and the facilitations to this article, so please focus on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u60	I know what you're talking about, but it's also right to explain to citizens and citizens what this law brings. I don't see why we shouldn't do that. But the fact is something, and I will conclude, Mr President, so you won't say we're spreading the debate because you won't let us. The government of Alenka Bratusek managed to take all these measures within six months. This situation has led to, I'll say, the social state is failing. On the other hand, in six months, the government of Alenka Bratusek succeeded in retaining the privileges of individuals through very high pensions. And that's what she did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u61	Thank you. Procedurally has Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, any one of us who discusses an amendment to this article or to another article should read only what is the content of the amendment. But the amendment also has an explanation, and it would be good to allow also a discussion in the context of the explanation of the amendment. We wrote that this part also refers to the policy of the government of Alenka Bratušek. I think that in a way that we are just reading the 9th article and reading it a hundred times – that is not the point. The matter needs to be explained from different angles of view, and we are doing so. There is absolutely no need for you to intervene in any way in the debate. I warned you earlier that the Secretary of State herself had said that she would not only discuss the 9th, but also Article 10th, and you did not warn her not to discuss the content of Article 9. She said it herself, look at the magnetogram. We can stop the session and I'll show you when she says it. I propose that we hold a debate such as the text of the amendment and the explanation for the amendment – this is a set. Just like the explanation of the law set. There's no point in getting ready to go. I know that the matter is painful, that all those in the coalition who have so far been very fond of discussing such topics do not debate today or are not even in the Chamber. Clearly, the matter is that it is difficult to say anything good in defense of this solution. We hardly know the Minister of Finance. If we didn't watch TV, we wouldn't know he was running on a Ljubljana marathon, that he was, I don't know, in Brussels. In the Hall of the National Assembly, when we defend key budgetary laws, it is not there, it does not appear. This is also an additional problem. Mr President, we have warned you and you were aware that the government representatives must be here, but there is always a second rank, those "receive" officials of the ministry, and there are no officials. There is almost no minister in any matter, and it would be good to provide any competent interlocutors on this side as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u63	Thank you. We have already carried out a number of procedures, including in this mandate or in my Presidency, in order to adapt ourselves to the presence of the Minister of Finance. He wanted to talk to the National Assembly, and he had the opportunity. You know that the Secretary of State and others who are empowered to participate in the debate may also be present here in addition to the Minister. The Rules of Procedure allow this to happen. With regard to the explanation you have cited, the explanation is given to this amendment, but the Rules of Procedure are clear, allowing discussion on the article and the content of the amendment to that article. Once again, I would like to stress that we should make a lot more effort to stick to this business arrangement than to run away from the rules of procedure. The next panellist is Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u64	President, I'll try to hold on. Once again, I'm going to repeat a few things regarding the harmonisation of the benefits. The Secretary of State said earlier that they did not intervene in excise policy as a government. Look, my data that I have - for cigarette spending only in the middle of this year, I think we have picked up 40 million euros less. The Ministry of Finance has data saying we lost 1.5 million. They don't separate the data of those who did, those cigarettes and all those cigarette additives that came from customs warehouses. My data's almost there. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u65	Mr. Breznik, I believe it is difficult to speak of an amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u66	Wait a minute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u67	Not just a little bit, I'm warning you, we're not in excise duty, we're in income.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u68	Yes, but the topic I got from her, if the government didn't do anything in excise policy – I'm talking about revenue in the budget, and now, because you have the wrong policy, you're raising the income scale [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u69	Yes, but, Mr Breznik, look, the Rules of Procedure do not allow you to talk about excise policy if we are under Article 9 of the Law, which is put here in the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u70	Yes, but I was summoned by the Secretary of State, and I'm forced to answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u71	The Secretary of State replied to a number of statements made so far in the debates in order not to open discussions on the subject. I'm sure that's how you understood.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u72	No, that's not how I understood it, President. I didn't understand, and I don't understand. Because this coalition, which is now here, has spoken for one year that we have to look at the revenue side of the budget. I've heard this for a year, and now I want to help them get the revenue side of the budget. But not the revenue side of the budget to raise taxes and raise income scales, but to really get some funds into the budget. I want to help you. I'm basically part of a coalition. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u73	Look, Mr. Breznik, I believe you're trying to help, but right now you're not doing this because you're breaking the rules of procedure. I will have to turn off your microphone if you continue this debate, which is not related to Article 9 of the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u74	Okay, but I'm going back to the opposition and I'm going to act like a classic opposition MP again. No problem. Look, I'm gonna switch roles right now. I'm gonna step back here. You do not need help, but we will continue with the topic of the so-called creative accounting for which I propose you for the Nobel Prize, because I believe that the arguments you have made here today are not in place. I was once taught that there are three types of politicians — good politicians, corrupt politicians and naive politicians. The worst is naive and that's work. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u75	Mr Breznik, we can also talk about this after the closing session, so I apologize to you, but I really need to turn off the microphone because you are not talking about Article 9, do not talk about the amendment, and it is yours. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u76	Your Honor! To refresh you a bit: we are talking about an amendment with which the Slovenian Democratic Party wants to maintain the current regime so that the amounts of tax reliefs are automatically aligned with inflation each year. When we listened to the secretary of state, she said, "We don't really change that, because we're just interfering with automation, and there's still a chance." I ask her whether there will be coordination of tax reliefs in the coming year and 2015. It will not come because the Budget Implementation Act is on the table and there will be no coordination for the next two years. We speak quite relevantly that individuals, taxpayers will pay more taxes, more income than they would pay if these changes to the law proposed by the Government were not. That's right. I appreciate the Secretary of State's efforts to convince us that this will not be anything like this, as the same tax is nominally maintained, but respected, the state budget will profit from EUR 33 and a half million at the expense of these solutions, which means that this will simply be paid by the taxpayers. If all levels of income are paid, from the lowest, only those who work actively, it means that these people will have less money than they would have to pay more than they would pay, and that they will also have lower living standards, because, in addition to lowering their income relatively, they are also at risk of losing their lives if they did not. Dear Secretary of State, how appropriate it is to mention the direct and direct effects on the budget of an individual or family. Whether it increases, for example, the price of wine or transport – this all affects the budget if we add the family budget and the budget of the country if you want. The fact that you have increased participation for individual students, that they have to pay more – you will have to give less from the budget for this purpose. You know that. This solution affects the budget. If it wasn't, we wouldn't have invented it. The same applies to vineyards. A hole in Dars will be saved by a toll-bearer instead of a budget. This all affects the budget, whether you want to admit it or not. That's right, and you're putting all this on the back of the taxpayer population. This solution is also one in this mosaic. I cannot accept your thesis that it is difficult or impossible, or even irrelevant, to put an account on cumulative effects, namely, this action, the honourable President, when tax relief is not coordinated, many other measures, including those in the next amendment, and all those already adopted and those still proposed. I also believe that this measure, a measure of non-automatic coordination, is directed at one very reason – to reduce the budgetary deficit in order to fill the state budget. That's the only purpose. I would also understand, Madam Secretary of State, that this measure is linked to a short period of budgetary deficit reduction and that it is subject to the provisions of the Budget Implementation Act, which is aimed at a short period of crisis. And you proposed a system-wide measure. You delete automatic coordination from your income and at the same time introduce an exception to ZIPRO, if necessary, you will do so in the Budget Implementation Act. I think that this is a bad solution for automaticism to remain in the system law and exception to the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets. I think it would be better, because if this systemic solution is to go on indefinitely, then we'll all end up paying the maximum income. This is so, for if the tax reliefs are not coordinated, we will all convert to the same. It's in the future. Therefore, I think it would be good to think about just a few years in this case and make an exception for these few years, or else it will be a problem. What the Member of the Positive Slovenia said – that with the amendment of the coalition you made a patch on these solutions, you would have put in a fuse to coordinate when there is 3% inflation. Dearly beloved, I ask you, and also the lady who defended this, when and when will inflation last be more than 3% in this country. Last but not least, as the Secretary of State said in 2007, immediately after the euro was taken over, which is normal because they all charged prices due to the conversion of tolars to the euro. You know, that's when one of the stamps came up with one euro and stuff. That's when it was done, and since then, not anymore. Even in the future, there is a big question about when inflation will be so big that automatic coordination will take place. It's sand in the eyes and purely mere conjecture. Dear Secretary of State, I would like you to explain to me why you have decided to give this systemic solution to the Income Act, that there is no automatic coordination anymore, and why you have not given that automatic coordination is preferable unless the Government or legislator with the Law on the Implementation of the Budget affects what I think would be more appropriate for the closure of certain budgets in a crisis period than this solution in this case. Is this part of one strategy that we will receive in another area? That's probably what the pensioners would be interested in. Will there be no more systematic reconciliation of pensions? Will there also be no more systematic coordination of social transfers or minimum income amounts if you wish? Is it part of the policy to abolish indexation or automatic coordination at all levels, in income, in pensions, in social transfers and so on? For it is also in some subconscious of a number of budget makers, in order to cut and secure some closure of the budget, and thus the most violent of people who are already living from one month to the next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u77	Thank you. I note that all those who wanted to discuss have received the floor, but there is still an interest in the debate. I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Previously, the Secretary of State explained the effects of the Income Law on the family budget in a similar way as Masha Kociper explained the fiscal rule. If this claim were true, Madam Secretary of State, then we can explain all business balance sheets in the same way. Depends on which side we're looking at. If it were to hold what you said about the family budget, then no company would go bankrupt, because if you put everything on your head, there would be a positive balance. So I think there's an argument from the scar tissue. This explanation is also very similar to what Mr Stepišnik recently said when he spoke about economic growth: it is economic growth, it is only a little negative. The impact of this income law is also somewhat negative. If this law and this solution were not to be proposed to the Government, then I would not state in explanation that it has 33 million effects on the budget. If we transfer the income money to the budget, then we take it to the families. There's no other source, no family, no espionage. If you're going to take $33 million there, then it means that all those you take from them will have less. Can anyone, say Mrs. Črnak Meglič or Mrs. Potrata or Mrs Žgajner Tavš, explain to me whether these citizens will have more for the positions, they will be left with more for the bills or less. Somebody explain this to me if I don't know anybody. I'm sure they'll have less. Now I'm asking you a question. Is this the way we handle it, just? Is that a fair burden distribution? As a result of this measure, some will fall again on the scale and the part that would be eligible for a protective supplement will increase. Definitely. Whether they take it or not, that's their decision. But if they do, you'll sit on the property – you'll book them a mortgage on everything they get. We've dealt with the Banking Act a little while ago. There we suggested that things become public, that we know who took something out of the banking system. You were against it. Now I ask whether you are advocates of social rights and social, I will say, the position of citizens or are you advocates of privileged positionists who have made a bank hole. In this case [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u79	At this point, Mr Tanko, you yourself have very well explained. You're talking about the Banking Act, so please go back to Article 9 and the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u80	I'm talking about comparisons, Mr. Weber. I hope you understand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u81	There's no way to compare it that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u82	How's that?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u83	Because we are at Article 9, and this amendment is really talking about relief. And it's yours, so give it your respect for your amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u84	You don't know what I'm going to say, even though you've been here one more term than I have, but you still don't know what I'm going to say. All I'm talking about right now is whether this case is designed to increase social rights and to make life easier for those concerned or not. With the gentlemen sitting in the banks, you said we shouldn't touch them. Here you set up processes to reduce their income and their resources for life. I must warn you and remind you of your strong debates on how ready you are and how you advocate a fair burden sharing. Now let us explain to you gentlemen or, above all, to the ladies of your parliamentary group how they imagine this fair burden sharing. On the one hand, you have gentlemen in banks that are untouchable, we must not know anything about them. On the other hand, we have beneficiaries, taxpayers, as a rule, because there is also that part of the economy, espies, small entrepreneurship that falls under this law, somewhere at the bottom of the border, and is breaking through with problems across. It is precisely these categories that receive the greatest grace of the coalition. Are these social measures or not? Mr President, are social measures or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u85	Look, Mr Tanko, you know that as President, I cannot be involved in this debate. Don't ask me as president how I feel about this. Once again, I warn you: stick to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u86	I'm sticking to the amendment, not the rules of procedure. It would be good for anyone else to stick to the rules of procedure, including the chairman. All these matters that we have witnessed during this period are about taking asymmetric measures. Nothing happens against those who have power and who can buy a thing in the media, against the low categories and against those who are at the lower limit, and permanent measures are taken. No wonder almost no one in the coalition, especially from your parliamentary group, defends this solution to the income law. Because the problem is simply that no one can explain how this is fairly distributed. Nobody. They can have a doctorate, but they can't explain it. Such measures, which you are proposing, are destroying the social state. These measures do not increase the social state. They are increasing differences because some of the billions of euros have been taken out of the country, including our money, and nothing happens to them, they are protected, and all of this we take in small ways to prepare a basis for trying to fill that hole in some way. I must say, I will support this amendment. I suggest, or I ask, that someone in the coalition should be competent in defending this solution. The Secretary of State is an emergency exit in this part where we have a parliamentary debate and you are not. It would be good if any of those who consider themselves to be socially sensitive – I see that these are very few – tried to explain it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u87	Thank you. The Government may be involved at any time in the debate. The Secretary of State has expressed her wish to do so, so I give the floor to the Magi. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Two specific questions were put to me and I would like to answer them. Why the system law? I have already said in the introduction that the automatic coordination system is a relief and a ladder of solutions that we knew during the period of high inflation. She has historically been dragged through the Income Act since the first of 1992. When we checked individual solutions, we assessed that, given the establishment of the annual rate of inflation, this solution is no longer appropriate from a systemic point of view and that it is more appropriate to replace automation with coordination when the need arises. The law provides for two options. Where inflation does not reach 3%, the Budget Implementation Act may determine the coefficient by which the scale and facilitations are aligned. However, if the annual inflation rate reaches or exceeds 3%, then the harmonisation coefficient in the Budget Implementation Act must be established. Indeed, the draft law on the implementation of the budget for 2014 and 2015 does not provide for this harmonisation, and for 2014 this means that income on income will not be reduced by 30 million, as long as the automatic alignment of the scale and facilitations is maintained on a level or the same system as we have known it so far. This also answers the second question of how we can talk about additional revenue for the state budget, while at the same time saying that the nominal income of individuals, taxpayers with the same nominal gross income, will not change their net income in 2014. Once again, it's nominal amounts, and these amounts remain unchanged. However, since the nominal available income would increase if automatic coordination were to be achieved, there would be no such coordination and the level of income generated by income generated at a level that is 30 million higher than it would have been if such coordination were to be achieved. I hope I've made myself more clear now than before.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u89	Thank you. There are others who want the word, so I invite you to apply for a debate. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, I asked you why the difference in approach, why this lack of consistency. I'm going to ask you the same question again that you didn't answer. In the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we have a special article that discusses the coordination of pensions, how pensions are aligned with inflation and wage growth. It is an automaticity, or it is decided by the ZPIZ Assembly, etc. The system of coordination is in place and is not arbitrary. It is established and knows exactly how to coordinate. We have the Social Security Benefits Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which talk about how the minimum income is coordinated or how social assistance and all transfers to individuals are subsequently coordinated. We have a system, a respected secretary of state, how passive incomes are automatically coordinated, the incomes of those who are passive, who have either earned a pension and are now entitled to receive it or receive state aid. And now we have a departure from this rule in ZIPRO, where you wrote that next year and 2015 this coordination will not be. That's one approach. You have a different approach to income taxing the active population and you say: no, but now there is no automatic coordination, but the government will tell ZIPRO every year whether it will. That's different. It should be the same. There should be coordination of the income scale and facilitations in the income legislation, while at the same time making an exception in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. This would be the same – the same approach for income, pensions and social transfers. But you've taken a different approach to income and I'm asking you why. This is not fair, because even with minimum income, when we talk about social assistance, even in pensions, things are aligned with inflation. Here, however, coordination will be the subject of an annual debate in ZIPRO, and you have already said that it will not be for the next two years. Once again, please explain to me why active residents, those who create, pay income, cross automatic indexation and coordination, while passive citizens are not crossed out, and you regulate for the next two years in the Budget Implementation Act. This is a different approach to those who are either either taxable or recipients of things from the budget. Please explain to me why you chose another approach here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u91	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u92	It's two different things. The Income Act is about paying the tax, and I explained what the question was, which is why we decided to make a systemic change. On the other hand, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Social Security Benefits Act and the third you mentioned, expenditure from the State budget. In this case, it is about ensuring the income or income of those with truly the lowest means of survival. In the framework of the Government, a discussion was held on the accession of one or the other species, taxes or benefits from the State budget or pension fund, and a decision was taken as it is at the table. More information is likely to be available under the Budget Implementation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u93	Thank you. I invite you to report for discussion. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u94	Your Honor! All three solutions when we talk about the coordination of pensions, when we talk about the coordination of minimum income or related social transfers, and when we talk about the coordination of the income scale or income reliefs, have an impact on the income position. Indirectly on income, because next year, due to this arrangement, someone will have to pay more taxes because they will have less reliefs than they would have had if there were no. All three categories are subject to their income position in the following year. However, pensions are generally coordinated. It's written in a system law, and that's right. We have also negotiated this with the social partners. Minimum income shall be harmonised. Even after the infamous ZUJF, it is aligned with 2014. You have now made an exception in the Budget Implementation Act. You said: social transfers and pensions will not be coordinated for the next two years. I don't know how the pensioners or pension associations ate it, but O.K. With income that affects the income situation not only of those with high wages, but also of those with minimum wages, you made a reverse logic, and you said: no, it will not be automatically coordinated, but it will be coordinated only exceptionally if we so decide. That's a different logic. You used to say that in some way you tried to explain that in those two categories it refers to some minimum income. No, sir, even these privileged, outstanding pensions will be coordinated systematically in the pension and disability laws, including the highest, of a thousand 500 and more euros. I think you've made one system ferret here, one kick that you can't just explain, if that's what you've decided. That's not right. If, on the one hand, we have in the system law the coordination of pensions and social transfers, it is also right that we have generally harmonised income in the system law, unless the government in ZIPRO decides and then Parliament decides otherwise. Here you have gone on a different path, and even though I see you are really trying, I think that even on our side of the flight some compassion with you, because you have to defend these disgusting solutions, and I see that the coalition Members are not helping you. Nevertheless, we have not responded to this dilemma, which is of a systemic and professional nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u95	Thank you. I invite you to report for discussion because there is still interest. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u96	At the time when we had good economic growth, there were very current rates. Now I am interested, given that we are only taking measures that make the income situation worse, the income position of the population, where there will be a collection box in the National Assembly, and who will collect it – whether it will be Mrs Žgajner Tavš or will be joined by someone else from the other coalition, say Mrs Potrata or Mrs Črnak Meglič. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u97	Mr Tanko, I believe you will be able to get this answer, but within this article, I don't think so. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment to Article 10 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, you said that I would not get an answer on the previous amendment. The coalition now has the last chance to respond to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u99	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no, so I am also concluding the debate at Article 10. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2013 Please check the operation of the voting devices. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2 tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 46. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 9. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u100	Thank you very much. This amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes that the harmonisation of the income and relief scale should continue and that the case should remain the same as the one it was for 20 years, since the income in force – otherwise slightly different at the beginning. In particular, in order to ensure the same material position of all taxpayers, all people in Slovenia who pay income. This amendment dictates a starting point, namely, that of righteousness. The starting point of fairness in the sense that the amount of tax does not increase on the one hand and that on the other hand the real value of money that people earn or retirees get from the pension fund does not decrease. This means that this amendment would be a guarantee that people in Slovenia would retain a certain standard and that their income would not be significantly reduced. With all the measures taken by this government, such a solution would mean a significant drop in the standard for all people in Slovenia, and this would also mean greater poverty in Slovenia. This would mean that those who earn the least or who are on the tail of the income scale would be more taxed. Support for such an amendment would mean some minimum amount that the budget would not receive or lose — depending on the point of view we are looking at. In this respect, the government would easily obtain this money in other areas, such as in the field of public procurement, better organisation, bolder organisation of other services, so that the amendment is justified from this point of view and is of the kind that it is for the benefit of all people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u101	Thank you. I note that there is no interest in explaining the vote below, so we are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 9. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 48. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting an amendment to Article 10 to the vote. The amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u102	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support our own amendment for a simple reason. We do not want to impose additional burdens on the active and passive populations in these adverse times when the Government comes with a number of additional burdens on the active and also passive populations, in addition to the income burden on those who create – employees who pay income, independent entrepreneurs and all other income-intensive people. This amendment speaks of the fact that the income scale will no longer be automatically coordinated. This will increase the income for the coming year than it would have been if there had not been a solution. With this, people will pay more income. Together with the previous article and with other solutions to this law, the Government has earmarked 33 million more money collected from the taxpayers than it would have collected next year if it had not been for this law. For €33.5 million, the taxpayers will be at a disadvantage. That money won't be for the bookcase, for the rest of it. The pressure of many of these income-treasures will increase. I believe that it has been unsatisfactory to explain by the Government how these additional tax burdens on the family have cumulatively affected the individual, because we cannot only look at the isolation of the Income Law, unless we look at the other effects of the tax hike already imposed by the Government this year or intend to enforce them, such as the raising of value added tax and the coming property tax. If we put all of this together and put together the incentives that have taken place indirectly, such as the prices of municipal services, vineyards, student transport, we find that, apart from measures that irritate the lives of taxpayers and also those that are not taxpayers, this government cannot propose otherwise to balance the budget. I don't think we should agree to this logic that this is the path that leads to destruction and probably not the goal that the Government has set itself. I'm talking about killing these people who pay taxes. The objective that the Government will not achieve is also, according to our assessment, the objective of the financial impact, because this financial impact will not be as much as it has been calculated, because less taxpayers and some of the taxpayers will also become recipients of transfers, because they will simply fall below the poverty threshold. Once again, we support this amendment, but not the solutions proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u103	Thank you. I take it we can go to the vote. We are voting on the amendment to Article 10. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 25 votes against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we vote? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which would protect people from having less real income, were not supported. When you have not supported these amendments, it will happen that in at least the next two years all people in Slovenia will have less real income and therefore lower standards. Simply put, they will have less money for the necessities of life, for the payment of services, for those who are most urgent, and for those who are more expensive each day, even because they are being teased by the government of Alenka Bratušek. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're surprised there's no compassion on the side of the coalition for those you've advocated most of the time. For those of you who don't have money for bills today, and have much less money for bills than they did when you were talking about people not being depositors, for example, four or five years ago. At the time, the situation of all people in Slovenia was completely different. With such a solution, you contribute because you are reducing the standard that the policy of the government of Alenka Bratušek becomes a policy of ruins and chaos.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u105	Thank you. In his own name he wants to explain the voice of Marijan Pojbič More you are. Then I invite you to apply for an explanation of vote on your own behalf. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I will oppose the law because it is a law whose only effect will ultimately be that citizens and citizens live worse, the economy will go back and the country will go back as a whole. The law is based on a completely wrong point of view to see a citizen, a citizen, as someone who can be burdened to the end, forgetting that the purpose of the State is to give everyone and everyone a decent, decent life. In this case, the effects you are forecasting for the budget are based on completely mistaken assumptions. The most obvious thing in this case is the abolition of all benefits for day migrants, which introduces their double taxation, taxation in the country where they work, and then payment of the additional difference in Slovenia. What does this mean in practice for people from Gorenjska, Koroška, Prekmurje, from all the other parts that travel daily to work abroad? Up to a quarter of their money will then be taken from them by the state of Slovenia. For many of them, this means that it will simply be no longer worth driving to work abroad. In this way, there will be no expected impact on the budget. On the contrary, these people will then come to the Employment Institute and exercise their social rights, which go according to Slovenian legislation, but on Slovenian soil. Finally, this means that the impact for the country, on the state budget that you are looking for at EUR 30 million – that you will take so much money out of taxpayers' pockets and bring it into the budget – is negligible, perhaps even negative. In practice, however, there will be so much more for those who demand money from public funds. Such a policy is shortsighted and is also criminal to people who travel to work abroad on a daily basis. I will oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u107	The word is Andrei Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u108	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I hope that when you have fulfilled this formal obligation imposed on you by the government of Alenka Bratušek, you will take a walk, think about it, and apologize to all those who must go abroad for their bread. I hope you'll be ashamed because I'll be ashamed despite the fact that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u109	Mr. Hear, I must warn you. The moment you explain your voice, there's no dispute. It's meant to tell you how you're going to vote on the law. Please comply with this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u110	Mr. President, I'm asking you to give me back the 15 seconds you took from me. [[advertising from the hall]] I know you're in pain, gentlemen and ladies. The number of young people in Slovenia is dropping dramatically. The data to triple the age of young people in Slovenia by 2050 tells you more than enough. I cannot support the legislation alone that will further strike those young people who go with their stomachs for bread abroad. You know, you've done a lot of things, excuse the expression, shit, and that's why young people have to go abroad to earn more than what they need for a normal day. Instead of apologizing to them here for taking away their future, stealing their dreams, and giving them a confession, we will tax them further. Dear representatives of the government coalition, before the vote, I urge you to reconsider, because such a measure is an inhuman and additional burden on those who work. I'm not going to back this up in any way, and that's not social at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u112	Dear Mr. President! I will not support this marriage. I will by no means support him for the reasons listed today in our Group of Members, and there were many. Mr Vizjak, Andrej Shircelj, Jože Tanko, Andrej Chuš, etc. they have put down a million arguments why this law is not acceptable to most of our citizens and citizens. This law is a new tax, and in this situation, when people have difficulty breaking through from month to month, every new tax is an additional burden that is unacceptable. To focus on those who come from where I come from alone – this is the Municipality of Šentilj, Pesnica, Kungato, Styria, Koroška, Pomurje, Prekmurje, etc. There are at least 30% of people working across the border, but not because they want to — precisely because this country has not been able to provide them with adequate conditions to support their families in their own country. Believe me, there's no one across the board who doesn't want to. This law and this coalition allow themselves to be burdened and double-taxed by these people who have gone belly after bread across the border, who are burdening our social treasury, who, in order to enable this country to function as normally as possible, have sought employment where they were able to find their job. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't that reason enough that I don't support this law and that the Slovenian Democratic Party does not support it?Oh, my God! Those who sit in the coalition make fun of you, laugh and hold your hand in front of your eyes – shame on you!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u113	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. I'm picking up again. I can't support this marriage because I think that when you have a government majority, you have to drive the laws with a little more effort. This law, which we are adopting today, is typically nothing to do, the greatest effect by the way. With regard to residents working in Austria, the case-law of the Constitutional Court of 29 May 2013 states that Article 113 of the Income Act is inconsistent with the Constitution. This means that we have to take a different solution for residents. I don't know any visits to our government representatives in Vienna or in Graz, and together with the Austrians, we would find a solution that would be somehow fair to residents working abroad. Not only in Austria, but also in Italy. I don't know any visitors. I know football games, basketball games. I don't mind, but I think we can do more for our citizens and citizens. As such, this law brings primarily what we want to eliminate, namely work on the black, gray economy, what is most important – even a series of money outflows, changes [[Incomprehensible]] people, including our citizens. The policy you are taking – if the history of the Master of Vitae est is spoken, see, once your ancestors, from which you come, have brought more than half a million citizens of the Republic of Slovenia across borders and have remained there forever. Are we still looking for this? Haven't we learned anything? You will not eliminate the grey economy unless you reduce public spending and show total rationality in public consumption. That's unfair. The leak and all that will increase. The culture of this nation is specific, and that is what practice and history have taught us. Your Honor, once again, I urge you to vote as I do to abstain or to vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u115	Thank you. Voice explanation, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I will not support this law because only solutions are adopted in the last six months, only laws that constitute an unfair burden-sharing. The burdens fall on those who at least deserve it, and the privileged remain privileged. The untouched remain additions, including, for example, the addition of the former President of the Republic. There's no interference there. I propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to increase the funds for the Slovenian Karitas, instead of reserving the funds for the security allowance, because this is the only way that we will compensate this measure in some way, and we will not have a mortgage on the assets of those who seek it. It's the only action. There's no other option. I think that everyone who proposes these laws, which means such an unfair burden sharing, as well as those you accept and support, should seriously reflect on the direction you are taking this country and the direction you are taking people, with more and more those who have no way out. The poverty threshold, or the number of those below the poverty threshold, is increasing. With each such measure, more people fall below the poverty threshold. I think it's a lot to think about. Think of those who claim to be social. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-10-29-SDZ6-Izredna-46.ana.u117	Thank you. I take it we can move on to a vote on the law. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In ten minutes and at 20.20 we continue with the 18th regular session.
