ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-07-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mr Samo Bevk and Mag. Andrey Shircelj. I say hello to everyone else. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Constitutional Law amending Article 148 of the Constitution of Slovenia. Procedurally, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-07-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u2	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In accordance with the agreement that we have concluded together before the beginning of this meeting, I propose, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, that the meeting be suspended and the Government's opinion on the procedure or the introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution. At the same time, I propose that the Government also prepare the necessary elements of the implementing law in order to have a much clearer picture of what we are talking about when we adopt such a change in the Constitution. I propose that the time when the Government will prepare this opinion, let us take advantage of all necessary arrangements to agree on what has been open since the political summit itself since Sunday, all the time, to take this step, which is most useful for the whole country, regardless of the political colour that we have today in the National Assembly. I am convinced that with a common language we can achieve what is absolutely necessary, given that today we are in a situation where virtually every parliamentary group has its own view of what it means to have such a fiscal rule that we are discussing today brought into the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-07-SDZ6-Izredna-32.ana.u3	Thank you, too. Since this is a procedural proposal, it cannot be debated or explained, so we are moving on to a decision. Please check the functioning of the voting devices. We are voting on a procedural proposal. [[advertising from the hall]] It's not working? I'm calling off the vote. Can you check again? Is he okay? Can we re-vote? We are going back to the vote on the procedural proposal. We're voting. 82 Members and Members attended, 44 votes against 29. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. I hereby end this agenda item and the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed the next day following the conclusion of the 14th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and good-bye for the following!
