ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Alenka Bikar and Mr Peter Wilphan. I welcome everyone here. Before we move on to agenda 2 we move on to two notices. Mr Zvonko Černač, Minister of Infrastructure and Space, will be acting as Minister of Justice and Public Administration instead of Dr. Senko Plitčanič, who will be acting as Minister of Justice and Public Administration. By letter of 31 January 2013, the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, informed the National Assembly that he would temporarily entrust the functions of Minister of Justice and Public Administration to Mr Zvonko Černač, Minister of Infrastructure and Space. In this regard, I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, has been informed that Mr Zvonko Černač, Minister of Infrastructure and Space, will terminate his post as Minister of Justice and Public Administration as a result of his resignation. We are moving on to a second announcement from the President of the Government that he will be acting as Minister of Finance instead of Dr. Janez Šuštersič, who has temporarily resigned from his post as Minister of Finance. By letter of 31 January 2013, the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, informed the National Assembly that he would serve as Minister of Finance on his own. In this regard, I note that the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has been informed that Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government, will be acting as Minister of Finance instead of Dr Janez Šuštersič, who has been suspended as Minister of Finance for his resignation. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of Slovenia with the draft Constitutional Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft act was submitted to the assembly by the Group of 50 Members and Members, with the first signed mag. Katarina Hotchevar. In order to further explain the proposal of the act, I give the floor to the representative of the Magi applicants. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying so, and thank you very much. Today we are discussing a third constitutional amendment to this mandate, while Article 90 of the Constitution is also a third attempt to amend the referendum legislation in Slovenia alone. Under the amendment, 50 Members and Members of Parliament signed in September 2012. In the framework of the Constitutional Commission, a public presentation of opinions was made on this subject and an expert group of recognised constitutional lawyers was appointed, who gave opinions and opinions. Let me sincerely thank the expert group on the work done and the review of the proposal, which they have effectively and meaningfully upgraded. The expert group initially concluded that the regulation of the legislative referendum in Article 90 was not appropriate as it was lacking in certain places. A review of professional literature in this area also shows that it has been pointed out several times in the past. The referendum is an important constitutional democratic institution, very important. Too important to be evaluated. Our proposal was to make the legislative referendum in Slovenia a correction to representative democracy, which would be managed in rare selected cases for the most important social issues. It is about raising the legitimacy of the referendum and maintaining the referendum in a modified and improved form. In a public presentation of opinions, several lawyers pointed out that we are proposing a low or funny low quorum for the validity of the referendum. On the other hand, representatives of civil organisations have expressed the belief that we are killing democracy. Our job is to reject both of our findings. First of all, it is crucial that we give the referendum exclusively to the electorate, as it is proposed that the referendum call may require at least 40,000 voters. It is further proposed which laws the referendum cannot be declared for. In this part, it is most important that this provision is clear and clear. This must be the goal when finalizing the text. The section proposes a model of the rejection referendum. This is the same objective, but another method that contains the original proposal. The law is therefore rejected in the referendum if it is voted against by the majority of voters who voted in force, provided that at least a quarter of the voters vote against the law. In Slovenian referendum practice, the referendum requires those who oppose the law. It is thus proposed that the latter are also the initiators of the referendum. They must convince a large number of voters to participate in the referendum and vote against the law. Experts also propose, following the example of other legislative arrangements, that initiators to reject the law must receive support from at least 25% of all voters in the referendum. In doing so, they pointed out that the percentage is lower than in foreign comparable arrangements, but is suitable for the Slovenian situation. In the first part of today, this is how we decide to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution by drafting a constitutional law. Dear Members and Members! In 1990, the referendum, plebiscite, enabled us to realize the dream of our ancestors and brought us our country, our independence. We have a democracy. I therefore invite you today to discuss this important topic in the hope that at the end of this constitutional audit procedure we will be able to unify ourselves and make decisions with the required majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In order to further explain the draft act, I give the floor to the Member of the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body of mags. Katarina Hotchevar for presentation of the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u4	The Constitutional Commission considered a proposal for a constitutional amendment at the 5th and 6th sessions. At the 5th meeting, we took note of the proposal and discussed the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution. Most of the time, we supported the proposal to initiate the procedure, as the assessment prevailed that the current regime allowed abuse for political purposes and that the Institute of the Legislative Referendum was not adequately regulated. The need for change was also pointed out by the professional public. Of the 19 present, 18 members supported the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of the Constitution in question. At the same time, we set up a special section for the legislative referendum and decided to convene a public presentation of the opinions. The expert group is 28. Last year, it produced an excellent opinion, widely and in the opinion of all the members of the Constitutional Commission, in which it presented its views on the draft attached draft constitutional law and on the proposals for its amendments, to which we then followed almost fully the voting procedure. The expert group proposed the largest substantive amendment in the light of the original proposal under Article 90, paragraph 3, which provided for a quorum for the validity of the referendum decision. The section also, taking into account the debate of the members at the 5th meeting of the Commission, proposed that the model of the rejection referendum be introduced into the Slovenian legal order. Members of the Constitutional Commission continued the hearing at the 6th session, at which we discussed the draft constitutional law. After the debate, we have adopted, of the 18 votes in favour of 13 members and no one against, all 6 positions, which we place in the debate and decision-making of the National Assembly for the sake of substantive connection, as a single position of the Constitutional Commission. Let me introduce him briefly. The first point of view provides that voters may request a legislative referendum. The second point of view defines laws that cannot be decided by referendum. These are laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters, taxes, customs and other compulsory taxes, and the law adopted for the implementation of the State budget, the law on the ratification of international treaties and laws that eliminate non-constitution in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitution. The third point of view shall be the rejection referendum, which has not been at least disputed for any group of Members in the debate. The fourth point of view confirms in the debate the indisputable amendment of Articles 97 and 99 of the Constitution, resulting from the deletion of the State Council from the drafters of the legislative referendum. The fifth point of view defines the content of the second section of the draft constitutional law, in which the procedure for the implementation of the legislative referendum will have to be regulated for a period until the amendment of the law on referendum and human initiative is adopted, which will have to be aligned with the relevant amendment of the Constitution. Dear Members and Members, the Constitutional Commission proposes that the National Assembly adopt a decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of EPA 620/4 and to adopt a position of the Constitutional Commission on the draft constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much for presenting the report of the Constitutional Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members, the honourable Members have a nice greeting! The amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or of the Constitution is, of course, one of the most important acts of Parliament, in our case of the National Assembly, and therefore today's debate is very important. However, I would like to recall, as did my predecessor, in particular those who may be listening to us today, not to change the Constitution, but only to start a process of amending the Constitution, which has two phases. On the amendment of the constitution in the field of the referendum, several mandates have already been given, and also in Positive Slovenia, in our pre-election and electoral programme, we have stated that we agree with the practically uniform opinion of the profession and the general public that the current regime is inconsistent, overly loose and allows for the abuses we have seen in the past. In view of this, despite the various concerns of our Members, I will touch on them later, but in the end I supported the process of initiating constitutional change on the Constitutional Commission, as this allows us to have an expert debate on whether the best solutions can be found. She herself would not have talked about why changes are needed, since much has been said about this. For Positive Slovenia, as you know, the so-called starting point, this is the fact that the referendum applies regardless of the number of voters participating. It is said that a relatively small minority group can break what has been legitimately adopted by the legislator in the legitimate pre-planned procedure. And this is certainly not a solution that would express the will of most people and be democratic in this respect. That's our greatest thought. Perhaps it is also right that today's presentation of the positions of the members of the groups begin with us, Positive Slovenia, because without Positive Slovenia, changes to the Constitution would probably have been adopted long ago, in their most restrictive form in the way that was already proposed by the President of the Government with the so-called golden fiscal rule, where it was intended to prevent all referendums with financial implications. The very broad limitation of the referendum or referendum decision was also based on the basic proposal we are talking about today and was proposed on the side of the National Gazette. In addition to reducing the number of applicants, most agree, this proposal has very broadly defined the field of laws that cannot be discussed in the referendum, which, as we know, would cover almost all the laws adopted by the National Assembly. In this respect, in Positive Slovenia, it was crucial for us to make an extremely great effort to find a suitable solution, which must not be completely diametric in the sense that it would lead to excessive exacerbation of the referendum, as was the case with the original proposals. In view of this, we are now extremely pleased with the proposal put forward by the expert commission, which deviates significantly and greatly from the original proposal. While the repairs seem minor, they are indeed crucial in key details. In particular, in point 2, which lays down limits when a referendum is not to be held. We believe that the professional basis on which we are deciding today is good and probably the best in the history of changing the Slovenian Constitution in this area, so we thank the expert together on our part. While there are still some concerns that we would like to clear up in the debate and follow-up, I will mention them later. In this regard, I would also like to point out that the number of letters and messages received in recent days by civil initiatives and civil society show that their representatives are not familiar with the law, i.e. the latest content of the proposal submitted by the expert group. My colleague, Hočevar, has already presented the basic solutions, and I would like to repeat them briefly just to be clear. Make a significant reduction in the number of candidates, and the real candidates remain only voters, according to 40,000 voters. Even the National Assembly itself is unable to propose a referendum, which is, of course, linked to the proposed form of the so-called rejection referendum, when it makes no sense for Parliament to propose rejecting its own law. Of course, opposition is also limited, and after our own political experience, I can say that this has taken away one of the most powerful weapons the opposition has in our system, where an extremely strong role of government is extremely strong, especially in cases where the coalition is strong and strong. The most professionally demanding and even most of the words were mentioned at point 2, changing the referendum regime to so-called indents which set exceptions when the referendum is not possible. These paragraphs have already been listed and most of them are not disputed, and the point of further discussion is that the referendum is not possible on other mandatory levies, we believe that it is necessary to discuss this and determine which benefits are involved, and a section that speaks of laws that eliminate non-constitutionalities in the field of human rights and fundamental areas or other non-constitutionalities. We are aware that these concerns that I have listed now stem from the great mistrust that has emerged in our society and also in this national assembly. In view of our poor experience, we ask ourselves whether there are possible options for a government in a law where, for example, we would say that it eliminates some of the unconstitutionalities established by the Constitutional Court, to regulate a number of other content, and then eventually, by the Constitutional Court or by the National Assembly, it would be said that the referendum is not possible. We have seen this in the adoption of the law, which remains the dark shadow of our parliamentary system, at the ZUJF, when all living things have been swept into it, and the number of things being regulated in the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, to which they do not belong, is increasing. And these are the concerns that we would abuse arrangements for such matters and that we would like to see them settled in the future. As far as the final solution to the rejection referendum is concerned, it is said that the law at the referendum has been rejected, if the majority voted in favour, and if this majority represents at least a quarter of the voters, we agree, as respected experts have also considered it the most appropriate on the basis of a comparative view. Let me say that they are not the key individual concerns that I have listed, but also some other matters, such as the provision that the National Assembly is no longer bound by the outcome of the referendum. This provision is, of course, logical and reasonable in the event that the law at the referendum is repealed. However, it is necessary to discuss what is applicable to the work of the National Assembly in the future if the referendum is not successful. Similarly, individual concerns may not be crucial to themselves, as much as they are key to the overall picture, when experts in Opinion 6 also warned that excessive interventions can disrupt the so-called balance of individual branches of government, 'checking balances'. And for this balance in Slovenia, it is already known after the current constitution, as I have already mentioned, that we have a very, very strong government, which, regardless of what the Prime Minister has said, is very difficult to replace, especially if the coalition is strong. This would end with the professional concerns we have in Positive Slovenia, and just let me have a few more words on another topic. The issue of a political decision to change the Constitution arises for Positive Slovenia now that we have been able to make this constitutional change as professionally as possible. I think we all agree that the worst moment is possible. At a time when demonstrations are taking place outside and when people are screaming for more direct democracy, we are at least seemingly reducing their right to exercise this direct democracy. Of course, it is a symbolic message and I wonder whether we are able to tell people outside Parliament that their rights are not limited and explain to them this complex subject and ultimately convince them that we are increasing the legitimacy and strength of the referendum. In this respect, we are not united in Positive Slovenia either, or in the proposed amendment to the Constitution, but we certainly agree that the current proposal prepared by the expert group is extremely good and allows the debate to continue. We believe that today's historic moment is also important because we still have the opposition ready to amend this constitution. It can happen soon enough. And it is true that the opposition, by changing the constitution, is giving up one of the strongest weapons. If I recall, when accepting a state holding company, Positive Slovenia commented, debated, criticised, obstructed, cried and did everything possible to propose its law so that this law would not be adopted. When we were not heard, our only option was to let people decide whether this law is good or not. I conclude that all trends are going in the direction of direct democracy in Europe and the world, and that we will also have to ask ourselves in Slovenia how we can offer more participation in the governance of the country. As you know, ourselves and our group are committed to allowing people to participate, in particular at the beginning of the adoption of laws, in the initial stage when legislation is yet to be created, not in the end when the process has already been completed. Trends can also be made in the direction of electronic voting and other modern ways of participatory people. But these are challenges for the future, today we are dealing with the process of initiating a constitutional change and, as we say, most of our Members agree that we are starting this process, which does not mean that already Positive Slovenia can guarantee enough votes for the final amendment of the Constitution. To this end, our decision will be a key final text of the referendum amendment of the Constitution, which should not be limited in any way, but only better defined and made more legitimate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Jože Tanko have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. The majority of the Members of our Group have signed under this initiative to amend the Constitution, but this is not the only initiative to amend the Constitution that we have signed in this mandate, which we believe should be implemented in this mandate. One such initiative is to change the constitution in the field of the appointment of a government, because we have a very irrational, two-phase, extensive, non-productive process, which aims more at creating complications than the swift and effective establishment of a government. It also seems appropriate for us to upgrade or modify the electoral system. We have such a system that rewards bad and not good results in elections, if we judge by a relative indicator, that is by percentage, or by absolute number of votes received. And large coalition parties, usually coalition parties, are always prisoners of small parties, cashing out their border positions, and more or less the responsibility remains with large parties. There is also a point of reflection on the institution to recall the Member. One urgent constitutional amendment also relates to the incorporation of the fiscal rule into the Constitution. Not only because of a positive message from the outside public, which is following us and evaluating us and many times, as we think, decides about us. This is not just about credit rating agencies, it is about or above all about banking institutions that lend us money and probably don't care about us whether we pay it at the highest daily or at the lowest daily price. The entry into the Constitution of a fiscal rule also provides a basis for assessing the compatibility of the budget act with the Constitution, which has not been possible so far. There are also some other cases worth considering and improving. With regard to Article 90, the referendum article, we felt that the existing solution could be complemented or improved and clarified so that the very open option for the referendum could now be limited to potential candidates, sharpened with regard to the content that could be the subject of the referendum decision and also slightly changed in determining the outcome of the referendum. Even the latter, although this is the last paragraph of the text of the amendment to Article 90, is not irrelevant. On the contrary. As regards potential candidates, consideration is given to restricting or eliminating those involved in the process of enacting laws. This is the Council of State and a third of Members. The Council of State has the possibility of vetoing laws that bring solutions that interest groups in the Council of State disagree with. It seems more delicate, however, to us either to rule out a third of the Members as a constitutionally acceptable proposer. In this case, it is generally a political minority which is voted in the procedures of the National Assembly and the right to a referendum is a rare one which can be used to prevent or reject a solution that it disagrees with. According to the proposal, more or less minorities in the National Assembly or those who do not agree, there will be only a possibility to request a constitutional review of the solution or a law that they do not agree with. Here we are of the opinion that the matter needs to be settled and that we remain in this proposal and support the proposal that this minority of Members be eliminated as a possible initiator of the referendum and that only 40,000 voters and voters remain as potential candidates. We also agree that the right to a referendum is limited also in the substantive sense to define the content of which the referendum is not admissible. It seems to us that the referendum cannot be described as urgent measures for the defence of the State, for the safety or for the elimination of natural disasters, nor as fundamental financial foundations that provide financial stability and provide the basis for the functioning of the State. It is precisely in the case that last December some people irresponsiblely submitted a request for a referendum on the State Budget Implementation Act, which would, or partly, block the functioning of the State, even for a longer period of time, and even in circumstances that are not very encouraging, that such a safeguard is necessary. However, the scope of this restriction needs to be further developed. I cannot be a hostage of interest groups that set their goals or interests before or above everything. In the end, this referendum requirement was withdrawn, but there was considerable damage at home and abroad. With regard to limiting the possibility of a referendum on international treaties, this provision does not seem to us to be controversial. The Government plays a key role in these international activities on the basis of the guidelines of the National Assembly. Many of these things are going on in confidence and in such discussions and arrangements there is a need for customer confidence in procedures, that is to say, countries, and subsequent such interventions would, as a rule, cause great international damage. We are of the opinion that the solution is not yet sufficiently precise, that the referendum is not permissible on laws adopted by abolishing the found unconstitutionality. We know that, in practice, we never have any clean solutions to laws that regulate the elimination of unconstitutionality or, for example, simply compliance with European Union law. Laws coming to the National Assembly are always governed by other matters. And here, in our opinion, it is too loose for one solution. Rewriting, limiting the right to a referendum on constitutionally protected human rights does not seem necessary. This area of human rights is already far-reaching in the Constitution, and we do not think it needs to be highlighted again, just to make it look better. The Constitutional Court shall, in its decisions, always weigh between constitutional rights or between all constitutional rights and all constitutional restrictions. Their decision is not quite something, but it is the result of a comprehensive application of the Constitution. Despite the relevant and satisfactory explanations of the section, some clarifications were not sufficient and this solution remained in the report. We don't need this record, and we won't bother it either. More important than it looks, this third paragraph. The basic proposal provided for 35% of the quorum, which occurred after longer negotiations and also after the failures of those who did not agree with the quorum. I must say that we have advocated a lower quorum for the validity of the referendum, in the end we have adapted our position to the interests of the majority and agreed to this 35% quorum. The section is now proposing, and also on the Constitutional Commission, this is accepted, the transformation of the quorum into a so-called rejection solution, which essentially has two thresholds, namely that it must be against more than for, and the second threshold is that there must be at least a quarter of the voters against, which significantly raises the conditions for success in the referendum. If earlier at the 35% threshold of participation was 18% sufficient for the law to fall, these 18% are now up to 25%, so that this leap is essential. While we have agreed, in the Constitutional Commission procedure, to support this solution, but after subsequent reflections and consultations, we have been held back until this solution. While we will support the proposal for a constitutional amendment at this stage in the National Assembly, we would point out that it would be useful to prepare the matter further in such a way that, if not the other, we would vote separately on this third paragraph at the stage of the hearing at the Constitutional Commission. If this is not so prepared, then it is likely that our votes will wane in the final vote. It seems reasonable, however, that this constitutional amendment also regulates the technical law, a law on the referendum and the human initiative, to eliminate all those identified shortcomings that have been detected in the procedures so far and to make a qualitative move at this level. There is no need for what we know to remain a problem in the implementation of the referendum. What she has detected can be eliminated, and other things that may occur even in the process of amending this Article of the Constitution or other things can be regulated later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber and the Group of Social Democrats have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Let me say that the Social Democrats mentioned in this mandate the amendments to Article 99 of the Constitution, which regulates the referendum as a key solution to address these issues, among the priority measures to achieve a balance between public finances and the protection of human rights. This was due to the severe consequences of the referendums against the pension law, the abolition of work on the black and the provision of small work. Credit ratings dropped dramatically after this referendum in Slovenia. Thus, because of its own decisions, Slovenia has not addressed the growing flow of funds into the budget due to the decline in economic growth resulting from the global economic and financial crisis, it has also entered the crisis itself. The referendums were also misused during that period to achieve political interests with a clear purpose of taking power at all costs. At that time, we heard from opposition politicians that we did not need to change the pension system, but today we can see how short-sighted and harmful it was for all of us to act in that part of the policy that advocated such a position. Today, too, it is clear what was the reason for such short-sighted behaviour and for the very clear interest of politics to take power at all costs. This is reflected in today's effort to sell state property, which is now valued at around 12 billion euros, but unfortunately we find that legal solutions do not lead to the rescue of the country by selling this property and not to the resolution of the social distress of the people, because this money will not come into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia if this sale is made. Thus, after the rejection or support of the referendums at the time, a new elite in Slovenia is really trying to form itself, even through the acquisition of the silver state, which we still have in state ownership today. At the moment when we are discussing the amendment of article 90 of the Constitution, the proposed amendments to the Constitution by the expert group and the Constitutional Commission are also supported because these changes give only the people the right to request a referendum and this change of constitution takes this right to politics or to the National Assembly and to the Council of State. We consider this to be one of the most important decisions, both by the Constitutional Commission and by the expert group, in the drafting of Article 90 of the Constitution. Another important decision made by the proposal is that the proposed amendments eliminate the weakness of the current regime, so that the Constitutional Court has an overly free field of assessment when deciding on the admissibility of the referendum invitation to tender. It is therefore very important that we introduce into the Constitution areas on which the referendum is not possible. Among these Social Democrats, we put the laws governing human rights and fundamental freedoms first, as well as the laws of a financial nature which are crucial to ensuring the social state, the security of the state, the defence of the state and, of course, the management of natural disasters. In doing so, we must stress that everything cannot be enshrined in the Constitution, on which the referendum is allowed and on which it is not permitted, and therefore it must be stressed that this area needs to be regulated more precisely by the law on referendum and human initiative, which should specify the legal content and conditions, as well as the more precise criteria for their assessment, which will guide the Constitutional Court in its decision on the admissibility of the referendum. However, we must write down the anchors to which the Constitutional Court must bind itself when deciding whether or not to allow a referendum on an individual law. And this is one of the biggest shortcomings of the current 90th. We believe that this text, which we are considering today, is very successful in approaching this objective. Social Democrats, and I am sure that all of us, too, are aware that the referendum is an expression of the will of the people, so it is necessary to have as many voters as possible. This should always be the aim of the initiators of the referendum, so we support the envisaged solution whereby the law in the referendum will be rejected if it is voted against by the majority of voters who voted in force, provided that at least a quarter of all voters vote against the law. In this way, the will of the people would achieve a higher level of legitimacy than the very low participation of voters in the referendums has generally been the case so far. Once again, the Social Democrats support the opening decision and the views put forward on the draft constitutional law, which will be re-ordered by Article 90 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and by Mrs Polonca Komar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues! In the Civil Gazette, we support the initiation of a procedure for the constitutional amendment of the referendum regime. The latter we have advocated, and we have also written into our program. The Constitution, the highest codification of the State, is also subject to the changes imposed by the development of a society or community. We agree that interventions to the Constitution must be carried out exceptionally, on the basis of sound reflection and broad debate, and therefore we welcome the fact that there has already been a public presentation of the opinions on the legislative referendum on this subject. The purpose of the amendments proposed is not to abolish democratic institutions. On the contrary. Changes in the direction of improvement of existing arrangements are proposed. Both scratches and experiences point to this need. Finally, a comparative review. After 20 years of practice, we adapt this constitutional category to the current situation and return the referendum to the electorate. We have a very unique referendum model in Slovenia. We have the most qualified candidates for the referendums, four, we have no restriction on content, we have a one-year suspension period on the decision taken. We have not found a country in the EU that would allow such easy access to referendums, and therefore, especially in the professional public, there have been opinions that changes and additions have been necessary in this area for many years. The fundamental amendments proposed in determining the validity of the referendum within the scope of proposing are also provided for a framework of laws on which the referendum will no longer be possible. The Section, which was appointed within the framework of the Constitutional Commission, has drawn up views and proposals, which we fully support in the National Gazette, including the model of the rejection referendum, which is the largest substantive deviation from the original proposal. The model of the so-called quorum proposed is based on electoral participation and the rejection model is based on the number of those who determine. The candidates for such a referendum must convince a large enough number of voters to participate and vote against the law. Prescribing the minimum number of voters within the electoral body as a condition for rejecting the law means that its failure to comply is due to the fact that the law is not rejected and can therefore be declared and enforced. In the Civil Code, we are convinced that, by amending Article 90 of the Constitution, we are actually giving due legitimacy to the legislative referendum and increasing its importance, so Members and Members of the Civil Code will support the decision to initiate a constitutional change procedure together with the views of the Constitutional Commission in the draft constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and by Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although we are only now starting the first part of the constitutional change process under referendum legislation, there has been a great deal of ink on this subject and also a huge amount of time spent, not only on us Members, but also on a number of experts who have studied these changes. I really hope, and it would be a shame if all this work were for nothing. Let me, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, take a completely concrete walk through the foretold changes. We thought there were no dilemmas around qualified candidates for legislative referendums, but there are reservations that have been heard. It is our opinion, however, that 30 Members, who do not have 40,000 voters, do not have credibility to call for a referendum and thereby obstruct the adopted law by the majority. The referendum should be solely the domain of citizens and citizens, everything else is one way or another political interference. Forty thousand is a sufficient critical mass of people who have the right to verify human will. Furthermore, we have the inadmissibility of calling for a referendum or a desire to explicitly limit the referendum to certain laws that are not, by their nature, suitable for direct voter decision-making. The fact is that we do not have any record of this subject in the Constitution today, although there is more or less practice in such constitutional arrangements abroad. It is true, however, that the Constitutional Court has recently had to pay much attention to this particular problem. Even at this point, there is no major reservation between us that the law on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the country, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters is not a place in the referendum. Then there are laws which have provisions in their content which are unconstitutional and which need to be repealed by new legislation. This is, of course, perfectly logical, but again in the Slovenian People's Party we would like to draw attention to certain details. In our view, it is very clear that such a law can only contain articles that abolish non-constitutional regulation and cannot contain any other content. In this way, we would limit the possibility of abuse in order for someone to accept a number of other changes under the cover of the abolition of unconstitutionality, for which an article that eliminates unconstitutionality would not be an option of a referendum judgment. There are also laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory taxes, on which the implementation of the State budget is directly dependent or which have an impact on other expenditure or guarantees. While we are convinced in the Slovenian People's Party that certain financial content is not suitable for referendum decision-making, it is mainly due to the constitutional regime itself which obliges the State to fulfil its obligations towards citizens in the form of social state, in the form of providing pensions, providing a certain level of public services. However, a certain economic policy must also be pursued to ensure that these funds are provided. Citizens in elections decide whether such a policy is right or wrong, but it is wrong to limit the efforts of the ruling option at each point to any attempt to provide means to fulfil their obligations to citizens. If I do some caricatures, in theory, the citizens of the referendum could vote that the contribution to the pension allowance would be minimal for all citizens, while at the same time the state should provide everyone with adequate pensions and other obligations. Although this case may be extreme, in the current fiscal situation this is irrelevant and should be noted in such cases, as people would, of course, generally want more rights with less obligations. But we're all aware that that's not how it works. Citizens must express their will for such or different policies in elections, not in referendums. It is true, however, that the so-called impact on other public finances or guarantees is a very broad dictatorship that leaves a vastly open space. Practically most laws have certain financial implications and with a broad definition of the ban on the referendum something could quickly be banned by practically a large majority of legislation. By the way, this is also pointed out by a group of experts, so I believe that there will be a clearer definition of where the border is, when the negative financial consequences prevail over the democratic right of people to a direct definition of the law. The section mentions that, while these issues do not have to be addressed directly in the constitution, it is possible to specify more precisely the laws on which the referendum would not be admissible, and also the precise criteria for assessing such legal matter in the referendum law and in the human initiative. Of course, in this case this should be a parallel process for adopting these criteria. Finally, the so-called quorum or condition for the validity of the referendum decision. Subject to the 35% participation envisaged in the original proposal, we are now defining ourselves to the rejection model of the legislative referendum. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always expressed doubts about the Quorum threshold, as it could also be part of the campaign to call voters to non-participation, counting on participation to be too low and to announce the law, which is totally inappropriate and lowers democratic standards and regulations. The rejection referendum excludes such an option, as they would actually count against it, but it is true that they should be minimal, as much as 25% of all electoral beneficiaries. And that's almost 430,000 electives and voters, which certainly isn't a small number. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that this threshold could also be lower and would still give credibility to the decision at the referendum. This is certainly not negligible at a time when participation in elections and even more so in referendums is steadily falling. Especially if we know that, theoretically, in the case of a general quorum, for example, the initial proposal is 35% enough to reject the law by 18% of all electoral beneficiaries. The rejection referendum therefore has a positive impact on the prevention of a negative campaign, but the current condition for the validity of the will of the people is even more acute in the light of the initial proposals. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure and thus allow us to talk and work further. We believe that we can come up with certain solutions that would actually receive the necessary two-thirds support. But we wish none of us would have walked into this story with a fig in our pocket. It is perfectly normal that there are different views of individual parties, but now we are on the test today, whether we can also agree and agree on a matter. I hope we can make this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you for saying so, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting to all! The position of the DeSUS Group on the constitutional amendment under consideration is positive both in terms of the opening of this procedure and also in terms of the position of the Constitutional Commission itself, which has reached the conclusions proposed on the basis of the opinions of the constitutional experts. Although in principle, in the DeSUS Group, we are not in favour of the fast-moving changes to the Slovenian Constitution. For we believe that this is an act, i.e. a fundamental act of the State, which, by virtue of its status between legal acts and the content itself regulated, must be subject to strength and stability. The amendment of the Constitution in the work relating to the Referendum Institute has been a speech for several years. Nor is it possible to ignore attempts to make changes in this direction, which remain only in trials. Obviously, so far, there has not been enough political consensus to begin to discuss this professionally, let alone to adopt different solutions as enshrined in the Constitution. In what way and how the proposal changes the Institute of the Referendum, it would not repeat itself. There was much to be said about it today before that speaking desk. The DeSUS Group agrees with the assessment that this proposal represents a restriction on the Institute of the Legislative Referendum. No one denies this, but this restriction, which is both a restriction on qualified candidates, a quorum and a limitation on the substantive referendum decision, does not, in our opinion, constitute a restriction on democracy, does not mean limiting the direct decision-making of the electorate and of the electorate, but rather restricting the abuse of this institution. And this is where it comes in the first place to restrict the possibility of political abuse. And with that, I don't want to point at anyone. The exceptionally bitter taste of the choir itself is often followed by the confirmation of the veto by the Council of State by the submission of requests or referendum initiatives is almost a permanent practice. During the period from independence to today, the results show that the Institute of the Referendum has been used for political blockades since the democratic adoption of laws. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to prevent or at least reduce the possibility of abuse of this institute. The presentation of regulation in other countries also shows that Slovenia is a fugitive in this area. We also note in our Group that citizens and citizens do not wish to express their views through the referendum on any issue which is politically controversial and on which policy cannot reach a minimum consensus. However, certain areas are certainly appropriate, even if it turns out to be necessary to ask people for their opinion, there is no doubt about that. Most of the cases point to low participation in referendums, and the percentage of non-participating also tells us a lot of things. The fact that the results of the referendum decision are not always the result of the answers to the referendum questions, but the result of the general dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens, is also extremely worrying, according to our assessment. And it's also an abuse of the Institute of Referendum. I would like to stress that I am not here pointing to citizens and citizens in any way, but to political options that unfortunately abuse people. In the DeSUS Group, I have already said that we agree with the views drawn up or formed by the expert group. However, when a referendum is not allowed, I would like to stress once again the cases of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the urgent measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, but also the laws on taxes, customs and other obligations on which the implementation of the State budget is directly dependent, and the laws which have an impact on other public financial expenditure or guarantees. These laws have an impact on other public expenditure and guarantees, according to the DeSUS Group. Otherwise, the prohibition of a referendum could refer to a number of laws which contain or only mention only one article on public expenditure or guarantees. In this particular case, I highlight the definition of the law on pension and disability insurance. In the DeSUS Group, we support the amendment of the referendum institute and therefore the DeSUS Group supports further procedures for amending the Constitution and adopting the position of the Constitutional Commission presented by Mrs Katarina Hočevar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The new Slovenia and mag Group have the floor. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u18	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! When we talk about changing the Constitution, we cannot go beyond the climate that is now emerging in our country, in our society. If you look at a public opinion survey, you will find that more than two thirds of citizens are in favour of constitutional changes and that in some ways they are fed up with all these floods of referendums and various initiatives that block the implementation of certain laws through proposals for a referendum. But in addition to these researches that speak their own, Members of Parliament in these days receive a number of electronic messages from a wide range of stakeholders calling on us not to change the constitution because we will act undemocratically, counter-nationally, counter-humanly, and whatever else we might find. Unfortunately, these groups most often use statements and expressions that try to discredit individual Members who are a little more actively seeking to change the constitution, and I am also the victim of these efforts when they tell me, for example, yesterday, when they tell me that I have no idea about collecting signatures. Let me tell them that I have collected several signatures, including signatures for the law, 5,000 signatures for the Agricultural Chamber Act, and signatures for other referenda and also signatures for my candidacy when we were still an extraparliamentary party. So everything's not as bad as it seems. But the point of all this is how our opinions can be so different. I am aware that our actions and our discussions in this House have a relatively low reputation. But we cannot go beyond the fact that this is still a key institution of democracy. I can understand people that they want more influence in regulating state affairs, but that much of the impact is hard to get through the referendum, but they have to be politically organised, go to the elections and come to this Parliament. Before the last elections, two parties embarked on a similar project in this way. I also cannot agree with the thesis, which is increasingly emerging, that the excess of democracy could be that a minority can always and everywhere block the majority. It's just not democracy for me. Democracy is that most hear and try to follow the minority, but it cannot be a democracy that the minority always blocks the majority. Whether we admit it or not, the referendums are a problem, and in history, some governments have fallen, and they have caused a backlog in structural and other reforms. And these are the facts. If we look at what this article brings us, here I can agree with my colleague Kociprov that some have not read or seen the most recent variants and that they do not know all the details, then it will not be too much if I repeat once again what Article 90 even introduces. The first paragraph, or most importantly, seems to me that the new Article 90 proposal of the referendum takes place from the policy perspectives and puts it exclusively in the hands of the people. Article 90 also speaks of content that should not have come to the referendum. Four indents exist, from defence, financial matters, international treaties and human rights, and finally there is a third paragraph, which speaks of when this referendum is in force. What seems controversial after today’s discussion, and what is not the issue? Surely, for everyone sitting in this Chamber, there does not seem to be a dispute between the first paragraph, which speaks of this policy being ready to renounce today's right and the opportunity to referenda and that we all agree to give it exclusively to the people. That was to feel and to hear that it was undeniable. There are still several problems in the content on which we might have a referendum and about which we do not. At least two things seem undeniable. One is that the referendums on the defence of the state and natural disasters and on international treaties are not disputed and that there should be no referendums on these two topics. However, problems arise in the other two indents, which are laws related to finance and human rights. Let me comfort all those concerned that the lecture is written so that virtually no referendum can be held just because there will be an article somewhere inside that allows for some financial consequences. If you have read the instructions or recommendations of this expert commission of the Constitutional Commission, you can find that this matter should be determined in detail which laws will be applied. And I think that's where all the doubts are superfluous. As far as human rights are concerned, I must agree with those who say that this is unnecessary duplication. The Constitutional Court cannot already have too much scope in its decisions, since the Constitutional Court is bound by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And all those human rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia must also be followed by the Constitutional Court. And the last thing that seems to be most problematic is, under which conditions the referendum will be valid. You will probably remember that Nova Slovenija was the party that strongly and strongly opposed the 35% quorum. And even this quorum was set up as many of you have already pointed out that the content, the campaign at the referendum would not even be important, it would only be important who stayed home and who didn't. The solution put forward by the Constitutional Commission goes in this direction that more than opposition to a law, lower electoral participation will be required in this referendum. There will be a greater need for a quorum, and more participation will be needed. I can say that we would not want to take responsibility for that language on the scale that would mean that the attempt to change the constitution would fall because of us because of New Slovenia. This is why we have been and are prepared to brush our teeth in this proposal of the Constitutional Commission, although we are not satisfied with it. Nevertheless, we wish and hope that further procedures and coordination will continue to reduce this quorum. If I understand correctly, at least two groups of Members in today's positions have expressed this desire and this possibility. But after all, we must realize that one is desire, and the other is the cruel reality of a two-thirds majority. If I conclude, I can say that New Slovenia will give an opportunity and support the launch of these constitutional changes at this first stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is by the Italian and Hungarian Group of Nationalities and by Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! As we have pointed out several times so far, we will support the initiation of a procedure to amend Article 90 of the Constitution. We are very aware that the current political moment, this confused time, as some rightly call it, is not the most appropriate for such important decisions, but, in view of the business provisions of the manoeuvre space for another, there is almost no need to check the actual desire to amend the so-called referendum article of the Constitution. The democratic system is, as a rule, based on the free will of any electoral beneficiary to contribute, by his sovereign decision, to the establishment of a legitimately elected legislative authority. Which and what kind of legislative authority this is, shall be determined on the basis of majority support through legitimate free and secret elections. Free after Churchill – a better way to establish democracy so far no one has ever invented it. Legislators, with the cooperation of the executive, the professional public, civil society, other stakeholders, or at least should do so in order to take appropriate decisions for the wider community reflecting the ethical, political, social, economic, cultural and other needs or aspirations of the largest possible percentage of citizens. Of course, it is true that decisions will never be made at the will of the entire population, but it is very important to approach the highest possible majority with a special sense of social, national or otherwise threatened communities and individuals. It follows clearly, and this is among the basics of developed parliamentary democracy, despite certain procedural differences in different countries, that laws and others, for the most important country, take decisions by the National Assembly or the highest legislative branch of government. Any error in the adoption of laws is generally corrected on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, but there are, of course, other mechanisms in the wider process of improving the legislative procedure, of which the Institute of the Referendum undoubtedly is responsible, i.e. the direct decision of the electoral beneficiaries on a particular content. Here we come to the essence of today's decision to amend Article 90 of the Constitution. The referendums, according to the unwritten logic of democratic parliamentaryism, are aimed at those decisions that are historically decisive or at least have an over-average impact on the existence, vital interests and development of a particular community, nation or country. In order for the referendum to become such an institution, it should be subject to appropriate criteria regarding the percentage of participation of the electorate, the level of support and, above all, the content. In order not to make any mistake, the referendum may also be intended for other decisions, including the assessment of the legislative text, if it is in the interest of the relevant majority of citizens. However, it should not be aimed at political accounting or blackmailing such or other groups in the event that a changed decision could result in a situation that is not in the interest or even to the detriment of the majority of citizens. We welcome the initiative that political factors, i.e. political parties, Members of the Council, cannot trigger a referendum, but that is exclusively the right of citizens to meet certain quantitative criteria. The referendum must be the highest in the decision-making system used in the most important cases, of course, even in the case of possible major errors of the elected authorities. However, it must not be a means, for example, as we announce in the preparation phase of a matter of marriage if, as a small group, its content is not available to us. In order to make the distinction between the right choice and the abuse of the referendum more optimal in particular from the point of view of all citizens, including the one living in the farthest part of the village of Premur, and in the true sense of the word democratic and just, more appropriate criteria are needed from the present form. For these reasons and because, in our opinion, the competent expert group has clearly and appropriately defined the content and criteria of the proposed amendment, which, if necessary, can be improved further in the process, we will, as I have already said, support the initiation of the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word to prepare Mr. Richard Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! Over the past two decades, our constitutional arrangements have often raised the question whether the legislative referendum is a place for active citizenship or, in fact, a place of political blockades that can reject many of the very decisive things that are important for the survival of the country and the citizens. I think that, in the process of the talks that have been held here in the National Assembly on the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution, we have come to some kind of agreement that a referendum should be allowed primarily to the citizens and that there should be limited room for implementation or for requests for a referendum to those who already have a so-called political voice or have a lot of opportunity to negotiate their judgments in the processes either in the National Assembly or in the State Council. I also trust this joint assessment because they have been supported by the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly, and unanimously. I also trust that this is done on the basis of an expert group that has really gone into all the details of this issue. I also trust this solution, as it is said, because today, in the presentations of all the parliamentary groups, we have heard that we are in agreement or agree to take away one part of the rights that go primarily to the National Assembly in the process of adopting legislation, namely that part of the rights that normally belong to a minority. I am also aware of what has already been said today that in the system of brakes and balances a balance is being broken in favour of the executive power. When the National Assembly took up the option or minority, usually the opposition in the National Assembly took the opportunity to take the initiative for referendums, in effect it reduced the position in the relationship established, that is, the barrier and the balance. However, this position of the National Assembly is strengthened to the second branch of government, to the point of court. In the second point, when a question was raised on which topics the legislative referendum would not be admissible. In fact, so far, the Constitutional Court has been the one that has been able to judge, in accordance with the Constitution's record, on which things the referendum is admissible and which it is not. After that, when and of course we set out in the 90th article on which topics are admissible, we have, in fact, made clear here in the National Assembly what those are the basis for defining the Constitutional Court when it comes to the admissibility of the referendum. I think it is of course important that the referendum is not possible to take urgent measures to ensure the defence of the country, but also to address the consequences of natural disasters, as well as the ratification of international treaties, but of course those that do not mean a derogation of sovereignty to other countries or organisations. I also support the inadmissibility of referendums when it comes to the amount of tax duties and the law on the implementation of the budget. However, I am joining those who say that it would also suggest that what can be written in these laws is very precise. This week, we have talked a lot about human rights and their violations, which cause the Ombudsman's report to grow year after year. If we are to sincerely protect human rights and freedoms, then I think that the right to a referendum on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights must be restricted. And one last thing. We seem to agree on a rejection referendum, but we have different opinions on the entry threshold or the validity of this rejection referendum. Some believe that the threshold for participation in such a referendum is too high. We must remember that in the past we have repeatedly criticised the fact that laws have fallen because they have been overrun by the so-called minority of voters, to the silent majority who have not gone to the referendum, but have not been against the law. Since a culture of opposition is more present in Slovenia than a culture of attachment, it is right that we have a rejection referendum, but it is also right that the threshold for participation in such a referendum is high enough to guarantee legitimacy. It has been heard many times in these debates so far that it is an important example of Switzerland. It is important, in a way, because participation in elections and referendums is compulsory in Switzerland. The referendums are held for several days, the date of the referendum is essentially the date of the conclusion of the vote. We are just talking about the entry threshold for participation in the referendums, and their participation is self-evident. It is true, however, that in the 700 years of the country’s existence, our constitutional order and our democracy are old to good or bad, weak 23 years. I hope that it will not take us 700 years to come up with this common assessment of what the entry threshold is for the referendums and, of course, for the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you, Vice President. My debate would go in the direction or a little bit more of the second paragraph of Article 90 as set out by the proposer. This is a restriction on referendum content. The current proposal of Article 90, second paragraph, states that the referendum is not admissible if human rights and fundamental freedoms could be affected or other unconstitutional consequences could arise, on laws on urgent measures to ensure the protection of the State, security or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and on laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory taxes, on laws directly dependent on the implementation of the State budget, and on laws affecting other public expenditure or guarantees. We have not had such content in the Constitution since the adoption of the Constitution. However, we did have in the 1994 Law on the Referendum and People's Initiative a legal provision, which was enshrined in Article 10 of this Act, which reads as follows: "The Legislative Referendum cannot be declared, the laws which are adopted in a rapid manner, where the extraordinary needs of the State, defence or natural disaster so require, the laws on which the adopted state budget is directly dependent, and the laws which are adopted for the implementation of ratified international treaties." This is what the creators of this constitution, the first Slovenian constitution, the masters of the Constitution actually had in mind at the stage of the creation of this constitution that the content going to the referendum should be limited. Of course, they had an unfortunate hand or made a primary school error that either they did not include these contents in the very contents of the Constitution in article 90 or they did not do anything else that the Constitution did not actually refer to this possibility in the law governing it. And, of course, the Constitutional Court could easily repeal this provision by a decision of the Constitutional Court of 19. 1. 1995. I am talking about the fact that the drafters of the Constitution, the original constitution, did not seem to be disputed that the content which should not be subject to human judgment at the referendum should not be limited. And if this provision were written directly in the Constitution or a reference to the law, of course, the last twenty years would have been arranged in the same way as other developed countries, where there is no problem with limiting these content. This moment we can only correct this mistake, if we can call it the 1991 master of the Constitution, 1992 and introduce this provision into the constitution, where it is her place to actually do what they knew at the time and thought it was necessary to do so. Whether these contents have been correctly formulated sufficiently precisely, I think we do not need to define this at this time, because, however, these will be constitutional experts in the stage of the follow-up process and we will all agree on precise formulations and we will also write such a formulation into the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Today, it has been heard many times that they have wanted to make this change in the past, but they have never taken the first or more important steps. Yesterday I was talking about what people are thinking about the referendum. I agree with those who say that public opinion is favourable to these changes. People simply want us to change things in this area. Now I would like to make it public and clear how I look at certain points that are changing. In some ways, it is true that we limit in our own way these suggestions to individuals or groups. In any case, qualified candidates can be people, saying 40,000 voters. I am thinking personally, and I am sure that the Group of Members and the Council of State must not be a candidate for the referendum. As far as the quorum is concerned, when we are talking about the validity of 35% of voters, I must say that I have received a letter from some civilian groups that have a lot of membership and even propose a higher threshold – 45%. Most voters are also required for at least one quarter of the voters to have the referendum in place. I think that this matter is somehow within the limits of normal, if we want to make this happen in some way. Content limitation of the legislative referendum. Here I must say that I have no concern at the point where it speaks of human rights and fundamental freedoms. As for the defence of the country, security, the removal of the consequences of natural disasters, I also have no concerns. Of course, in the two points that I will now mention, I have some concerns. These are laws on taxes, customs, other compulsory taxes, laws on which the implementation of the budget is indisputably dependent, and laws that have an impact on other public financial expenditure or guarantees. And here, as I mentioned before, is my partial thought. Given that financial laws can have a strong impact on the social situation of citizens, I am also thinking that it is possible to define in more concrete terms what are the laws that we need to exempt or leave them in this context. I would also like to point out that I would like all those who agreed to go into these changes not to change their minds at the last minute. To suggest that some of the previously hot advocates have simply begun to feel a desire for some changes due to some political thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Joseph Horvat has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We must all be aware that this is an extremely sensitive change in the Constitution when we talk about the constitutional provisions relating to the referendum, which is actually a tool of direct democracy. This is an extremely sensitive change to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in this context I would not like to make any mistake. I think one of them already happened. For I, like you, my fellow Members and colleagues, receive many letters where certain civil society, individuals, and so on, complain because they have not received a word at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission. Otherwise, I am not a member of this committee, but I think that it would be possible to give my word in spite of all this, and that civil initiatives or various civil initiatives at the meetings of the Constitutional Commission are clearly articulating their demands. I don't think we should be sorry for this time. Allow me to read just one paragraph from the letter of the Civil Initiative for the Family and Children's Rights, which says: "Dear Members and Members, in the Civil Initiative for Family and Children's Rights we see two essential meanings of the referendum. The first is the possibility of rejecting bad laws adopted by political elites if they do not have the support of people. This is very important, for bad laws can do much damage, and it is only right that this harm, if people recognize it at the right time, is also prevented. In some ways, however, even the importance of the referendum is that the referendum promotes the power of social and social dialogue." The end of paragraph 1 of this letter. I call for the attention of civil society to be paid to this process of constitutional change. As in other parliamentary and probably extra-parliamentary parties and professional circles in Novi Slovenija, we believe that the current Slovenian referendum regime is inadequate, as it allows abuse due to its laxness and, above all, tactical delay and blockade in the adoption and enforcement of legislation. Therefore, change is necessary and even necessary for normal legislative activity. However, not any change, but one that would preserve the legitimate use and validity of the legislative referendum, while limiting the possibility of abuse. Up to this point, we are probably all united, so at least I understood the presentation of the views of the members of the groups. So the diagnosis is actually somehow uniform. With the first restriction, this is the deletion of a third of the members of the National Assembly and the entire State Council from a range of eligible applicants, of course we agree, because the National Assembly and the Council, as the establishment of representative democracy, have already established their role in the legislative process, as they do before the referendum comes into effect as a tool of direct democracy. Yesterday we also discussed a lot about the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, and it seems more reasonable and fair to prevent the use of the referendum for political abuse at the very beginning, that is, in collecting signatures for the initiative. As you know, we signed under a bill proposing a compromise to require 5,000 from the current 2 000 500 signatures, but this is a matter of discussion, 5,000 certified signatures, which would then be taken into account when collecting 40,000 signatures for the request. In order for such a meeting to be successful, the proposed theme of the referendum should indeed be very important and convincingly presented and the initiator should make a great effort to organise the meeting well and efficiently. These two would already be sufficient to prevent easy political abuses and unjustified legislative blockades. In my conclusion, only citizens and citizens would like to be clearly reminded of the following. If the exclusive reason for the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum on the ratification laws of international treaties is adopted, of course, a referendum will not be allowed on some very important international issues for Slovenia. I will not list them here, not on purpose, but I just want to make this information clear to the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. She asked the Magi's proposer for her word. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Only in the temple of democracy, honourable Member Horvath is freedom of speech in the first place. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that we have voted on the Constitutional Commission – which, as representatives of the public, has participated in quite a nice number of representatives of civil organisations in order to hear their word – and have organised a public presentation of the opinions that took place in this Chamber. I cannot therefore agree with the fact that freedom of speech has been limited, but certainly your initiative is on-the-spot and as a first-signed promise that I will take my stand or that we will decide together as members of the Commission whether the representatives of civil organisations will also be given the floor at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter has the floor to prepare Mr. Boyan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will support the initiation of a procedure to amend the Constitution for two basic reasons. With regard to this procedure of amendment to Article 90, a public presentation of the opinions was organised in the National Assembly, and at that time all those who have relevant views and have already discussed them with regard to the amendment of the referendum legislation had the opportunity to say what they thought about the proposed amendments. Secondly, as an expert group was involved in the preparation of this text. I believe that the text that is prepared is the smallest common denominator of very different views. Now, in my presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups or individuals, I have already heard reservations about individual arrangements on where, in particular, the content restrictions should be omitted if someone were to support such a position. I'll tell you what's important to me. It is essential to me that the referendum cannot be declared on human rights. This is based on experience. The whole text goes to the referendum, and not only did it happen once, according to the findings of the referendum and that the referendum refused, for example, that only after the rejection of the law did people be surprised, disappointed or indignant about what we had actually rejected with the referendum. I am going specifically to the Family Code or, say, a referendum on deleted or a referendum on medical assistance in fertilisation. These are fundamental issues related to the individual's value system, but if the individual's value system by allowing others to enforce their value system is not compromised, they should allow such opportunities to be enforced. That's why I'd only point to one more thing. Despite the dissatisfaction that has now come from civil society with the view that this is a limitation of the civil initiative, I would like to draw attention to another phenomenon. Participation in referendums is relatively low. It is also often evident that policy puts decisions on people's shoulders. Politics has now been excluded from the referendum, and people are still given the opportunity to request a referendum, which I think is fine, and I also support the rejection type of referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. There's been a change. Instead of Mr Bojan Starman, Mrs Kristina Valenčič now has the word to prepare the mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. My colleague Bojan will find it difficult to replace him because of his larger political mileage, and allow me to think briefly on my part. I myself will support the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 90 of the Constitution. Every democratic society is based on democratic elections. This is how voters have the opportunity to influence decision-making and integration into democratic life. And it is the referendum that makes it possible for voters to do so. Unfortunately, our practice has shown that the referendum has turned into a political tool and that a minority is deciding on the rights of the majority. A colleague also spoke about specific cases in front of me. I therefore support the return of the referendum to the people and the removal of politics. I also support a clearer definition of the content of the referendum. The markedly low participation in the referendums so far shows that people cannot or do not want to decide on vague or overly complicated issues or very difficult professional content. We will achieve the right purpose when people decide at the referendum on the issues and content they are interested in. To that end, we must raise awareness of people and, above all, change the political culture. What I personally find most worrying is that we have lost confidence in Slovenia – the confidence of voters in politics, trust in the institutions of the country, trust in each other. Therefore, as soon as possible, we must all come to know for ourselves that every human being is a value. Let me conclude with the thoughts expressed at this meeting by the Ombudsman: "The way to a better and fairer society is only through mutual respect and the preservation of human dignity." And it is in our deliberations and actions that we must show this to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Get Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to point out two things in particular, because I do not think they are sufficiently clearly presented in public. First of all, we are starting a constitutional change process today, not that anything will be definitively adopted today. And secondly, obviously, we politicians have not said very loudly that no right is taken with these proposed changes to people. Politicians will limit themselves, which is the only right thing to do, and people are left with the same rights as they were today. Even in numbers, if I say so: for the start of the procedure, the referendum itself remains the same. Right now, we're not changing anything. And we're not taking anything definitive today. The expert commission will also have much work to do on the questions posed by Positive Slovenia on the Constitutional Commission to answer all these questions in a satisfactory manner. The fact is, in the past, the referendum was used for political purposes and that a number of laws that were not enforced in the referendum or referendum because of the rejection of it by the people at the referendum were rejected because people voted against the then ruling politicians or the government. And that can't be right. In short, the referendum should be really debated and then decided on the content of the law, not because the law was passed by a coalition and is rejected by people who do not think so and not because of the content itself. However, the fact is that it was not possible to present all the referendums today. Just about a month ago, when the Constitutional Court ruled that the two referendums would be unconstitutional or would not allow the two referenda to be held. Finally, just one more time: we are not making a final decision today. And I hope we'll say it loud enough for people to understand. Secondly, we do not take any rights from people with these proposed changes. We'll take the right to start a referendum on our own.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Let's get the mags ready. Diane Jedhan. I see that Mrs. Marjane Kotnik Poropat is gone, so she has the word mag. Diane Jedhan. Let's get Mr. Jakob President ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u38	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members! I will support the initiation of the procedure myself, because I think it is wrong that the referendum uses political elites if it is in opposition to force the government. I have a lot of experience with this as a former minister. Even if I look on the other side of Parliament, I remember what these experiences looked like. It is also not right that in Slovenia the referendum can succeed if only one, two or three citizens come to vote or surround the list. I therefore strongly support some kind of introduction of the quorum. At the core points, the restrictions on the referendum, it is clear, however, that they are the most important human rights for me. What I want to say is this. From the debate of some coalition parties today, I am beginning to note that this change obviously does not follow a happy path to the future, because they are once again reacting to some exclusions, as if they are going back to the opposition, so that I do not believe that you really intend to support what you have in some way even proposed. Unlike you, you may have noticed, the Social Democrats have proposed a change when we were in the government, we are proposing it now that we are in the opposition, and we are not changing our positions from day to day, unlike many others in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor to prepare the mag. Ivan Vogrin and Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This issue is also raised several times after various forums and media to limit citizens' and citizens' decision-making rights, but, on the other hand, at each referendum that has been held in the past, we have always listened to where we are, why we do not decide where we need to decide, but not to put every matter at the referendum. It may also be due to the experience that some things have been at the referendum in recent years, which certainly do not belong to the referendum and which certainly are extremely large majority of people are absolutely not interested in anything but being touched by these people. This is certainly the reason why, as regards the referendum legislation or the amendment of the Constitution in this area, there is also a need to say and adopt a positive change. I absolutely support the fact that those we decide about matters cannot be proposing referendums. In particular, the applicants should be citizens and citizens, with an appropriate number of signatures at the appropriate time, which the law should also address, is, of course, linked to yesterday's debate on this law. With regard to the content of the referendum or those matters which do not belong to the referendum. As far as I know, in any of the laws we do not have this fixed, which is foreign, which is a normal practice abroad. In foreign countries, in other democracies, they have written which things do not belong to the referendum, and it is certainly necessary for us to define this in some way. And I will not repeat that these things, which certainly do not belong to the defence of the state, the security or the resolution of the consequences of natural disasters, certainly does not belong to the referendum. A sensitive area is also where the relevant laws abolish the anti-constitutional provisions or coordinate the National Assembly with a decision of the Constitutional Court. This is, of course, a large space for the possibility of stretching this provision or this decision of the Constitutional Court, where a decision of the Constitutional Court sometimes results in a thorough amendment of any law. This is a sensitive topic which we must resolve further if a green light is to be given to continue the procedure. Similarly, the sensitive area is the so-called financial laws, tax laws and so on, because it is clear that many of the laws adopted by this national assembly in one way or another affect other everyday matters that we all citizens feel every day, including social problems and so on. As regards the various restrictions and the percentages of these quorums around the validity of the referendum decisions, I absolutely agree with the opinion given by our group leader as the opinion of the parliamentary group, and I do not wish to murder this assembly here. I agree with that, and I won't say that again. I would like to stress that I will support this proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure and also try to enable us to talk and work further with my voice. I believe that with considerable consideration we can come to this two-thirds support and allow this constitutional change process to continue. However, I would also like to point out that, in previous mandates, I actively participated as a representative of the parliamentary group in such debates and in the working groups of the National Assembly, and also expected a majority agreement, which unfortunately never happened. Of course I hope it'll be different this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. I see that this moment is not in the Chamber, Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor to prepare Mr Matevž Frangež. Ah, there has been one change, instead of Mr Jerk Čehovin, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič now has the word to prepare Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u42	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Today, when we talk about the opening of a constitutional change procedure, I am at one big crossroads on how to decide when we vote, because the referendum is a result of the powerlessness, incompetence and failure to accept the responsibility of politicians to seek compromises for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. The referendum is only a result of the poor conduct of politicians in the past and the exploitation of the policy of this very important institute. The referendum is a key institution of democracy and the right of the people, which in fact also has power under Article 3 of the Constitution, is not so correct as to restrict the people when politics loses its compass or misses its course and does not behave as promised in the pre-election period. Any different conduct of politicians, Members and Members from the pre-election promises and programmes presented to the voters and voters in the elections is the issue of elections and voters. However, given the fact that this institution of the referendum is so often exploited and represents manipulation of a number of manoeuvres of such or different political options, which are either in power or in opposition, I think it is right to support the initiation of a procedure in which politicians, Members and Members in particular are prevented from taking advantage of the institution of the referendum. As we agree at the final stage on what positions, what limitations or no limits we will accept, we will see in the next step. Today, I see that some of you who have discussed are holding figs in your pocket or are already predicting that you may be in opposition someday, and you will benefit from the current regime. The current regime is too loose, allowing politicians, Members and Members in particular to play this institution of referendum. Personally, I have been very much on the side of the unchangeable constitution, everyone says that the constitution changes with a shivering hand, everyone says that the substantive limitations of the referendums of electorates and voters must not be touched, but in practice this is not the case. In practice, there have been various manipulations, exploitation of the Constitution, and I have decided today, after careful consideration, that I will continue the process of amending the Constitution mainly in the part where manipulation is prevented, support, but will not support those parts that restrict or prevent human initiative and freedom that when politics fails, action and launch a referendum when absolutely necessary. Especially when human rights are violated or when rights are violated for those groups that are the weakest in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor to prepare the mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u44	Respected and respected! I think today's decision is very important. Let me start by saying that I will support the initiation of the procedure, but not because I would unwittingly support the text that is on the table today. I have problems with this text, and I'll tell you why. Because I think it prefers form to content. It discusses laws that cannot be implemented by the referendum instead of referring to the consequences that should be excluded as possible consequences of the referendum. And in this respect, I should be very specific and expect that the expert committee and the Constitutional Commission will carefully examine the proposals from today's debate if we want to vote on the necessary constitutional changes at the end of this process. Human rights are a question for me that is worth considering. I take note of the position of the expert commission, while stressing that I think it is unacceptable that the majority of fundamental human rights are spoken of, that the rights of the minority are spoken of by the majority. This is a democratic standard that we must adopt in society. I myself believe that Article 90 of the Constitution should, after the conclusion of this procedure, read as follows: 'The referendum cannot be declared, or admissible, on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, security or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters', this is by the way a point which has also been unfavourably supported by the expert commission, 'on laws whose refusal would pose a direct threat to the financial stability of the State and which would make it impossible to secure the financing of the State budget and other public finances'. So very clearly linked to the consequences, to some constitutionally secured objective, this is financial stability, this is the normal implementation of the budget, not the form of tax laws or the law on the implementation of the state budget. So let's give priority to content, to the consequences that we want to avoid, not to the formulation of the name of the law. Furthermore, "on the laws on the ratification of international treaties whose rejection would directly threaten international stability, peace and security or the reputation of the State and with which the same values as those protected by this Constitution are established in the international community". I think that a serious restriction on the possibility of a referendum is at the same time for all international treaties. It is worth mentioning that the international treaties adopted by the Republic of Slovenia bind this country directly and that such a general formulation – which all international treaties, in this respect, is unsustainable. Let me remind you that our approach to the European Union was also an international treaty and that it was an international referendum and that people then decided wisely that we wanted to be part of the European Union. Furthermore, "the laws by which the found unconstitutionality is strictly eliminated". In this respect, a good example can be said, for example, in a referendum rejected by the Law on Pensions and Disability Law, which, among other things, abolished some of the constitutionalities found. Following the wording on the table today, therefore, it would mean that it is not possible to present a full-law referendum, even if it is only in one of the hundreds of articles that eliminates some found unconstitutionality. In this respect, it seems crucial that, if we are serious about this change, we seriously weigh two values, on the one hand, some of the constitutionally protected goals that we want to achieve as a community – stability, progress, development – and on the other hand the constitutional principle that always comes first in this respect: that in Slovenia the authority of the people has power. If we are serious about restrictions, we need to be very, very precise. What happened before the Constitutional Court banned a referendum on a bad bank and holding company? On the basis of the Constitution now in force, respected and respected, we see that the scope of interpretation can be very, very broad and I think that this interpretation must narrow down to the immediate harmful consequences for the country. Get things out of shape and focus on what we don't want as a community. In this regard, I propose that the expert commission and the Constitutional Commission seriously consider another additional paragraph of this Article, which would read as follows: "The Constitutional Court is obliged, in assessing the inadmissibility of the referendum referred to in the preceding paragraph, to strictly assess the direct threat to the constitutionally protected objectives referred to in the preceding paragraph and by its decisions to implement the principle that the authority of the people is in Slovenia." If the shift of thought on the changes goes to this amendment, I will also support constitutional changes at the end of this procedure. In this social climate, when people demand more direct democracy, and I believe that because I believe that democracy is not only that we go to the elections once every four years and give a mandate to manage common matters. Direct democracy means that we all want to participate together in the creation of a common, in the management of this country and our community. And I believe we're here today to make it possible for people. On the other hand, with great precision, when dealing with the material of the Constitution, we judge what we must not prohibit if we want to remain a democratic state and a country that lives on the principle that the people have power in Slovenia. So the content of the form, the precise objective that the Constitution protects, human rights, financial stability, the elimination of unconstitutionality. The direct impact of the rejection must be such that it directly threatens a constitutionally secured objective and causes a harmful effect and, in particular, the duty and responsibility of the Constitutional Court to weigh carefully between legitimate and constitutionally secured objectives on the one hand and to determine, on the other hand, that the authority of the people in Slovenia has power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Starman. You're giving up the word. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u47	Excuse me. He would've been followed by Dragutin Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u48	I believe that some of the interventions to the Constitution are necessary. I would also personally support some broader interventions, from the preamble itself to some other things that would update our constitution and also make some real social changes visible in Slovenia in the Constitution. But at this point, these changes that we have are on the agenda. I must say, myself, as far as political restraint is concerned, that we probably have such an opposition in Parliament right now, which is aware that self-restraint is necessary. The question is, are we ever gonna have that again? And that's why I support it. I think that the opposition, even if we the opposition, have prevented some of the decisions taken in Parliament from a referendum, is in vain the denial of parliamentary democracy. In fact, parliamentary democracy means that most decisions are made and thus also responsibility. The democratic ban on Parliament's decisions through politics has in the past led to some ridiculous referendums. They are not only human beings, but in particular policy has produced such referendums, which have been incomprehensible to people. We also had some things that we could define as fundamental human rights at the referendum. I'm not going to give you the results that they were. On the other hand, if politics is self-limited, I think it is right to limit itself to some form of quorum. All the serious states of history know some form of quorum, which is theoretical, regardless of the fact that even the people's initiative, if it collects 40,000 signatures, the referendum must be, it can happen that only one voter can come to the referendum, and this referendum is valid. Now I'm not going to talk about this, because today we're talking about starting a referendum, where to end it, but I think it makes sense. However, as far as the 90th indent of Article 90 is concerned, I will not talk about disputes, but I must say that I do not support this exercise of 'other compulsory duties'. Let me just illustrate. Someone will remember that due to the problems of RTV, a monthly contribution of EUR 50 should be made. Aren't we supposed to have a referendum on this, too? On the other hand, someone can say, I don't know, a tourist tax will be less than €1 than we have now, €10. Maybe in the cost of spending the night, he'll pay 11 euros for camping, and we'll give him another 10 euros in tourist fees. Because of these matters, I don't really think we should leave this alone. However, as far as the budget is concerned, I personally believe that the referendum should also be allowed in the budget. Let me just say, we can reach a conclusion in Parliament that we will reduce education spending by 50% and increase the cost of weapons by 50%. Should we not also have a referendum in these cases? I think that, as far as the budget is concerned, the restriction should apply to the fact that a referendum is not only allowed on the technical law, and this is the law on the implementation of the budget. It also seems important to me that we do not always tremble at what will be the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has apparently become dependent on the current political situation or economic situation. I think it is right to also mention certain matters by burdening the Constitutional Court of Arbitration on these things which may be on slippery soils, what is allowed, what is not allowed. That's why I think this part is appropriate. Finally, it seems to me that today we must re-emphasize what has already been said that we are giving today, if we are to, the green light for the start of the procedure, not that it is already final. I think there will be a lot of talk about this, and I think that some relations in society and even in Parliament will change. But given that virtually all policy has so far found that some changes to the Constitution are necessary, I will also support the initiation of the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Instead of Dragutin Matthew, he has the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u51	One second, I always forget that because things change a little bit. Mr. Pukšič would be next, then Dr. Andrej Črnak Mgleč.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u52	In Dr. Lovra Šturma's book The division of power, this is a textbook of constitutional law, you will find an interesting thought, which is very relevant today: "The referendum is the only effective restriction of power under the conditions of the parliamentary system, the conditions of the proportional electoral system and the regulation of parliamentaryism as Slovenia has." On the other hand, the referendum is what this country created – as it was created on the basis of plebiscite – on the basis of the referendum it entered international associations, the European Union and NATO. This is very much respected everywhere, as we are referred to in NATO today as an example of democratic regulation, a positive example precisely because of the people's decision. The referendum is therefore a value or should be a value in Slovenia – sometimes we ourselves are not aware of it – which is valued by even more abroad than we are ourselves and, on the other hand, is an effective limitation of power. Of course, there is always a problem in Slovenia when we do too much in our own way. And the problem with the referendum in Slovenia was that it was always abused on the one hand and on the other hand it did not respect, which is in fact a form of abuse, so that it could be put into one sentence. Almost every referendum decision has tried to make it either difficult or play or simply failed to respect it. Let me just start with the people's decision on the majority electoral system. Suddenly, the three referendums were a cross-vote, when the Constitutional Court decided not to do so, what had been done, played with a change of rules, and finally, when the Constitutional Court decided that it was necessary to respect what was the obvious majority decision, but rather to change the constitution. In Slovenia, we work with the referendum as a value, and in practice, it has been used many times for a number of other things. There has been even a moment to the point, just in the last period when we could, through a referendum, stop for Slovenia, although so urgently needed economic reforms that are not only required by our economy, which is needed for a more efficient economy, but also by the international community. At the last minute, it was not the Constitutional Court and it prohibited certain referendums. It was simply a matter of weighing values, as is always the case with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And that was one of the most plausible decisions of the Constitutional Court in the last period. Today, however, there is a dilemma about what to do to open the way to a change that would take all of this into account. Whether this is before us or not, I leave it to you and constitutional law. Personally, I must say that only one thing is necessary in order to stop the abuse of the referendum in order for the physical, procedural decision to be taken, away from the legislative procedure, the possibility of the referendum itself. There is a regulation that is perfect from this point of view, that is the Swiss model of the referendum, that no one can stop a legislative process with that, no one can prevent the adoption of the necessary laws. The law applies if the people prepare an anti-proposal, if they can put an anti-proposal parliament and decide A or B, but there is never any legal void. There's always a law here, it's always possible to act in emergencies. The state economy, Switzerland is in itself proof, it is never in trouble. Why were these models no longer to be discussed during this period? I have repeatedly warned them, and I have often offered a Swiss model of referendum at different levels, different conversations. I have to say this in person. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Franz Pukšič did not make it to the hall. Followed by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič and then Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will also support the opening of a debate on the amendment of the Constitution in relation to the referendum regime. The main reason is that I believe that the referendum is primarily a means to be held in the hands of the people and not a policy. We have often been faced with the fact that a policy that was unable to put its position into effect in the parliamentary process was then misused for somehow bringing things to the referendum, at the minimum percentage for which the consensus of those who attended the referendum was then reached. The first purpose of these changes that we want to make is to put this tool back in the hands of the people. The second thing I strongly advocate is that in certain areas the content should not be decided on in a referendum. In particular, the Social Democrats highlighted the areas or content relating to human rights. Too many times in history, this has been misused, for most have taken rights to the minority. We therefore advocate such a dictatorship, which will also regulate this content more precisely and will not allow the abuse of every single majority to go against the minority. However, the third thing is, of course, mainly related to financial content. I agree with those who say that we still need to have a thorough debate in these areas. I would therefore welcome the initiative to expand the debate by including civil society in the debate on content itself. The fact is that we have reached a certain consensus in politics and, on the other hand, civil society is saying that it is not entirely satisfied with what we have agreed here. I do not think that further dialogue can harm and can lead to decisions that will lead to a greater degree of consensus. As I say, I will support the initiation of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, then Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I don't think we need 30 MEPs or more in Slovenia than we did in the 2004-2008 term. At that time, the referendum on the provinces proposed by the ruling coalition Janez Janša decided on this referendum, and only 11% of the people came to the vote and the law on the provinces, with a large majority, was rejected. It is therefore right that there should be a sufficient number of voters and voters at the referendums, such as the referendum on the arbitration agreement, which was attended by about 42 or more citizens and citizens, as much as the election of the President of the Republic of Slovenia last year. This is already a decent number to say that we can make such a decision at elections or at a referendum in general. Well, when I looked at how the parties, those who are here today in the National Assembly and also some who have not been included, were assigned to this institute before the State Elections at the end of 2011, I read a little after the daily newspaper and looked at these electoral programmes of the parties, it was actually clear that if any thing in this term would have the opportunity to change it in the constitution, it was a decision on the referendums. Only the Slovenian Democratic Party and DeSUS did not mention such changes from the parties to which the public polls then announced their entry into parliament. This is clear for the SDS, because the most successful referendums against the reform measures of the Pahor government were probably held back in these pre-election forecasts, especially because they hoped that they would win the elections and could be hampered by referendums in their policies, which in fact some statements also made to feel. Then I looked at the position before the elections. A party of the Social Democrats to which I belong, before the elections, said that a referendum could only be signed if it required at least 40,000 voters to hold the referendum, and a third or at least one-quarter of the electoral beneficiaries should attend it. So our party before the elections. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia then said that the referendum would be valid if it were attended by at least 40% of voters and that it could only be invoked at the request of 40,000 voters. Indeed, he made a similar statement at the time that a decision would be acceptable if a quarter of the votes of all voters were in favour and that the referendum could only be called for at the request of 40,000 voters. DeSUS, who was already outside the government and encouraged the referendums, for example, his champion said that the referendum would be acceptable only if key national issues were decided so that Members could even have this option. That's what the champion of DeSus wrote in the election campaign. Most importantly, as it is said, it was somehow conservative or against the changes of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And what is interesting is what the leader of the then largest opposition party, John Janša, said. Before the 2011 elections, he said, "I think most of the solutions that we adopted in Slovenia with referendums were good." Surely plebiscite was the best we had in the form of a referendum or a plebiscite decision in 1990, but I cannot agree with the pre-election opinion, as Prime Minister Janez Janša said, that most of the solutions were good. He also probably thought that the decision was good on the Super Referendum Sunday, June 2011, when Pahor's government's reform projects were rejected, that it was a good decision. Today, in 2013, I can say that this was not a good decision. Then I looked at the position of the two parties who were not parliamentary and then entered Parliament before the elections. These were the National List of Gregor Virant, which was called then, and the Positive Slovenia of Zoran Jankovic, who said that they would deprive Members of the opportunity to request a referendum and preserve the opportunity to be demanded by voters. If we look at what you promised people before the 2011 elections, it is clear that this tool must be put primarily in the hands of citizens and citizens. I think 40,000 signatures are what we could put in the constitution. We will also wait for the opinion of experts to give all the other details, from which laws can go, which must not go, how many voters must come to the referendum. It is clear, however, that the referendum wins the thing that receives more than one vote over 50%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant and then Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. When I listen to the debates, it seems to me that one thing to draw attention to is that we are today taking not only a decision to initiate a constitutional change procedure, but that there are already very precise positions on the table. So there is no great manoeuvre between the first and the second stages of the constitutional audit process. At the first stage, we decide, at the proposal of the Constitutional Commission in the National Assembly, what the text of the constitutional amendment will look like, with some possible finances that remain open. So the debates going this way, O.K., let's start the constitutional change process now, and then we'll see if we can make a deal, they're not the most appropriate. What we have been able to agree on has already been agreed upon, or we have in particular decided on the Constitutional Commission. The second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution states that in Slovenia it has authority over the people and that it executes them directly and through elections. The referendum is a correction of indirect or representative democracy and is an important institution for the exercise of human will, so I agree with those who say that constitutional changes in this area need to be taken with caution and we have also taken them very carefully. Practically all last year, we were talking at informal meetings, on the Constitutional Commission, looking for a compromise solution, and I think that we have reached a good solution in the end, at least it shows that we are actually agreeing with all parliamentary parties. The current practice of referendums has shown a number of shortcomings. It has shown that the referendum is often used not as an instrument in the hands of the people, but as a weapon in the hands of political parties for mutual political accounting and overplay. The practice showed that we had decided at the referendum whether we had decided at the referendum on a number of topics of minor importance which had no broad national significance and which had attracted a small number of voters. Even so far it was clear that we had a referendum on the provinces, which was attended by just over 10% of the voters and voters and a message from everyone else: "Let us be at peace with these referendums, do what you are paid for, take decisions in the Government and the National Assembly." Thirdly, in connection with the first problem, the referendum has sometimes been used as an instrument to block some necessary reforms for the country of urgency, and the problem of the referendum may also prove to be an inadequate allocation of responsibility. How can a government lead a policy in a responsible and consistent manner if, at every step of this policy, the opposition can throw it under the pole of the referendum? Especially when it comes to certain measures that are unpopular. There are times and situations where it is not easier than breaking the law at the referendum. If measures are taken that are unpopular, but necessary, if the government is unpopular, then the easiest thing in the world for the opposition is to collect signatures and carry out a referendum and, of course, to get it or to have it annulled. This is precisely the point he has pointed out on many occasions by the former Prime Minister, the current President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor. How should the government be responsible for leading a comprehensive, consistent public and economic policy, if it can then fall under its feet at individual points at individual steps? However, the referendums also have a number of good rewards. They are primarily viewed as an instrument in the hands of the people when the authorities make mistakes, especially when they make serious mistakes, so that people can reach out to this possibility and undermine a law that is extremely bad. In addition, the existence of the Institute of Referendum forces power to force the government into dialogue. I am a great advocate for public participation in the drafting and adoption of regulations, laws and regulations and under-laws, and the referendum has proved to be some sort of compulsion in the past for the government to engage in a dialogue that could otherwise have been ignored because it had to, because it was afraid of the referendum. That's good. But on the other hand, it is bad that this dialogue could have turned into blackmailing an individual social group, an individual interest group. Trade unions, for example, have pushed the government to say that these and these solutions are what we want you to accept, or we will give the marriage to a referendum, and you know very well that we will win the referendum because the government is unpopular and the measures are unpopular." It is good, then, that the threat of the referendum has brought the government to a coordinating table, but it is not bad that it has forced it to give in to whims and partial interests. With all these shortcomings before our eyes, we have sought solutions in Parliament for article 90 of the Constitution. I myself have done my best as President of Parliament and President of the Constitutional Commission to try to find a common denominator for all parliamentary parties at a number of informal meetings dedicated to it. In the end, I think we have found a good compromise solution, which has shown, at least until today, that it has the necessary support. Either it does, we will see it today or we will see it later in the second phase of the constitutional audit process. In this compromise, each parliamentary party has taken some step back. Each of us would have written this proposal, if I had written it myself, slightly differently, but it is a magic of compromises to sit down and say our arguments and try to find such solutions that we would eventually agree with them all or almost all. Personally, as the National Gazette supports these constitutional changes, I support the restriction of the referendum proposal to 40,000 voters, because this means that this instrument is largely taken from the political parties and only left to citizens and citizens. I support the idea, the concept of the so-called rejection referendum, which says that the law at the referendum can only fall if at least 25 per cent of all voters vote against the law. This idea immediately appeared at the beginning of informal coordination, put it on the table by Dr. Igor Kavčič, and I supported it immediately. At first, she was a little misunderstood among the political party champions; some seemed too complicated, but the more they thought about her, the more it turned out to be even better than the usual quorum, how many voters must come to the referendum. This idea – 25% of all voters – allows the outcome of the referendum to be essentially the result of two factors, the factor of participation and the factor of the vote against. You have an extremely high percentage of those who vote against the law in just 25% of their participation, let's just say that everyone votes against the law, that the law will fall. However, if participation is 50%, it is enough that one vote is more against than it is for. This is one very lucky combination of two factors, two factors: participation in the referendum and a vote against. Personally, I have the most problems with limiting content that can go to a referendum. We didn't have that in our electoral program either. I'm a little skeptical about this because I don't believe that any content is such that we can say that people aren't reasonable enough, smart enough, prudent enough to make decisions about it. Also on taxes, I think that citizens and citizens are able to make decisions, and that they would not just, on their noses, abolish certain taxes because they are aware that we have to raise money in the budget. But well, that's what we've agreed to, as a matter of fact. This is a price to pay for seeking a two-thirds consensus, this is a compromise. I must also say that this content restriction, which is now written, is not very restrictive. It talks about the necessary measures to ensure security, the defence of the state, it talks about taxes and only one law on the spending side of the budget, this is about the law on the implementation of the budget, it is more restrictive than it was at the beginning of the proposal that came from a number of Social Democrats. But in the end, you also agreed with this somewhat more restrictive version of the Social Democrats. Some small remained open to the second phase, so also this sixth point of view, which opens up this room of manoeuvre for the expert group to consider some other issues. Specifically, two questions or maybe even three. One question is the compulsory public benefits. I don't think there's gonna be any big problems with that. All we have to pay by law, whether it be tax, customs or RTV contribution, is such a compulsory duty. Another open issue is the issue of potential abuses by the government and Parliament. What kind? For example, in a law containing 300 articles and regulating everything possible, let us put in one provision that falls under the limitations of the new amended article 90, for example, to eliminate an unconstitutional situation. Is that enough to stop the referendum? I must say that here I trust the Constitutional Court, which has also in practice put itself in the position that if the abolition of the anti-constitutional situation is only one non-essential, minor, insignificant part of the law, this in itself cannot be the reason for banning the referendum. And the third question that remains open is what room for manoeuvre will we leave to the Constitutional Court in its decision on the admissibility of the referendum. In the past, the Constitutional Court has developed two different doctrines and in some cases used one and in others. One doctrine is narrower and says that a referendum can only be prohibited when the law eliminates an existing anti-constitutional situation. The second doctrine he used now in the last case in the SDH referendums and the bad bank is much broader. Following this second doctrine, the Constitutional Court weighs constitutional values, on the one hand an intervention into the right of referendum, on the other hand an intervention into other rights under the Constitution which could be affected by the referendum, is a much broader concept. Here, in the first phase, I felt that we had avoided this issue, that we had not yet completely fallen for it, and we will have to actually focus on it before the second stage and decide what we want from the Constitutional Court. Whether we can weigh constitutional values, as I believe it did in the latter case, is another, whether we agree whether it weighs in the right way or not, but the doctrine is perfectly legitimate. Or we will narrow down this doctrine and this manoeuvre for the Constitutional Court and say, "The Constitutional Court can only prohibit a referendum when the law removes an already existing anti-constitutional situation." That's what's waiting for us. The attitude towards the referendum is good or it will show how loyal the customers are to their beliefs and promises and principles and how much they turn their coats around the wind, which is often spoken of in Slovenian politics. In Slovenia we have a strange situation, some distorted criteria of political principle and consistency, where consistency is measured by whether you are loyal to a certain leader of the so-called transitional left or to the leader of the so-called transitional right. This has nothing to do with principle and consistency. Being principled and consistent means being principled and loyal to one’s beliefs and attitudes. Like in relation to the referendum. The Citizens' List has written down its attitude to the referendum in its programme. It's all written down there, clearly, and we follow that. That was our position when we were in the coalition, that's our position now that we're in the opposition. I wonder if the same will apply to other parties, for example in the SDS you turn your views to the referendum as a sock. When you're in the opposition, the referendum is the only one that's saved, and no one can touch it. When you are in the government, you immediately change your position completely by one hundred and eighty degrees, turning three hundred and sixty degrees. And now that you are again shown that in the opposition, perhaps you will, probably, which at once, what we have just agreed, is no longer valid. So much for consistency and principle. I hope that, at least today, this agreement on the referendum compromise on Article 90 of the Constitution will hold that we will accept this today, and I hope that it will continue until the second stage of the constitutional revision process. Let's at least do something this time that we've all agreed and confirmed, take it all to the end. And I think that citizens and citizens will be happy with this, because I agree with, I think that colleague Katarina and some of the others you mentioned, of course we have some in civil society who are dissatisfied with these changes, and I hope that we will be able to convince them that these changes are not as drastic and dramatic as they may seem. But we do have, I think, a dominant public opinion, which is not favored by such extensive use of the referendum. Most people have a few referendums at the top of their heads. And that's what we're saving with this constitutional change.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakič, then Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Yesterday, I tried to convince you, especially the outgoing coalition, that the amendment of the Law on the People's Initiative is a grave attack on the rights of citizens and citizens and that it is because of this inability to communicate with civil society, ignoring the proposals of civil society and the wrong policy, and that citizens and citizens are punished for this and it is not right that, through the law on the referendum and the human initiative, we tighten the conditions for collecting signatures that are unacceptable to me. But to stress in today's debate, and I have also talked about this yesterday, it is true that the proposal to amend the constitution that we are considering today does not really affect the position of citizens and citizens when they initiate a procedure to apply for a legislative referendum. This proposal of the Constitution really foresees what has already been said today and what has been said in the pre-election campaign and then later advocated Positive Slovenia. The positive Slovenia advocated that only the people could sign a referendum, said at the request of 40,000 voters and voters, not that the National Assembly should sign it by its own decision or decision of the Group of Members, or that this referendum could be signed by the Council of State. This means that politics limits itself or allows the marriage of its constitutional powers. And if we kept calculating it, we'd keep it. And here Masha Kociper is right when he says that, in fact, at this point, parliamentary policy is giving up its most powerful tool. And it's also that there will be no misunderstanding, I'm defending this. As regards the set of laws that cannot be implemented by a referendum decision, it is indeed worth noting that our constitutional regime does not provide for such prohibitions, so often the Constitutional Court must decide on the constitutional admissibility of the invitation to a legislative referendum. Let me be allowed to say that I really support the removal of weaknesses so far, or the establishment of so-called stronger anchors to assess the Constitutional Court's possible unconstitutional consequences. But from a different angle than the previous president of the National Assembly, Mr. Virant. Although I respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, their decisions sometimes, at least in recent cases, were not the most satisfied when we speak, for example, from the family code, the holding company and so on. So it is right to make anchors and to know precisely that, according to Article 90, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, the National Assembly cannot sign a referendum and then list it. And it is most important to me, as it is to some colleagues and colleagues, that they cannot present a referendum on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other non-constitutionality. Let me end with the fact that it is the only – and anyone can say here – compromise proposals are compromise proposals, but the only problem I have personally is that this bar skips successful rejection of the law is really high. Citizens and citizens will have to raise more than 400 000 votes in order to reject the law adopted here. Let me just compare this by saying that, for example, Positive Slovenia, as the winner of the elections in recent elections, has received about 300,000 votes of support from citizens and citizens. So this bar seems too high to me, and there may still be a variant, or Comrade Virant said that there is not much possibility from the first to the second reading, but I think that we can also, together with the professional public, prepare the starting points which would convince citizens and citizens that there is nothing in the back of this change of the rejection referendum that would prevent their people's initiative. I hope we can talk about this again. Otherwise, it seems to me that this change of constitution is going in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Brultz, then Mr. Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will support the initiation of a constitutional change procedure. As has already been pointed out, the profession must now state exactly what must remain in this fiscal package, that trade unions still have the power to achieve rights through the referendum, which are mostly linked to workers and workers. This chapter will indeed have to be thoroughly reviewed so that we do not cut options with one sentence and say that this is a matter of budgeting and that there cannot be a referendum here. My colleague Tanko pointed out that there is no need to mention human rights in this package, since they are already in the constitution very widely. But at least I agree with that. See, Family Code – Constitutional Court decision and civil initiative action. We know what's at stake. What was at stake in the democratic countries of Europe was perfectly logical. And it fell. I'm afraid, for example, if we went through the Personal Assistance Act and people with disabilities asked for a referendum and the Constitutional Court could say, "This is too much for the state, the referendum is not allowed." We need to avoid that, and that's what worries me the most. The Constitutional Court – since it has not been given to God, I take their decisions, but I do not agree with them in many cases. And let them help themselves, see that now someone is washing their past there in the Constitutional Court, but from the previous regime, I don't know what, making such decisions that they like the right hand, and I don't know who else, some extreme in this country. And this change of constitution must be prevented. What are human rights, even if they cost, is a golden thing, we must not even touch them. Not the Constitutional Court, not anyone else. However, we had a number of referendums, from which we literally made fools of ourselves when we asked citizens and citizens whether we would have, say, a closing time of trade or something, because you know we wouldn't have worked on Saturdays and things like that. What is it now? They're working on a state holiday. They're working on Christmas. That's what we've achieved. The referendum, however, stood as long as it stood. But that's one of the ugliest things. Now, Madam Vice-President, whether I am abusing this pay phone, I read here on Twitter or on e-mails that some shop on the Zaloška road has written a very grave graffiti. Grafit, who says, "Christians, we slaughtered you in 1945, we will slaughter you in 2013." Since there is no other option, let us give the National Assembly, the Vice-President, anyone, a clear statement that we condemn this, that it must not come to this. Let's make this public. We probably all agree. I'm a Christian, too. What are we going to do with ourselves now? If it's a crime, it's one problem, but if it's worse, we've got the police and Gorenak, let's find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Even though you said yourself you were abusing this pay phone, I completely agree with you. I'm sure everyone else, too, is worthy of writing these convictions. Next is Mr Branko Kurnjek and then Mr Happy Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! I will support the motion to initiate the procedure mainly out of conviction, because it does not affect the rights of citizens and citizens, but interferes with the constitutional right of us politicians, who have over-exploited this right. I asked myself, "What bothers civil initiative if it doesn't interfere with their rights?" They say this is the introduction of a quorum or a more complex quorum. And I support this quorum because I find it completely unacceptable that a minority can decide on the majority. Just as I often find it unacceptable that the majority may decide on a minority in certain cases. Look, if I only remember the personalized referendums, which, in my view, also infringed on fundamental human rights, I would certainly refuse this option, so the referendum on fundamental human rights should not be allowed. Let us only remember the sad referendums on the treatment of the infertility of women and at least from my point of view also the referendum on family law. So once again, I support the proposal, but we should not be able to call for referendums on laws that interfere with fundamental human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh and then Matthew Pučnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u66	Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I would ask, we're talking today about an extremely important area that maybe, you've already said, doesn't belong at this time and it would be time to say something, but it's still time for me to use it. See, the Constitutional Court has decided two different areas in fact. If the pension law could be adopted on the one hand, it could not be adopted on the other hand. It is said that it is necessary to state very precisely where those prohibitions are or where they are not possible and what the Constitutional Court can also decide. The referendum is a tool with which citizens and citizens can say what they have not been heard. Take a look at what's going on in education now. The government did not agree or discuss with social partners or those who represent education. And what are we witnessing now? We are witnessing protests, as we say everything people are saying, without having a common position between the government and those who are working in the field of education, and perhaps us. That is why we must demand from the government, again and again, here in the National Assembly, that the government understands its task and that it speak to that stage when it says, but now it is no longer possible. And then there are only two options: whether it is a referendum or whether we say that what the government has proposed will apply and what we can then accept in Parliament. It is also about collecting signatures for a referendum on health institutions today. They're still collecting signatures. It was not an imaginary solution, and many people do not agree with this solution. If they don't get enough signatures, this solution won't be good. Therefore, it seems to me that it would be wise to think or ask those who know more than we do here in the National Assembly when we decide to do so and adopt a law such as the Law on Health Care. Above all, we should take into account whether we are careful enough and sensitive enough to what civil society says and what people say. We talked about this a lot today. I agree with everyone, actually. We have talked a lot about the professional review, the professional public, we have talked about the court, we have talked about our commission – what about civil society, what about people? Are we going to ask people here? Therefore, it would be extremely important to find an input or to get information on what people really think, what they want, and how they would like to decide at the referendums. This is what I think is important to incorporate into everything we are talking about today, which is what we are talking about here today. If we don't hear people, if we don't understand them, and if we don't understand what they're telling us, there's always going to be a repeat of what we're talking about here, and there's going to be protests in front of the National Assembly that we don't hear enough. It doesn't matter if they're used or not. The referendum is a tool with which people say they are not satisfied with what is happening here. And because of this, it seems to me that we should talk very carefully about the abuse of referendums, about the abuse of what has happened in the past, and about what we think about prohibitions. It is therefore possible to support this stage, and I will also support the process of amending the Constitution at this stage. But if we don't hear people and we don't put that in this solution, if we don't make it happen, then we're going to have 5,000 certified signatures, as we said yesterday when we talked about it. Gathering 5,000 certified signatures in six days, that's about science fiction. Anyone who has not done so has not collected signatures or arranged such a thing does not realize that it is very difficult to do so. We've set the limits. It can also be 2,000 signatures, but within six days it can be very complicated. Therefore, once again, when we are talking about civil initiative, referendums and this issue, let us be careful about changing the constitution, and it is not certain how I will vote next time. This time, I'll back you up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Matthew Pučnik and then Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I have already voted on the Constitutional Commission to initiate the constitutional change and this procedure, and I will also vote today to continue the procedure. I agree, as some say, that the Constitution should be amended with a shaking hand. We have heard this several times on the Constitutional Commission also from experts, as we have heard today. On the other hand, I believe that the constitution must be a living institution, written for people, so live and change together with a developing society. And yet our society has changed in the last 20 years. We have already had a public debate on this subject in the National Assembly. We have discussed this much in both formal and informal discussions on the Constitutional Commission and the Section of the Constitutional Commission has developed detailed content and criteria for amending Article 90 of the Constitution. I oppose the perception of civil society that this change is taking us into consideration the right of people to a referendum. On the contrary, we return the referendum to the people. The referendum remains a legitimate form of expression of human will and thus democracy is neither limited nor limited to the possibility of direct decision-making. However, we would like to believe that the abuse of the referendum on political blockades would no longer occur. That is why I would like to express my support for the changes in this part of the Constitution. I support the restriction of the referendum to 40,000 voters, I support the idea of a rejection referendum, and I particularly advocate that the contents that have a short-term impact on government revenues be precisely defined and that we cannot decide on them at the referendum. From today's debate, it is clear that we still have a lot of questions open, so we have a lot of work to do in the future. That is why I would like this proposal to receive sufficient support today so that we can continue to negotiate and talk. As I said before, I will support the continuation of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, then Jasmine Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u70	It is important for us to decide whether we will allow for a clear and understandable debate on constitutional changes. What surprised me most in the whole process was that, in the debate itself on the Constitutional Commission and in a number of informal meetings, I asked one of the recognised constitutional experts and asked him the question that was the following: "Being aware that we have a recent decision by the Constitutional Court, which stopped two requests for a referendum on two different laws in which the public is asked whether it was justified or not, and I am not judging their decision, I ask you, if the amendments were adopted today as they are in fact, with these so-called anchors, would the Constitutional Court decide otherwise?" His answer was very clear: "Yes, the Constitutional Court would not prevent these two laws." I admit that I was even more confused when I heard this reply, because then I wondered, on what basis the Constitutional Court today ruled if a constitutional expert who gave me such an answer had given me. Therefore, I expect from a profession which will have to be very clear throughout the whole process, in which and in what cases it will be possible to require any law to stop it, or to reject the request for a referendum or vice versa. And if these very clear views are not cleared below, I will not support such final decisions of constitutional change. But I'm aware we need time for that. Therefore, on this occasion, I also call on the President of the Constitutional Commission not to rush forward and to lead the debate with due thought and reflection, to lead us to a very clear final decision, so that citizens and citizens and all those who today call for the end of the referendum can also participate and debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Jasmine Opec is not with us, nor is Mr Ivan Hršak. It's Masha Kociper, then Michael Prevc and then Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. I won't be long either, given that I presented our party's position at the beginning. As it is said, Positive Slovenia, as well as I myself, think that the professional solution offered by the expert commission, which deviates considerably from the original solution, is very good, the best in the history of constitutional change in this area and deserves our support in continuing the constitutional process. On the other hand, in my first address, I have pointed out that the changing constitution takes place at a really inappropriate time when outside people are calling for more direct democracy and clearly expressing their dissatisfaction with the existing system. I would also like to point out that the proposed changes, even if some of the minor conceptual concerns that have been expressed by all speakers are taken into account, can come up with a very good solution that will not limit people's exercise of their referendum rights, but will give them greater legitimacy. Today's debate noted that some of the decisions taken in the past at the referendums have not been taken into account. That's true, and with that change, we'll stop it. In the past it has been too often for the proposed referendums, which did not interest a large number of people who did not have enough support, and this was many times also an excuse for the legislator not to take these changes into account. With such a modified constitution, this excuse will no longer be used. I would also respond to concerns relating to point two by limiting the referendum initiative to individual laws. According to one of the most respected professors of constitutional law who participated in this Constitutional Commission, such solutions, which are contained in another point and which strictly limit when a referendum is not possible, also introduce greater predictability into our constitutional system. According to this professor, the Constitutional Court could not have ruled in recent decisions taken in relation to the referendum on bad bank and state holding, as it had decided if this constitutional amendment had already been in force at that time. I conclude that the role of direct democracy really needs to be strengthened in the future. In this direction, our party has already made concrete proposals and steps with our core charter, where we think in particular that people in Slovenia should be given a greater opportunity to co-create legislation and co-manage the country. This does not mean that people must be involved in this creation only at the end of the legislative process when the legislator has already completed his role. In this sense, I think that even individual civil initiatives are misinterpreting their role. Civil initiatives, unlike political parties who are supposed to work for the good of society as a whole, usually represent a position, a narrower area, having some narrower interests. A referendum at national level is not such a legislative referendum or a referendum after the completion of the legislative procedure is not a suitable tool to pursue such minority interests in the sense of a narrower interest. In any case, it is a tool that allows minorities to expose their wishes to their demands, to demand their rights, and then to decide on it in accordance with democratic principles by the majority. So I also hope that all those who demonstrate outside and listen to us will understand that the referendum is a tool that has a specific position in our constitutional order and that we are strengthening this tool with such a change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Prevec is not with us either. Mr Janko Weber is next and then the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. At this time, however, it might be possible to draw attention to the fact that we met at the last decision of the Constitutional Court when the law on the Slovenian State Holding Act and on the bad bank was being defined. At that time, it was decided not to look at the very contents of the laws and thus to give up the possibility of assessing the consequences of the content of the laws on the functioning of the State and whether, say, these consequences were such that they were even contrary to the Constitution. However, the expert group within the Constitutional Commission should consider a solution whereby, by amending the Constitution to the Constitutional Court, it could be made clear that, when determining whether or not to go to a referendum, the content of this law should also be defined. The solutions and all the procedures we have within this would therefore be much simpler. In the Group of Social Democrats, we also decided, on the basis of an official communication from the Constitutional Court that it did not look at the content of the Holding and Bad Bank Act, to submit a request to enable the Constitutional Court to determine the content. Thus, we are aware that we need 30 signatures to do so and that not everything is in our power, but we have tried to crystallize, to clear up issues that are very understandable and, above all, point to the fact that the financial and economic crisis will not be successfully resolved in Slovenia, and especially not to determine the sufficient amount of resources in the state budget if the assets amounting to EUR 12 billion are transferred to the holding company. This is one serious issue that the Constitutional Court has not examined at this stage, and in fact it shows that even the euro of these 12 billion euros, if we decided today to sell everything, would in fact be the revenue of the budget under current legislation. It won't be tomorrow. And this is a very serious question that I think the Constitutional Court should have resolved before deciding whether or not to ban the referendum. Thus, this free judgement of the Constitutional Court is indeed one of the very open issues, to which the Constitutional Court simply points out that it needs a framework to which it must then be bound when deciding how it will act. If I try to narrow down the warnings of individual parliamentary groups that have debated today or that of Members and Members who have discussed the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution, it appears already that there are different thoughts about what conditions someone would be willing to support a certain amendment. It is therefore difficult to predict at this stage when we will reach the end of this process. I think that we should really allow sufficient time, in particular, to this section, to study today's debate in detail and also everything that has already been exposed to this stage of constitutional change as what would be important to write down in this article and then to continue the procedure with very clear starting points for all those who would be willing to provide that two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, which is necessary for this question of the referendum, which, according to all constitutional lawyers in Slovenia, has not really been sufficiently cleared at the moment our constitution was formed and when we started our path of independence. It would be wise, however, to try, on the basis of all the experience in the history of independent Slovenia in this constitutional area, to take a step forward and to prepare solutions that will ensure greater legal certainty for all, both individuals and economic companies, because this moment is really all too often faced with the fact that everything depends on how the Constitutional Court decides how the referendum will decide the minimum majority on a question. This creates a very high degree of uncertainty and an environment in which it is not possible to draw a long-term solution and thus follow all this, [[sign for the end of the debate]] We all like to talk about doing everything we need to do to ensure that life in Slovenia is safe, stable, secure social security and that, above all, the economy can function normally. So, yeah. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u75	More mag. Katarina Hotchevar on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Let me first of all stress that I want to see such constructive and professional discussions that we have held today in the future. However, let me comment on some of the issues raised in the public debate. First, as far as the rush is concerned. The constitutional audit procedure is prescribed and very precisely defined. And it is only that we Members have tabled this proposal on 13 September 2012 and that we are now almost in February, and we are only halfway there, that the system itself has somehow determined that the constitution is changing slowly and prudently, so I find it difficult to accept these concerns about urgency. Furthermore, I would point out what nobody has pointed out today, namely that the constitutional review referendum is determined that the amendment of the constitution at the referendum is confirmed if the majority of voters vote. Article 6 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative sets out this. In the legislative referendum, however, it is virtually possible for a minority to decide on a particular social issue. And that was also one of the reasons why the constitutional referendum should be regulated. We also have a case in Slovenia where the legislator has changed people's will. And that's why we're pushing for a raise in legitimacy. It was a trade law. People voted that stores for emergency life items were open for 10 weeks a year at most. Later, the legislator, of his own free will, changed this. He may have hoped or allowed himself to do so because only 27% of the electoral beneficiaries attended the referendum. That is why this is our initiative, because this is what we want when we raise the threshold of legitimacy that this area will actually have weight. Many debaters today spoke or expressed fear of this provision of the second paragraph of what the laws on customs, taxes and other taxes mean. Here we have a security guard in the 6th point of the position, whose time has run out for me as rapporteurs of the Constitutional Commission. We tasked the Section to further examine the guidelines from points 1 to 5 in the drafting of the text of the Constitutional Law. It is stated that the content of the terms of the law on taxes, customs and other compulsory taxes should be clearly and unequivocally defined. In fact, we give the mandate here to the section to define these concepts precisely on the Constitutional Commission and that the content of the second paragraph of Article 90 will be clear and clear. Some Members, more experienced than I have, today have expressed doubts about whether this constitutional change will lead to the end. I am even more new in politics, I hope not to be naive, but I still believe that the word also applies in politics, and that the dialogue and consensus we have shown so far in the negotiations, in the Constitutional Commission or outside the eyes of the public, will continue to do so so, even after we have discussed this in the Chamber for the second time, we will reach the two-thirds majority of Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and informs you that the decision on the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution will take place today, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, within the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or no later than 5 p.m. If the National Assembly adopts a proposal for a decision, it will immediately proceed with a debate on the draft constitutional law and on the position of the Constitutional Commission and on any amendments to the position of the Constitutional Commission, as part of the remainder of the joint time of the sent groups, the unrelated Members and the proposer. The amendments may be tabled until the end of the debate on the draft constitutional law and the views of the Constitutional Commission. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, it's a defence proposal for a law amending the law on the enforcement of public funds rights. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by a group of sixteen Members, with the first signed mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Here you go, mag. Tavš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I hope and believe that today, in the next two points, we will be joined by a minister or someone from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. If I start with the introduction, why did the Members of Positive Slovenia decide to actually make the two amendments? Allow me to speak, in fact, about two laws, about what is on the table now, and about those on the side of the next item, or about new social protection legislation. In addition to the harsh economic situation, and I believe that we all agree with this that as a result of this there are also more unemployed people, the situation in our society has also been greatly exacerbated by the new social protection legislation that came into force on 1 January 2012. In practice, this legislation has caused a kind of confusion. Today, we can read stories practically every day in the daily newspaper, and on the other hand, the new social protection legislation has made a significant contribution to the socio-economic situation of many families or households. I have received data, which, according to my assessment, are the only data which are relatively accurate, is expected to be the situation in the first nine months from which this legislation is in force, from 1 December 2011 to 1 September 2012. The number of children entitled to the child allowance decreased from 373 000 744 to 281 000 138 due to the legislation in question, which is about 92 000 fewer recipients of the child supplement. The number of recipients of State grants decreased by around 13,000 at approximately the same time, the number of recipients of monetary social assistance decreased by around 3 000 and the number of recipients of the security allowance decreased by around 70%, with the security allowance being cancelled by 12 thousand pensioners due to the burden of their assets on the receipt of the security allowance. The tightening of social protection legislation on the one hand and the tightening of the economic situation on the other undoubtedly also put greater pressure on humanitarian organisations. And here in Positive Slovenia we were prepared to listen to the warnings of humanitarian organisations that the existing social protection legislation, of course, was two laws, in practice a remarkable pressure on those beneficiaries or on households and families who could receive or receive humanitarian assistance. According to the law on the enforcement of public funds rights, financial assistance from humanitarian organisations is also included in household income in addition to subsistence allowance, child allowance, cash social assistance and social security allowance. If I fly the law myself, the law lays down in fact three conditions for when humanitarian aid is considered to be family income: when the aid is paid in the form of money, when the funds are intended for survival and when those funds exceed the minimum income fixed for a single family or household in 260 euros. In doing so, I stress that humanitarian aid is not and must not be the income of a household or family, and this is also the basic guide that has actually led us to amend existing legislation. In practice, it has happened or is happening that I can, and I will say quite hypothetically, the recipient of humanitarian aid in the form of money, but it can be EUR 500 or EUR 1000, because of this amount, is said to be due to humanitarian aid, to lose the right to financial social assistance. These or similar cases have occurred in practice, so in Positive Slovenia we are making changes to social security legislation and we are proposing that humanitarian aid is no longer counted in household income and is therefore not taken into account in determining eligibility for any social transfer. I am pleased that we have been able to reach agreement with the Minister during the debate, we have supported the harmonised proposal of the amendment and I hope, and I expect that today we will also support the proposal of both laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation of my views, or I give the floor to Alenka Jeraj, president of the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities, who considered the draft law to be the working body of the mother.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 9th session. 1. 2013 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure, which was also concluded by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The legislative and legal service examined the proposal in terms of its consistency, commented on Articles 1 and 2 and made proposals for amendments to the Committee on the basis of this. In its opinion, the Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons supported the draft law. The Committee was also informed of the Government's opinion that points 20 and 21 of Article 12(1) of the Act indirectly allow for greater transparency in the use of the so-called humanitarian aid, as if these aid were directly intended to cover, for example, the costs of eliminating the consequences of a natural disaster or, for example, to cover the cost of a child's health, the persons who provide the aid know for what purpose this was used. While the government has written that it does not support the law, in order to be better understood in both paragraphs of Article 12, it has prepared proposals for amendments. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs said that, in view of the findings that there may have been some difficulties in implementing both the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits, they had proposed amendments to both draft laws and that they supported the bill. It was also agreed that a comprehensive analysis of the implementation of both laws should be prepared, and further necessary amendments may be made further. The debate expressed the view that the issue in this area needed to be addressed as soon as possible. As I have already said, there has been in practice a misunderstanding of the content of the provisions of Article 20 and Article 12, paragraph 21, and amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the Act have been adopted after discussion by the Committee. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law in which the amendments were adopted is prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are now really moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group. Mrs Irena Tavčar, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Social Security Benefits Act lay down the conditions under which the State provides social benefits to individuals in a socially weaker situation, i.e. funds for minimum living needs at a level that makes it possible to survive. In order to remedy the alleged negative consequences arising from the original laws, the Group of Members and Members proposed deleting the points of the articles of the laws which touch on compliance with the assistance of humanitarian organisations. The Committee's amendments were proposed and adopted at the meeting of the parent committee to complement the points of dispute with a text that clearly and precisely sets out how aid is taken into account today by humanitarian organisations, so that the intentional assistance of humanitarian organisations is not taken into account as income. The amendment of the Committee, on a proposal from the Ministry, provides for a clearer definition of laws that eliminates any confusion in the legal situation of beneficiaries of dedicated assistance, humanitarian and charitable organisations. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will adopt amendments to both laws in the complementary form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Hello again! In opening, I would like to stress that we will support the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, as well as the amendment of the Law on Social Security Benefits, which has been tabled by colleagues and colleagues from the Group of Positive Slovenia. The purpose of the two proposals for amendments to social legislation is, in a substantive sense, to establish humanitarian aid for individuals and households from the types of remuneration included in the basis for the calculation of social assistance. Under the current legislation, humanitarian aid received may also affect the amount of rights granted from public funds. Despite the Minister's explanations that such cases are very few, we cannot go beyond the fact that more and more people in Slovenia are dependent on the humanitarian assistance of individuals and organisations. It is therefore necessary to allow, by amending both laws, that, by incorporating humanitarian aid into incomes, the recipients of money aid will not be threatened or that the amount of cash aid will not be reduced. We are particularly pleased that the coalition has listened to the opposition once and supported proposals on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to amend both laws by proposing compromise amendments, not as usual, simply rejecting or not supporting laws for further consideration. In this way, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, as well as the Law on Social Security Benefits, has clearly defined the way in which aid given by humanitarian organisations is included as income that is not included in the base. The text also further explains that the aid given in the form of money for which the organisation sets out the purpose of spending is not included as income. At this point, I would also like to touch on the issues that I think are extremely topical at this time. This is the issue of the reform of the social security system, which was adopted in 2010, and established in 2012. Minister Vizjak already informed the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons at the autumn budget session last year that the first analysis shows that the social welfare reform has achieved its basic objective, namely to target social transfers more targeted and that those in the worst social situation receive higher aid. It is also true that this is a very complex reform, the effects of which simply could not be fully anticipated in advance by working on paper. Therefore, in the previous mandate, Minister Svetlik announced when the social reform was adopted: "We will evaluate the situation and if there are derogations that are not in line with the planned, we will make urgent legal changes." This promise already existed at the time, there is now and it is up to us to prepare and support the necessary changes to social legislation in line with the evaluation findings. In view of the fact that Minister Vizjak has provided information that, in fact, the completions of the evaluation are just outside the door, we expect to make further changes to social legislation. As it is said, at this moment, we support this minimum change, which is, of course, absolutely necessary in both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Parliamentary Group of the National List, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u86	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members and Members, with the first signed mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, tabled a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Protection Benefits. Both proposals of the law follow the same objective, namely that the financial assistance of humanitarian organisations and charities given in the form of money is not included in the income of the socially or otherwise threatened person or his or her family members. Therefore, as this is a matter of addressing the same content, I will continue to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List on both of these proposals. The proposers have proposed deleting provisions governing which aid granted by humanitarian organisations is actually considered to be income. These provisions are intended to be unclear and may in practice cause difficulties or different treatment of beneficiaries. In the Parliamentary Group, we agree that there are anomalies and different treatments in practice, not so much in relation to those provisions of the law as with other provisions of the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which will require more extensive changes. In the National Gazette, however, we agree that the amount of censorship to be taken into account in the allocation of social transfers should not be affected by the provision of dedicated humanitarian aid. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has listened to the applicants and, at the meeting of the home committee, drafted an amendment that does not delete those provisions, but specifies precisely and clearly that the income does not include monetary assistance, given by humanitarian organisations and charitable institutions for which the organisation sets out the purpose of spending. The amendment was also adopted unanimously on the Committee. Thus, all of us once again have shown that we can work together and work together to find acceptable solutions. I wish that we were so united in today's vote and that we will also come together in the future and find acceptable solutions. We will also support both proposals in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Jana Jenko, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Good-bye to all of you! The initial purpose of the amendment of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds and the amendment of the Law on social security benefits sought by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia was to delete provisions defining the inclusion of funds received by humanitarian, disability and charitable organisations and those acting in the public interest in the field of social and health in the income of persons entitled to benefits from public funds. The dictions of the relevant articles in both laws have obviously not been clearly recorded, which in some cases would give rise to concerns about the interpretation of articles and the implementation or application in practice. In order to avoid any unequal treatment of the socially weaker and due to the correct application of the legal provisions, in accordance with the proper purpose of these articles in the basic laws, it is also more appropriate to re-write these provisions at the discretion of the DeSUS Group of Members by making them clear and unequivocal. This has already been done in dealing with both draft laws on the home labour body, where the solutions to the new directives of the articles for both laws have been unanimously adopted. The updated proposal for this Act and the Social Security Benefits Act, which is the next item in this agenda, makes it clear that the funds donated by humanitarian, health and disability organisations and charitable organisations to those who are in need are not included in the income of the beneficiary or the household, provided that the purpose of these funds has been defined for the benefit of the person or the household. Where the purpose of these grant aid or funds is not defined, these funds shall be included in the income, namely only as regards the difference between the grant received and the amount of the corresponding minimum income. The DeSUS Group will support both complementary legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The law on the exercise of rights from public funds is one of the more unfriendly laws of the former government. He has caused a great deal of outrage to the citizens, who are still addressing us today with numerous cases of injury and injustices that he has caused them. It is true that it was necessary to establish an order in the area of rights from public resources and to prevent abuses, but that a number of things were taken too quickly, without consideration and, consequently, some of the solutions were poor. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that the solution proposed in this amendment to the law will help us to interpret clearly and eliminate possible inequalities before the law, which may arise due to more relaxed provisions. In practice, there has been a misunderstanding of the content of the provisions of Article 12, paragraphs 20 and 21, of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, as well as Article 12, paragraphs 17 and 18, of the Law on Social Security Benefits, which aid granted by humanitarian organisations is actually considered to be income. The conditions for the consideration of funds by humanitarian organisations as income must be clearly and precisely defined and that is precisely what the complementary proposal of the law provides. This explicitly states that the recipient’s own income does not include aid in the form of money for which the grantor has defined the purpose of spending. This ensures that the weakest of receiving dedicated cash assistance will not be further affected by the enforcement, for example, of a child allowance. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment of both laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ms Maja Dimitrovski, Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In order to at least partially mitigate the consequences of the first applicable Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and then the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, in the Group of Positive Slovenia, we decided to proceed first to the amendment which prevented individuals or households from receiving those rights which were granted to them under this Act. In particular, in the original text, we wanted to delete the so-called humanitarian aid among the types of benefits that are taken into account as household or individual benefits in a way that would no longer affect the extent of the aid to which the State is at risk. The law on the exercise of rights from public funds lays down the types of cash receipts, subsidies and payments, the limits of income to be taken into account in the exercise of rights which depend on the material situation, the uniform way of determining the material situation, the level of certain rights from public funds and the procedure for their application. Social work centres under this Act decide on the right to the following monetary benefits: child allowance, cash social assistance, protective allowance, state scholarships. They also decide on the right to the following subsidies and payments: reduction of payment for kindergarten programmes, additional subsidies for lunches for pupils and pupils, subsidies for lunches for pupils, exemption of payments of social security services by law, contributions to the payment of funds intended for the payment or payment of allowances for family assistants, subsidies for renting a non-profit apartment, rental apartment, housing unit, commercial, rental and household housing. It has often happened that these rights have been reduced or even withdrawn for the purpose of granting humanitarian aid to an individual or a household. Therefore, in the original text, in the first paragraph of Article 12 of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, we have removed aid in the form of funds received from social or otherwise threatened persons by humanitarian organisations. The government's position was negative in its original form, but the ministry only finally listened to our warnings and proposed a supplement on the parent's working body, which clearly stated that the humanitarian aid that these organisations provide to the socially disadvantaged and does not represent livelihoods is not included in the income of the individual or the household. In our conviction that we have jointly achieved the goal in Positive Slovenia, we support the bill and we will vote in favour of its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the proposal. The decision on the proposal will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 8th agenda or, as previously said, no later than 5 p.m. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to four. Point, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the Social Security Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 16 Members and Members with the first signed mags. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u94	If you allow me not to repeat myself, it is practically the same substantive change that we had to introduce under another social protection law if we want to enact this substantive change, specifically the Social Security Benefits Act. We also delete the provision under this law that humanitarian aid granted in the form of money is included in the total income of the recipient of the household or family. What I want to stress again is that we want to follow the basic purpose of humanitarian aid, that is to protect life, prevent and alleviate suffering and preserve human dignity. If we want to pursue this objective, then it is reasonable and necessary to exclude from existing legislation the humanitarian aid granted in the form of money as the income of the family. If you allow, the comparative review also says that income does not normally include social transfers that are specifically targeted and include grants, assistance from independent humanitarian organisations and so on, only if I mention Austria. On the other hand, allow me to explain once again, because I also received several calls from representatives of individual civil associations after my mother's work, who still expressed concerns that this change might not be clear or that the recipients of monetary humanitarian aid could still be subject to humanitarian aid being included in income and that they might lose any of the rights of public funds, social transfers are said to be. Let me explain that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs on the Committee itself has made it very clear that, if the purpose of humanitarian aid is to be defined and that the purpose of humanitarian aid can also be survival, it is said that if the funds to be allocated by humanitarian organisations are to be defined in order not to include this money in the recipient's income. And what is particularly important for me and Positive Slovenia is that the means of survival after this change will no longer be subject to one of those three conditions that are now laid down in basic legislation to account for humanitarian aid in the income of the family. As soon as the purpose is set, and this is important, it is said that if survival is also the aim, then humanitarian money will not be counted in the income of the recipient. The debate, which was extremely correct both at the meeting of the Commission of the State Council and the National Assembly, showed that the two laws in place would need to be subject to these amendments as soon as possible, since both laws in practice have led to a number of anomalies. The law is unconstitutional in many respects, meaning in other words that it is the first but not the last amendment of social protection legislation. In doing so, I would like to thank you, either as a proponent or first-signed, both of you for showing that we can collectively achieve small but extremely important changes in the legislation, changes that are particularly important for those who apply this law in practice. As has already been said, the Social Security Benefits Act will clearly receive support from the Committee itself, for which I thank you once again on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u95	The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. I give the floor to the president, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you for saying that again. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 9th session. 1. Considered the draft law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed mags. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, with a proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. In essence, we brought the debate together on both laws, and after we found that there were actually problems in implementing both the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Security Benefits, an amendment was prepared by the Ministry in both proposals for laws, and we then adopted this amendment on the Committee. So the amendment to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 2 of the Act. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the complementary draft law with the amendment of the Home Committee, which provides more clearly and more precisely for Article 12, paragraph 17, and 18, of the Law on Social Security Benefits, so that humanitarian aid given in the form of money for which such organisation sets out the purpose of spending is not taken into account as income. Taking into account aid intended for survival or for the recovery of the consequences of natural disasters into account in regular income is unacceptable and it is therefore necessary to ensure, by supplementing the provision in the law, that there is no unnecessary complication and difficulty in justifying the remuneration of all those already in difficulties due to social or natural disasters and similar problems. On behalf of the parliamentary group, when adopting new social legislation in the debates in the previous term, we have warned that it is too hasty to make changes and that legislation will open up rather than solve new problems and injustices. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased that, despite the initial negative opinion, the ministry has taken a constructive approach to the proposal of the opposition Members. That is why we support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Maja Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The new law on social security benefits is a logical consequence of the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, as discussed at the previous point. The Social Security Benefits Act regulates the right to financial social assistance and the right to a security allowance, beneficiaries, eligibility conditions for monetary social assistance and a security allowance, the necessary amount, the allocation period, the method of coordination and payment and other areas relating to those two benefits. In allocating and calculating the amount of monetary social assistance or a security allowance, humanitarian aid was also included in the basic text of the law in the income of an individual or household. Since we wanted to mitigate the consequences of the implementation of social protection legislation and then of the Public Finance Balance Act, we also, in Article 12 of the Social Security Benefits Act, in the original text, removed aid in the form of money received from humanitarian or charitable organisations, taking into account the income for obtaining financial assistance or the protection allowance. The original position of the Government was also negative to the novel in question, and the competent ministry also submitted a supplement on the home working body, following the objective of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Since the supplement was adopted on the Committee and it is clearly stated today that dedicated financial assistance from humanitarian or charitable organisations is not included in the income of an individual or household, in Positive Slovenia we support the proposal for a law. It was unacceptable that in these difficult times, when people's poverty was increasing, a large number of people, due to the inadequacy of legislation, could have been helped by humanitarian organisations, as they could have been left without or reduced by the State's financial assistance. We are aware that this novelty is only the beginning of systematic regulation of this area. We are confident that, together, after the evaluation of social protection legislation, we will have to approach larger and more appropriate changes, especially as hungry people, and especially hungry children, are a disgrace to the country, which, under constitutional regulation, is also a social state. As we say, we will support the amendment of the law that we have proposed in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law amending the Law on Love in the National Assembly. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. At its 8th meeting, on 10 January 2013, the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government was considered as the home labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Janez Ribič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Messengers and Members! The adoption of decisions on higher standards of democratic elections should never be questioned, but it may be questionable to lower these standards, which could be followed by the continuation of the legislative procedure on the amendment of the electoral law to the National Assembly proposed by the Council of State. The proposed law, which had already been concluded on the home working body, provided for the possibility of re-introduction of ballot boxes, as was the case until 2007, in order to reduce the use of public funds for this purpose. Of course, the purpose of the proposer is good, but in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that rationalisation in the organisation and conduct of the elections can be achieved in other ways than by reducing the standards for the conduct of the elections. We know that international organisations, in particular the competent institutions of the OSCE, are recommending the use of transparent ballot boxes, which have been in place for us since the entry into force of the Law on Elections in the National Assembly in 2006. In our view, there should be a further step forward in the field of standards towards fully transparent ballot boxes that would ensure greater security and credible elections. However, given the current financial situation in the country, this would be somewhat unhygienic, as it is necessary to strive for the greatest possible rationalisation in this area. This is already in progress, since the storage of election boxes is already being merged with one authority, this is at the premises of the Ministry of Finance and the carrier is taking care of their transport, this is the Ministry of Defence. As I mentioned at the outset, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that lowering the standards of conduct of elections is a very sensitive area, as this can lead to a decrease in the transparency of elections and an increase in the potential for abuse, so it is necessary to proceed slowly and thoughtfully to such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and a very nice greeting to all! The legality and transparency of the elections is the fundamental principle of each democratic election. The law in force on elections to the National Assembly sets minimum standards for the conduct of elections to the National Assembly. Among other standards, it sets out a series of election boxes that must be transparent. The transparent electoral boxes prevent abuse in voters and direct and continuous control of the members of the electoral committee over the ballot box on the day of the elections. The main objective pursued by the proposal for amendments to this Act is to reduce public financial expenditure for the implementation of the elections. Such a reduction would be achieved by replacing transparent ballot boxes with cardboard boxes, which would reduce the cost of obtaining ballot boxes by about 500 000 euros for each individual election. In Novi Slovenija we advocate rational spending of public funds in elections, but not to the detriment of the legality and transparency of the elections themselves. We cannot pass the mission's report to assess the early elections of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights at the OSCE, which monitored the last elections to the National Assembly. Among other things, it assessed the legal framework for the conduct of the elections and assessed it as appropriate. For this reason, too, we are not inclined to lower the standards reached on the legality and transparency of elections. However, we are committed to further reducing the costs of purchasing, storing, unloading and cleaning these election boxes. This is the responsibility and obligation of the State Election Commission to ensure the correctness and legality of the elections, as well as the cost-effective conduct of the elections. The National Election Commission has so far taken some decisions which mean lowering costs in the field of transport and the storage of election boxes themselves. We welcome such decisions in New Slovenia. We are of the opinion that the State Election Commission will take advantage of additional options to further reduce the costs related to the election boxes. In particular, it will be necessary to ensure responsible handling and storage of transparent plastic ballot boxes in suitable places, which will not additionally burden the budget and will ensure longer use of the same boxes. Finally, electoral committees will have to take responsibility for the handling of the ballot boxes in the future, so that they remain intact and returned to the holding at the sites to be designated by the competent electoral commission. In the New Slovenia Group, we do not support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! As it is said, the draft law introduces only one change from the word "transparent election boxes" is deleted by the word "transparent", which would in practice mean that election boxes can be made from any material, by logic, of course, from the cheapest. Very few countries are aware of the legal provisions, which must be used only in France by electoral boxes and transparent electoral boxes in Europe. Most countries allow the standards and appearance of the election boxes in that country. Nor did our electoral legislation contain these provisions before 2006, but then there was an argument that in order to increase control over any abuses that have never been proven, transparent ballot boxes should be introduced. These boxes, of course, represent a significantly higher cost, with an election box cost of EUR 510 000 so far. In Positive Slovenia, we would like to point out that the transparency of the election box alone does not mean much more transparent elections. Russia also has transparent electoral boxes and is not considered the most transparent electoral system. The essence of transparent elections is elsewhere, in the presence of the media, external observers and so on. The European Commission for Democracy through Law, known as the Venice Commission, has already adopted a number of rules and codes of good practice in electoral matters, but has never mentioned electoral boxes, in particular the material they are supposed to be from. She cautioned, however, that transparent ballot boxes may present a problem if the ballots are not properly filed and the results are visible. So, as it is said, the Europe of Transparent Boxes does not know or enforce them as a rule, but the election box is a rule in some countries such as Russia, Belarus, Georgia. When we also read the OSCE election reports in these areas, we see that the problem is not where the votes are given, but who and how they are counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Pišek on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support any rationalisation of costs, so we are grateful to the State Election Commission for this calculation, for the warning of these costs and of course to the State Council that it has launched a reduction initiative or a solution. On this basis, the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice has already adopted other measures, in conjunction with other ministries and according to the information received from the Secretary of State, these costs have now been virtually eliminated by internal transfers and measures. We therefore believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that there is no need to amend legislation in this area at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I shall also inform the members and members of the Management Election Commission that the meeting of the Commission will be held in the Grand Chamber of Tomšič in 10 minutes, i.e. at 2.25 p.m. I am adjourning the 10th meeting of the Assembly, which we will continue with the vote, at 3 p.m. due to the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Continue session at 3 p.m.! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u110	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please. Wait a minute. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with paragraph 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the initiation of a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia We are moving on to a proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution. I put to the vote the following motion for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Group of Members of 13 September 2012 EPA 620/6 to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted. You want a procedural proposal? Mrs. Maja Dimitrovsky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. Under the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we want a 45-minute consultation committee in the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u112	So, 45 minutes before the decision is made, or we'll continue until the moment we decide. Before voting, I wish to inform you that a decision will be adopted in accordance with Article 2(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. Given that we will interrupt the meeting 45 minutes before the decision, let us, of course, do this part of the explanation of vote. So I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups, does any of the parliamentary groups want to explain their vote? He doesn't want to. I ask Members and Members whether they want to explain their vote. Nor do I, otherwise, impose before the vote 45 minutes of recess and continue the meeting at 15.50. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u113	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the 10th regular meeting of the National Assembly. We are at the 2nd point, which we have interrupted at the request of Positive Slovenia and which has the possibility to explain the position within three minutes, because it has asked for a break for coordination. Here you go, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. In Positive Slovenia we are working on democratic principles and we have quite a few problems with changing the constitution at such a critical moment as this, said when people on the road demonstrate and demand more direct democracy. After the discussion, however, we once again found that the proposal prepared by the expert committee was very different from the original proposal, not limiting or further stifling the referendum in terms of the applicants, but adding some additional protected cauldrons in terms of how many people must decide that the referendum was in force. It seems to us that the right that a minority may also demand that their rights be discussed and decided in a referendum is maintained, while at the same time the legitimacy of the referendum is increased by the fact that only one majority, the democratic majority, decides whether the law adopted in a democratic procedure is also repealed. Therefore, at this stage, when we are only deciding on the start of the constitutional change process in Positive Slovenia, we will generally support the initiation of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution. I shall put to the vote the following motion for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt the proposal of the Group of Members of 13. 9. 2012 EPA 620/6 to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted. Before voting, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 168(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be taken if two thirds of the Members present and Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 87 votes against 1. [[The vote was 87.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to a debate on the draft constitutional law and the position of the Constitutional Commission. Since the National Assembly has adopted a decision to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution, we are moving on to a debate on the draft constitutional law and the position of the Constitutional Commission on it. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. I'm opening an application for debate. Of course, within the time available at this point of the agenda. Two panellists have been reported. The first one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In my previous vote, I was the only one against it. I will tell you why, and also for this proposal, of course, I am not. We act like this, I'll try to say it in a parable. Let's imagine we're working in a transport company to transport people. The car doesn't work, and we're going to paint the chassis. What have we done with this? Nothing! At a time when there is negative economic growth in the state, when we have many other structural problems, we are changing the constitution and changing or trying to amend referendum legislation. Wrong! We are acting because, as one of the Members of Parliament said 10, 15 minutes ago, countries are not running politics, not ministers, but bureaucrats who have dictated the pace for about the last 20 years. We're a bureaucratic, uncreative creation. I think this is really wrong. Of course, it is easier to shift attention to changing the constitution, changing the referendum legislation, which in terms of economic growth, creating new values, creating conditions for people to live here, brings nothing. Every day we read horror stories in newspapers, Baumax withdraws from Ljubljana – who will be next? Did anyone wonder what such messages meant? Baumax is a foreign-owned company, these companies are slowly withdrawing from Slovenia. In this House, I believe that there are many politicians, Members who are not bureaucrats, and we do not fall behind in the views of the architects of the liberalised Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. In Positive Slovenia, we have repeatedly stressed that with the views drawn up by the expert committee, we are very pleased and that they represent an excellent professional proposal, probably the best we have ever had. However, there is still a number of dilemmas between citizens and voters regarding these positions, and one which we are very much reminded of now in the last day and now in the last hours before these positions are adopted, is that, according to the proposed positions, they have already set out what would be contained in an individual paragraph of the constitutional law, there is no diction by which the National Assembly is bound to the outcome of the referendum. A dictatorship now covered by Article 90, first subparagraph. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that this can be problematic regardless of the fact that it is now a second form of referendum, a rejection referendum, and that if the referendum is successful, the law is repealed. Nevertheless, our electorates and many of us among us think that the provision on the link to the outcome of the referendum could remain and then, as is the case with the legislation now, what is the form of tying up. I do not think that this provision can harm, binds us, legislators in the same way as before. As it is said, it could later be adapted to the amended form of the referendum. I would like to ask my fellow Members and colleagues to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it within the time available? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. As I note that the amendments have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the position put forward by the Constitutional Commission. Before voting, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 178 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is to say, sixty-four or more. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group before the vote? In your personal name, explain your voice? If not, then, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. 88 Members and Members are present. 84 votes against 1. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the position has been adopted. We're done with the decision. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the basis of the position adopted, the Constitutional Commission will prepare a proposal for a constitutional law and submit it for consideration to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the next item in the agenda, which is to continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, the reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group before the vote? In your personal name? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. 89 Members and Members are present. 88 votes against no one. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. The vote is under way. 89 Members and Members are present. 88 votes against no one. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative is appropriate for further consideration. In doing so, I inform you that a two-thirds majority of the votes of Members present are required to adopt the draft decision in accordance with Article 5(90) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I shall open an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Michael Prevc, first of all, has the floor to explain his vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian People's Party we will support amendments to this law. A few minutes ago, we accepted the initiation of a procedure to amend the Constitution. In the People's Party, we are pleased that this has happened, and we strongly hope that without any figurines in our pocket, and we strongly hope that we will continue to be in the process, in further discussions, in further procedures for finding compromises that will be necessary, because we have found that our opinion has not yet been finalized in certain segments because we know that we will still need strong professional assistance, that is to say, I really hope that the procedures will continue to be successful. I think it would be right if we, in parallel with these constitutional amendments, also passed this law, which is a technical law and regulates the procedures so-called pre-referendum procedures. We know from practice that the current regime allows for a number of abuses of the so-called pre-referendum procedure and in the Slovenian People's Party we are convinced that the possibility of any abuse and doubt, in particular doubts about the credibility of signatures, has occurred, of course, recently in order to eliminate the possibility that signatures should be certified. In fact, it doesn't matter how many of these signatures are, we know, in the current proposal there is a need for 2 000 500 signatures; in the proposal we have on the table, which we discussed yesterday, there is a need for 5,000 signatures. We are confident, or at least on the basis of yesterday's debate, that we are not so much on different shores, as regards this figure, that a compromise can be reached, so it would be a shame that the continuation of the agreements, the continuation of the search for compromises on these solutions, which are nevertheless important for the initiation of the referendum procedure, that this process continues and that we find a suitable solution here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, he will present an explanation of the votes of the mags. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u122	Perhaps our common point is that the beginning, the introduction to the referendum and this arrangement are not optimal. I think we can all agree on that together. With this decision today, we will not concretely cement any figures, but we will give this debate an opportunity to continue and take it forward. Therefore, all colleagues and colleagues, in particular those from the opposition, please give this opportunity to continue this debate. You don't have to cultivate any conspiracy theory, because in the end it will be you who will decide whether the number is appropriate or not. Without your votes, the final decision cannot be taken. Therefore, once again, I hope that, like the New Slovenia Group, which will support this process at this stage, you will also decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I see an interest in explaining the voice. In its name or on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you. To avoid misunderstanding why the Group of Social Democrats will not vote in favour of the continuation of the referendum and human initiative procedure, I would like to clarify that we have just completed the vote on the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution, where we have determined that the National Assembly and the Council of State are no longer among the candidates for the referendum. The Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative preserves both the National Assembly and the State Council among the proponents. In addition, the concept of a rejection referendum was adopted when amending Article 90 of the Constitution. So there will have to be a number of electives and voters who will come to the polls and reject the law if people want to reject the law. Well, the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative further limits the entry point when proceedings can begin. Do you really believe that people will believe that we do not exclude them from the decision-making game according to a constitution that allows them to form their own positions when they bring this decision to the referendum? If the entry requirement is tightened and then the condition to enforce the decision is reached, I am sure that no one who seriously thinks about these issues in Slovenia as an ordinary electorate will understand how we can accept such severe restrictions in such a short time. Once again, I would like to remind you that the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative in its history have been amended in such a way that the initial entry threshold was a thousand signatures. This later changed to 2 000 500, which means that the number of signatures for the initiation of the procedure increased by 150 %. Today we are talking about going from 2 000 500 to 5 000, even if it is 2 000 500 or 2 000, in the next process these are certified signatures, which further makes the entry threshold more difficult. We simply cannot adopt such procedures, which at the same time limit entry conditions and ultimately the percentage of voters needed to take the referendum will into account. Too much, too much and I think we are aware that this cannot be implemented in practice, so in our Group of Members we will oppose the continuation of the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their vote in their own name before the vote? I'm opening applications for explanations of vote. Five Members and Members have been notified for explanations of vote. Mag. Dean Jedhan has his first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam President. I will vote against it because the law before us shows a misunderstanding of the problem. There is no problem in this country that people, civil movements, have the right to say what they think about laws, this is absolutely necessary — even more so! The problem is that this right belongs in a rather unusual way to part of the political elite. We will now limit this right by amending the Constitution, as we have voted today. That is why this law that is before us is totally unnecessary, and in fact it shows only the misunderstanding of the problems we are in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant has the next word for explanation. You won't explain. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will open the proposal to move the parliamentary procedure forward in this law. I see from the debate that we can't actually get together around 5,000. This is our proposal, we have made it clear that we are ready to talk about this. To confirm the decision to move forward is to accept an invitation. The New Slovenia Group always responds to any invitation. Colleagues and colleagues, look, I'm giving you a purely technical case. If we cannot agree on which number is right, but we somehow agree that it would be right for the signatures to be certified, then we should make a calculation based on the so-called balanced or weighted arithmetic mean, the weighting should be the number of Members and Members in the individual parliamentary group. I think we all know this formula. Let's do the math! I calculated, for example, 47 of us signed this bill, we proposed, we just proposed, 5,000. If everyone else, 43, you suggest 2 thousand 500, the result of the weighted arithmetic mean is 3 thousand 805, but that's just an example. Let's take the formula if we don't know how to deal. Look, it's 5 grand. Whether we can unify ourselves around this number – we can only unify ourselves in further debate. So people won't tell us we don't know how to talk. They'll tell us we don't want to talk. Please, let's do this thought and choose the mathematical algorithm and figure out what it is, according to our, optimal number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Starman has the floor. No, no, no. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u130	I will vote in favour because we are not taking anything from anyone at this time, but we are giving them an opportunity and an opportunity to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 37. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 37.]] We find that the decision has not been taken. I'm sorry. I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda – the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Finance Balance. We are moving on to decide on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Balance Act is suitable for further consideration. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm asking you to sign up. Six panellists have been reported. The first one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin. Next – Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you so much for your words, Madam President! At this point, I will call on you to support the Public Finance Balance Act at first reading. This is the law we discussed yesterday, which we spent hours discussing. By means of this law, we are transforming the permanent measure of the ZUJF into a temporary measure. The basic government proposal for the Public Finance Balance Act permanently denied war veterans the right to supplementary health insurance. At this point in time, we are transforming this right into a temporary measure or a right to return, but we are binding the right on an interim period. This means that, if the law is passed, these people will receive the right to supplementary health insurance only when the gross social product growth in our country is 2.5%, which means that the law also takes account of the times of crisis. On the other hand, I will now appeal to those Members who said in their previous marriage that they were ready to accept an invitation to talk. That people won't say we don't want to talk, respectable colleagues! First reading! The marriage is at first reading. If you do not agree with certain proposals of the law, the law can be amended by consensus in the procedure below, I believe that amendments by some coalition parties can also be corrected. At this moment, my fellow Members and colleagues, I will repeat once again the words spoken by the speaker before me in the previous explanation of vote. We're not taking anything from anyone right now with this law. Nobody! This law has no financial implications for the state budget at this time, and we are giving the opportunity to discuss it further. Let us see how responsible some of us can use the words spoken in this House. In Positive Slovenia, we will absolutely support the law at first reading, not least we are co-proposers of this law. However, we feel that it is right for those who have contributed their lives to defend their homeland to be honored; and we can also show this honor by restoring them the only material right they had.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Member of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague! Yesterday we discussed the law for more than four hours, which, although we have severe financial problems in Slovenia, does not create any financial gaps in the budget. We have talked about war veterans, about fighters, about those who in the past have in some way laid the groundwork for us today to have a separate Slovenia so that we can sit in this Parliament. The basic law of the ZUJF has permanently deprived these people of some of the rights that they have earned in their work in some way in their heroic work. Let me say that it is not a social adjustment, but it is the gratitude of this country. Since this law has only four articles, let me say that the main article is that people who have contributed a great deal to having a separate Slovenia will not permanently be deprived of – that they are not entitled to health insurance, but that when the country is in better financial condition, it is said exactly when the economic growth of 2.5% of gross social product returns to those people what they deserve. That's all they're asking of this country in some way. They know that the country is in a financial crisis and are willing to live with it. Therefore, fellow Members of the Social Democrats, we ask you to let the law go into further procedure, to correct it in some way, if necessary, and to give these people their dignity back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I see interest. I'm opening up an application to explain my voice. The application shall be made. Four panellists have been reported. The first is Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u136	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think it is our duty and our obligation to all war veterans to support the continuation of the process of amending this law, to recover and correct the injustices that we have done with the adoption of the ZUJF – Law on Public Finance Balance. Here are also those affected, including those with disabilities, those who were wounded, and that took a lot. How can we do that? How can we step back? How can we interfere with the acquired rights of those who have earned it: how?Oh, my God! I also strongly protest against all those who think differently that you were capable of people who were prepared in key moments to stand up for our common and only Slovenia. Today, some are moving, today, when we're free, there are no problems, tomorrow, when we have to get back into line one, I wonder how you're going to react. At that time, you were all out of your mind, but today — no, these people need to be taken away. These people need to be given more than they can afford, so of course I will support this law, and I also urge you to do so, for the dignity of all those who have given themselves and were willing to give themselves when it was crucial at some moments of independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, I will also support this proposal for a law modifying the ZUJF in the part concerning veterans and veterans. I will support it because in part it is also the elimination of the injustices that we have committed to all these holders of these ratings. I will support it because, at present and in the immediate sense, nothing in the budget is affected, so the financial implications are not today, and they will be when our economic growth is 2.5 per cent. I will support him because I want him to stay and to maintain a very respectful attitude towards veterans and veterans, these are the people who have given our country more than the others. I would not want the ZUJF to redefine its attitude towards these people, its attitude to the past, its attitude to our history in any way. I want this rating, which, without consequences, has gone further for all veterans and veterans, as I have already said. However, in dealing with this very strongly, I am strongly focused on all the very inappropriate debates concerning veteran organisations and veterans and veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Given that we are in such a situation, economic and financial, as we are – I already said yesterday, if not, that government would have ruled for 6 years or 8 years, but not only 3 years, and I will not repeat it – it does not seem appropriate for me to support this law. At the end of the college, not to forget, more than 13 thousand, but when there was another situation, those who had so-called state pensions, just over 180 euros, were taken away, and here we are talking about 28 euros of additional health insurance for those who have more than 500 euros per family member. Let's be clear! So it's not that these 28 euros will make someone significantly worse. We have a 240-euro pension, maybe even a little too much, up to a maximum of 480. And with that, people have to survive! They don't get extra health insurance! And these are the people who have worked their whole lives! Not 40 years of work, but 50, 60 years of work, 70 years of work, and 85 years of work, they're still working to survive, because with 240 euros it's not working. Colleagues, it is time to start dealing with what will bring more economic growth, youth employment, so that young people are not burdened by these 240 euros, and so on. Please, in Positive Slovenia, if these are your two main points of the new programming government, additional insurance and the burial of Slovenian insurance, then stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u141	Here you go, Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u142	Just one sentence, Madam Vice President. I think it's an explanation for the vote to say, as a Member, how you're going to vote, but not to argue with previous governments, coalitions and so on. Mr. Franz Pukšič, if you don't have the right content, you'd better keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Diane Jedhan. I ask for order in the hall and anyone who may yet apply for an explanation, stick to the explanations of vote and this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u144	The president, of course, enjoys my support, but I would ask all the Members and Members present to consider at some point that it is Slovenia, imagine an imaginary country, such as the one that is under financial distress, and this country reduces its profit tax by 250 million euros on an annual basis and by the people who defended this country, that we are today in a country where we speak Slovenian, in a country of our own, taking what they are doing by law. With this marriage, only the injustice you've committed are we correcting. Well, please, do so!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Roman Žveglič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u146	I just want to hear Mr Han's procedural proposal because he didn't make it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Squirrel. Mr Han has procedurally warned that all Members and Members shall explain their voices in explanation of vote when they state in their name why they will vote in favour or against. He warned against controversy, addressing, persuading, or calling anyone. Once again, I am opening my application to the debate to explain the voice because the wish has been made. The first one has the word, Mr Roman Žveglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Our mouths are full of cooperation at this point, when they ask on the one hand, at the previous point of course the request was from the other side. We only want to cooperate when our proposal, when it is not our proposal, is not cooperation. I was already very exhausted in the debate yesterday, because I will not support this proposal because it is a matter of law on stock. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, you will have the opportunity to form a coalition and, of course, you will have sixty-six votes and you will be able to adopt a law that will be in force immediately and will not be in stock. I'm not going to back this up on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support the law because it restores the rights that have been unjustifiably seized. I would like to say that not only are we aware of the economic situation and economic growth in Slovenia, we have proposed that this right be exercised when economic growth or gross domestic product is again 2.5%. Let me say that the Social Democrats propose concrete solutions, including in this mandate, how to reach these 2.5% gross domestic product, and this solution is, dear colleagues and colleagues, in that we do not transfer the 12 billion assets of the Republic of Slovenia to holding, because this will no longer be the income of the budget, but will be the income of the holding company. Indeed, we have the solution on the table that from the resources that remain, that is to say that from the property that remains state-owned, we also provide money for the rights that veterans expect or have already had. So there are solutions on the table, not only will we get more money if the property of 12 billion remains in Slovenian ownership or in state ownership, but even more resources will be allocated under this law when economic growth is again 2.5%. So we do not want to act like we are just burdening the budget, but we are also proposing solutions to provide funds in the budget. Let me say that Slovenia's public debt was also among the lowest in the European Union following the expiry of the previous government's mandate. However, if it increases by four billion due to a bad bank, we will be among the most indebted countries in Europe. We warn of all of this and have the opportunity to prevent it and to guarantee to people the appropriate standard and rights that belong to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you. I will support the proposal in particular because I want to eliminate discrimination against the other groups in this same category. Another of the same in this category is getting these things and no one has answered me, including the minister, why only veterans had to do it. Moreover, as you know, these veterans give up this supplement, they do not want to take it, but they say that, like the other beneficiaries of the ZUJF, when the economic growth is again 2.5, let these rights then be effectively returned to them. That's what this is about! This means that the adoption of this law does not have any financial implications for the budget, but we all know that economic growth will not be 2.5% for at least a while. This is why it is more about giving these people back their dignity without standing before them and boasting only when we need their voices. These people have done something for this country, and I think they feel that the country is betraying them. That's what this is about! It's no problem for anyone who's wronged, for everyone, I'm willing to pay him back. It's not a question of finance, I repeat, but of honor and pride.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the decision has not been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the proposal is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO ON INTERMEDIATE ASSISTANCE IN CUSTOMS MATTERS The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 89 Members and Members present, 89 votes against none. (For the vote was 89.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on air traffic between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the State of Qatar. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 87 votes against none. (The vote was 87.)(Nobody.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the eve of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on police cooperation. The draft law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes in favour, none against. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a bill on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States on co-operation in preventing and combating serious criminal acts. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On behalf of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Italy, the Republic of Cyprus, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Portuguese Republic, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE, These ARE OFFICERS RELEVANT TEXTS, Below a confirmation of the Official Cleared Text of the Public Procurement Act, under b a confirmation of the Corrigendum to the Officially Cleared Text of the Public Finance Act. Officially purified text and correction of official purified text were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. Under point a, we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The Officially Cleared Text of the Public Procurement Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. We move under point b to decide on the following proposal for a decision: The correction of the official consolidated text of the Public Finance Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 88 votes against none. [[88 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is to deal with optional cases. Under point c, we are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the election of the Ombudsman. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed by letter of 10 January 2013 to the National Assembly that she elect Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer as the Ombudsman. I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, Ms Nataša Kovac, for an additional explanation of the proposal for election.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u154	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor to the National Council for the Ombudsman proposes to Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, a university lawyer, a state attorney and a long-standing president of the White Circle of Slovenia. In his name, let me first thank all the parliamentary groups for the opportunity you have given to the candidate to present her plans and work. In her discussion with him afterwards, she expressed satisfaction with the content of the talks and felt that there were many more common views between the members of the group than there were differences in the work of the Ombudsman. It assessed that this enabled it to take care of human rights in a way that would generate broad confidence and support for people, as well as for the institutions concerned by its work. This assessment raises an additional hope and reason for you to extend your support to her today. Mrs Nussdorfer's extremely rich biography and activities are reflected in the accompanying explanation of her candidacy. More important than that, it may be anything that cannot be described in words. The extraordinary commitment, honesty and immense life energy with which Mrs Nussdorfer spends all her free time in all years of active service voluntarily providing care and assistance to others, people in distress, victims of various kinds of violence, youth and children in distress and all, especially vulnerable groups throughout Slovenia. In short, daily direct assistance in the exercise of human rights. With many activities in the field of juvenile, family and sexual crime reduction and the prevention of domestic violence, I should mention in particular that, as long-standing president of the Association of Public Prosecutors, it is also an incentive to establish today's established society to help victims of crime, the White Ring of Slovenia, which has helped numerous victims, who, for the most part, would be left to themselves. For the last three years, he has been participating in a resounding campaign called Neodvisen.si, which, through lectures throughout the country, educates young people and parents about the addiction of all kinds. She is the initiator of the project Advocate – the voice of the child and the introduction of specially equipped rooms for a friendly hearing of children. It thus devotes at least 150 hours each month to free volunteer work. Wealthy work experience and knowledge in the professional and voluntary work of the candidate has sufficiently ensured that she will successfully, conscientiously and impartially act as the Ombudsman, not as a job, but as a mission, as she wrote herself. Its professional competence, moral integrity and work so far deserve the necessary support of MEPs and Members and allow them to support it irrespective of other different political views and definitions. The President of the Republic of Borut Pahor believes that the election of a candidate for the Ombudsman in these political circumstances and under the most difficult conditions of the quorum would give an encouraging message to our people and to the public and give the politicians confidence in making important decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which gave written reports to the assembly and submitted a proposal for a decision. The following is a presentation of the views of the members of the group. Ms Eva Irgl, Slovenian Democratic Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have an important decision before us on who will be the new Ombudsman. This is a function that is undoubtedly of paramount importance for the well-functioning of the rule of law and, above all, of a just state and society. It is the Ombudsman who is called upon to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to state authorities, local authorities and public authorities. The foundation for the establishment of the institution of the Ombudsman is 159th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The current Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenki Cebašek Travnik, is due to expire at the end of February and the President of the State, Mr Borut Pahor, has forwarded to the National Assembly the name of the candidate whom he believes he can obtain such support so that she can be confirmed as the new Ombudsman. Twenty-six candidates and candidates applied for the Ombudsman's invitation to tender. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that there were quite a few of them that could be sovereign and unburdened, especially from a political point of view, acting as a guardian. Unfortunately, the President of the State, Mr Borut Pahor, after talks with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, could only find that none of them can survive so much support that the National Assembly could also be elected. That is why he has given himself, we must say, on a rather difficult task, to find a person who will have such references, both on professional and human salaries, in order to obtain a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members and be elected for a term of six years. I do not want to go into this place, into the controversy, because it is the Ombudsman who needs such a majority of the votes, because others, for example, do not need such a majority to elect them. However, this can be a possible debate for another time, but in the media it is also partly a candidate for the Ombudsman, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer. So far, we have not had a very happy hand in choosing the Ombudsman, but even though none of them can be said that he has not done his job to the best of his ability. Of course, it is difficult to assess in advance how the Ombudsman will be cut off in his mandate, but based on past experience, we can try to find the most suitable one for such a function. There is no doubt that Mr Borut Pahor, President of the country, has an extremely difficult and challenging task. The Ombudsman must be a man of high ethical principles. One must be unburdened politically and with a strong sense of justice. The Ombudsman shall be the first person and authority in the country to exercise respect for human rights in the protection of such persons, on the basis of a Constitution, a declaration and a resolution on human rights, on the basis of international acts of the Conventions of Laws, and shall by no means be so sensitive as to affect human integrity and dignity, to decide or to judge at the discretion of such or any policy and their representatives. However, the Ombudsman must also take a clear view of current events if he detects a violation of human rights. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I must say this, we had a lot of reservations in the decision-making process concerning the candidate, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, so we have not yet made a final decision on the Mandate-Election Commission and we have abstained at that time. Since our experience in choosing one of the previous guardians has shown that the new rounds of elections usually do not bring a better candidate, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have decided, after careful consideration, that the candidate for the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, will be supported by the majority today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Representative, Representative of the President of the State, Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Since the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman in 1993 and the end of the Council for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, we have had three human rights guardians: Mr Ivan Bizjak, Mr Matjaž Hanžk and Mrs Zdenko Čebašek Travnik. Although the Ombudsman Act allows for the renewal of the mandate, so far none of the human rights defenders have. This is a very interesting detail, although one of them has also tried to repeat the mandate. Each of the guardians gave this function a personal special seal and marked the function that must intersect beyond the political. That is why the law also stipulates that the Ombudsman must be elected in the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority. The procedure with the Ombudsman is secret and free of charge. It is also informal because the guardian does not have direct executive functions. However, it is the duty of the Ombudsman to conduct the procedure impartially and to gain the views of all parties in each case. Nor can the Ombudsman be called to account for the positions he makes in his proceedings, although it can be established that this is happening several times. And that is exactly why the Ombudsman is so hard to count so that he can renew his mandate. If we choose from this general experience any other details on the basis of Ms Vlasta Nusdorfer, which we are going to decide on today, the original thesis of the candidate is important for the Group of Social Democrats. This is to see the mission of the Ombudsman, i.e. the role of the Ombudsman as a mission, not as a duty, a task or an honor. The search for rights for weaker and more assistance is necessary its long-term life experience and we are confident that it will be able to give new emphasis and new dimensions in the exercise of this function. Since we have accepted in the Group of Social Democrats everyone who has been prepared with his vision of the role of the Ombudsman to present to Members and Members before the appointment or recommendation of the President of the State, we have opened the doors of our Group of Members and listened to him, as well as to the Authority of Nusdorfer. In her lab, which she presented to us, we have found enough grips to believe that she will perform her function well. It has also justified in its public statements what will certainly be necessary at the beginning of its work; this is an introduction to those who have sufficient experience in the work of the Ombudsman so far. Let me finish this presentation with the experience of the Ombudsman, who said in her interview: "After almost six years, I can say that the legislative and executive authorities have not taken advantage of the opportunity to become better aware of the actual problems in society through the Ombudsman's observations." To the authorities of Nusdorfer, if elected as the Ombudsman, we would like to have a more kind word at the end of our term of office on how they have listened to both the legislative and executive branches of power in their reports and experiences, which is why we are primarily responsible here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša. Following is the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, Mr Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In opening, let me say that our Group of Members supports the proposed candidate for the Ombudsman. We believe that the lady is a suitable candidate for this very difficult function. We have been in this position in our parliamentary group since the President of the country proposed it. We have been able to see in the past the references of Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer. Mrs. Nussdorfer pleasantly surprised us at the interview. Her experience, rational thinking towards positive changes and an extraordinary sense of fellow human beings have convinced us that Mrs. Right is the right person to serve as the Ombudsman. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposed candidate will carry out the work of the Ombudsman with great commitment, with the ability to make independent and objective decisions and make realistic assessments. Mrs Nussdorfer, in her work, proves that she is persistent and responsible in her search for solutions. We are confident that she will be able to observe and draw attention to the demands that have remained unresolved for many years, and despite the possible obstacles, she will not keep her eyes closed to such a delicate problem. She'll work as a guardian, according to our assessment, successfully. As the Attorney General, she has come to appreciate in detail the work of state institutions and the shortcomings of the social and legal system. Through her work in the field of juvenile, family and sexual crime, she has gained valuable experience in working with the most vulnerable categories of the population, such as children, the elderly, disabled and handicapped, victims of violence and abuse. As I said at the outset, we will support Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer in our Group of Members. I am also sure, on the basis of the opening positions of the parliamentary groups, that Mrs Vlasta will be elected today, so I congratulate her in advance and wish her a successful job! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The text is by the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u162	Your Honor! At the invitation of the President of the Republic to collect proposals for possible candidates for the Ombudsman, 29 candidates were applied within the time limit and six more candidates arrived after the deadline. The President of the Republic, after examining all the proposals and following consultations with representatives of the parliamentary groups, found that, unfortunately, none of the perfect candidates — namely, there was no suitable candidate or candidate — and despite their justification, it was not possible to establish sufficient support for Members and Members. Therefore, the President took the opportunity to find the candidate or candidate on the basis of his views and beliefs as to what would be best. After discussions on the above-mentioned candidates for the Ombudsman, and on the very fact that the President of the Republic has decided to seek out other candidates, we decided in Positive Slovenia that the right person for this place would be former Constitutional Judge Matvež Krivic, but this candidacy was not accepted. In view of the fact that, following public responses from some representatives of the ruling coalition, he had estimated that he probably would not have received sufficient support. After Matevž Krivic withdrew from the Ombudsman's candidacy, we simply abandoned the search for another candidate in Positive Slovenia. Especially when the President announced his decision and proposed Vlasta Nussdorfer, which we considered appropriate in Positive Slovenia. The candidate for the Ombudsman fulfils certain conditions by law and agrees with the candidacy, this is of course the most important and, in addition, everything else. At the discretion of the President of the Republic, he shall also have adequate knowledge and experience or quality to carry out the duties of the Ombudsman. The proposed candidate was also given a more detailed justification or presentation of her current activity, which is acceptable and appropriate for us. At the proposal of the President of the Republic, we invited the Ombudsman to an interview with the parliamentary group, where she presented her view of the Ombudsman's mission and the vision of her functioning in this situation. She explained that, in all her activities, she has so far faced the very issue of human rights and has advocated the rights of weaker social groups and would therefore continue to work in the field of human rights in non-governmental organisations. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that in these times of crisis, we would need a subtle person with a strong ear for individuals and vulnerable social groups, as a candidate of her own, so we will support the proposed candidate. Let me also mention: for human rights and freedoms are universal and not left and not right, not past, but present, and we hope that our future too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, followed by a debate between Members and Members. Mr Dragan Bosic has the floor, Mrs Plevčak is preparing and then Mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mr. Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. In view of the pleasant surprise that my colleagues have prepared on my left, I must say that today was one of the few moments where I enjoyed my colleague Irgle's performance, I will not discuss much, I just welcome this general climate and the enthusiasm of the candidate. I support it because of its work so far, but only the presentation in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. Mrs Nussdorfer's presentation was very quality, the man in conversation with her gets a feeling, and I am sure that a woman who has a well-developed sense of social conditions, to protect the rights of a small person, for children and also knows the expertise. Given that she has been a lawyer, this is an even greater plus for her, and given that, in addition to her regular work, she has been extremely active in all areas, I believe, and I am also pleased that the ruling coalition or SDS party has expressed positive views in her candidacy, I hope that she will be adopted with the greatest number of votes and I congratulate her in advance and hope that she will work for the good of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, prepare the mag. Borut Ambrožich and then Mag. Majda Potter. Here you go, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! When Mrs Natasa Kovac of the Office of the President of the State contacted me about possible support, of course, I immediately replied that this was not questionable, because I had thought at the principle level earlier, and I think that Mrs is a suitable candidate. Of course, I would like the following report by the Ombudsman to come on our bench one half less comprehensively and to describe less the assessment of the actual situation and that, in view of her rich experience in many areas, the Ombudsman is more concerned with the elimination of actual injustices or the provision of human rights to different groups of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Each of us, who has faced the most vulnerable groups or individuals in their professional or civil activities, is no doubt aware of the work of the candidate, whom I am convinced that today, at least if she has not experienced it, she would have earned sufficient support for the votes in her candidacy, to which the President of the Republic has actually called. In the case of a candidate, i.e. Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, it is a matter of exceeding the legal conditions required for this important institution or institution in our society, and the 1993 Law on the Ombudsman also constitutes an important foundation, from which a new institution has also grown in 2008, a so-called institution for the representative of patients' rights, and also allows the establishment of new institutes for individual areas for which the legislator decides. As it is said, I myself have been monitoring the work of Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer for decades, her self-sacrifice, her willingness to help anyone who turns to her for help, so she has my voice and I express my support for her candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I am sure that, according to the statements made by the Group of Members, Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer will today be elected as the new Ombudsman. At the same time, I would like to convey to her two thoughts from the interview so far by the Ombudsman, who carried out them at the end of her term of office. To the journalist's question: "Do you ever feel that the Ombudsman is here more for us to have him because we have to," she replied: "Indirectly not, but I feel that the Ombudsman's powers would have been changed by now or abolished if it had not been written in the constitution. Of course, everyone claims that we must take care of human rights, but when we draw attention to these rights, we often do not have an interlocutor." I would like to see Mrs Nussdorfer have always the right and understanding interlocutors, because this is in the interest of those who are looking for rights. At the end of her term of office, I would like her not to have to write down the call made by Dr Zdenka Čebašek Travnik; that is, for many years we have been warning that Slovenia does not have a national institution for human rights, which does this, raises awareness, educates and cooperates with the affected and their organisations. Such an institution would work on the ground, which is costing something, but the country would be equipped with data. People could get information about their rights and how they can exercise them when they meet researchers. Moreover, we would finally meet the standards by which, within the framework of the international association, we could promote a higher representation of the protection of human rights. I want the Nussdorfer authorities to do their part well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer as the Ombudsman for a period of six years. The function shall begin on 23 February 2013. Before voting, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on the Ombudsman, a candidate for the Ombudsman will be elected if two-thirds of all Members and Members vote for her, that is, 60 or more. We are moving to a vote. [[...]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group, please welcome Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I think it is right to say how we will vote in the Slovenian People's Party because we have not applied to the position of the Group before. All six votes are announced that Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer of the Slovenian People's Party will be the candidate for the Ombudsman. That's how we decided on the basis of the conversation we had with the lady. I think that her presentation was good, and on a number of the questions that we have asked her, we have received a sufficient answer, as I have already announced, we will support her. It is true that, in our own interview with the President of the country, we have told the President that of those 26 candidates who have been registered, that there are many who would be very suitable for the Slovenian People's Party to be the Ombudsman, but we know that Mr President has not received some broad support from the sent groups. He just decided to do what he did to propose his own candidate. As I have already said, we respect his proposal and will also support Mrs Nussdorfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. The application shall be made. Mr. Roman Zveglič has been reported, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I must say that it is my opinion that the President may also find a more suitable person. But I will support the candidate lady solely out of respect for the institution of the President of the State, even though he did not get my vote in the elections. On this occasion, I would also say that to those colleagues from the SD Group who called my friends to convince me to give this voice, that it is not based on that and that they could ask me directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. Voting adjournment? Isn't it? Dear Mrs Tamara Vont, I gave a break, but the timeline has already expired. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 82 votes against 4. [[The vote was 82.]] [[Against four.]] I therefore note that the decision has been adopted and that the National Assembly for the Ombudsman has elected Mrs Vlast Nussdorfer. / applause/ I ask Ms. Vlasta Nussdorfer to swear in front of the National Assembly. Welcome! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u178	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u179	Dear Mrs. Vlasta Nussdorfer! We sincerely congratulate you on your election to the Ombudsman, and we want you to do the work of the Ombudsman successfully, and do this work, as you yourself have stressed, as your mission. Good luck! You have the opportunity to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on this occasion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u180	Dear President, distinguished representative of the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, honourable Member and honourable Members! Today is a special day for me; beautiful, unusual and also promising for my next six years. To be able to carry out my mission seriously, all of you have contributed with your own voice. I must say that I did not intend to appear here before you, but it gives me such great optimism in such exceptional support from all the members of this group. I was a candidate for the first time, and I didn't come to the National Assembly, and there were years when I could do a lot more for people in this country, so I'm not sorry. Then I didn't sign up, and I thought that was the right decision. But when the President of the Republic called me, of course, I was thinking a little bit, and then you said, "Why not, I can try." I hope that I will justify your expectations, not just yours, but all of them – we can say almost two million people if we subtract children, a million and a half – who certainly need professional help when there are times of distress and when they feel that their rights are not best protected. That's why you and them can count on me. I really hope to be able to prepare reports that will show that there is high level of respect for rights in our country. Well, thank you again, have a nice day and all the good! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u181	We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. By letter dated 10 January 2013, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 8, of the Law on the Court of Auditors, that he appoint a mag as the first Deputy President of the Court of Auditors. Jorg Christian Petrovich. In accordance with Article 7, paragraph 1, of the Court of Auditors Act, a member of the Court of Auditors shall be appointed for a period of 9 years from the date on which he takes office. I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, Ms Nataša Kovac, for an additional explanation of the proposal for appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u182	Madam President, Members and Members, thank you once again for your input, I will be very brief. After this successful first part, we can be a little shorter in the second. At the invitation of the President of the Republic, the Office of the President of the Court of Auditors received 4 proposals from candidates. After a thorough examination of all the proposals and consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Assembly to appoint a mag as a member of the Court of Auditors, the First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Jorga Kristian Petrovič, university-graduate economist, Master of Science, Supreme State Auditor at the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Mag. Petrovič has been the Supreme State Auditor at the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia since 2004. For the last 7 years, he has led a section on the revision of the state budget, the revision of government and non-governmental users of the state budget, and led a section on the audit of local communities a year earlier. As the Supreme State Auditor, he is a long-standing advocate of the programming of budgets. With his work and knowledge, he worked with colleagues and colleagues of the Court of Auditors to improve the country's operations mainly in the areas of budgets, balance sheets, accounting and internal controls. Mag. Petrovič is a member of several international working groups of the European Association of Supreme Audit Institutions of EUROSAI, co-author of texts which regulate the powers of audit control and its organisation by the founding countries in the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism. Throughout the process of the creation of these texts, it has consistently advocated the equality of the right of founders to control large and small countries over the operation of the mechanism, irrespective of the amount of the founding share of each country. As an expert in the field of budgets, he was also appointed as a member of the Section for Sections of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly for Fiscal Rule in early spring 2012. On the basis of all the above, and the fact that more than a majority of support was expressed in consultation with the representatives of the parliamentary groups of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor proposes that you support the Mag. Jorg Kristian Petrovič as First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors and thus enable the quality work of this important institution to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you for the floor and let me briefly say that we had our candidate in mind in the process of selecting candidates and candidates, but based on the views of the other parliamentary groups, we have decided to support the majority proposal with the others and, of course, we will support the candidate and thus enable the Court of Auditors to operate in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has two reported discussers, mag. Ivan Vogrin, who isn't, and mag. Borut Ambrožich. Not at all. So I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic to appoint the first Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors appointing the National Assembly, it shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Chairpersons and four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Matjaž Han Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic New Slovenia. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevel, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. The vote is under way. 68 Members and Members were present, 68 of whom were voted against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of all Members vote for him, i.e. sixty-six or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members and Members of Parliament, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin in 5 minutes, 17.35, and will last until 17.50. After the vote, I ask the Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt the 22nd item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u186	We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 1 February 2013. 87 votes were distributed, 87 votes cast, one vote invalid. There were 86 valid ballots. 82 Members and Members voted in favour, against 4. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Mr Jorg Kristijan Petrovič, by majority of the votes of all Members, has been appointed First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. To the chosen magi. I sincerely congratulate Jorge Kristian Petrovich on his election. Please, Mag. Jorg Kristian Petrovich, First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors, swears before the National Assembly. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u187	Nicely greeted! I swear to do my work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, fairly, conscientiously and impartially. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u188	I congratulate the First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors and wish him great success in the performance of his duties. You have an opportunity, Your Honor, to address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u189	Dear President, honourable Members! Such high support binds practically perhaps even more than the oath just made. Together with my colleagues at the Court of Auditors, I will continue to work, as has been the case so far, to provide you with credible information on the operations of all our auditors. Thank you once again to all those who have supported me in this function. I wish you a successful job, and I believe that we will still meet frequently in the coming years. Good luck! / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u190	We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the hearing of the Notice of the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department, concerning the permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the MP of mag. Ivan Vogrin. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Maribor, Investigation Department. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the Court of Justice in Maribor, Section of Inquiry, IKPR135/2013 of 7 January 2013 concerning the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against a Member of the National Assembly of Mags. Ivan Vogrin, because of the suspicion of a criminal offence of business fraud under Article 228(1) of the Criminal Code of KZ/1 in relation to Article 54 of the Criminal Code of KZ/1, does not grant immunity to a member of the National Assembly of Magi. And allow Ivan Vogrin to conduct a criminal procedure. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the election of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances to the National Assembly. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, you wanted a word. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u191	President, I propose that we postpone this item to one of the next meetings, namely, debate and decision-making. Indeed, today we have decided on the SDH supervisors on the Mandate-Election Commission and we have done the same. I therefore propose that, when this is addressed at the MVK, we decide this in full, simultaneously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, under Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that the debate and decision on the Proposal for a Decision on the election of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding be postponed to one of the following meetings of the National Assembly. He wants the word "magic." Alenka Bratušek, President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, who is the proposer of the proposal for a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Since there is no debate, we are moving on to a decision. We are voting on the proposal to postpone the item to one of the following meetings. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal to postpone the item has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 19th A Dot of the Agenda – Act on the determination of the Parliamentary Investigation for the modification of the Law and for the other decisions of the State Constituent Assembly and for the determination and assessment of the actual situation for the purpose of determining the liability of the holders of public functions of the sum, that they participated in the supervision of the Slovenian banking system and in the direct or indirect impact of the State-owned ownership of the sum through the State-owned bodies and the regulatory authorities on the decisions of the Slovenian and non-banking system in the context of the State-owned enterprise On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 47 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank submitted a request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Jožet Tank, for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! We, I think, have made a request for a parliamentary inquiry to investigate the situation in the banking system. Although this Commission of Inquiry should have been determined by the rules of the National Assembly in December, since there was already one request for parliamentary inquiry at the time, we have somehow agreed to try to merge both requests, but at that time the other candidate, the State Council, its proposal, in accordance with the agreement at the meeting of the former President of the National Assembly, has not formed it. In fact, nothing has happened since January 9, 2013. Thus, we have properly redesigned and eliminated the contents covered by the request for a parliamentary inquiry by the Council of State. That the banking system has been a problem for a number of years, perhaps there is no need for emphasis. In short, these problems of the banking system appear in times of crisis. Last year, Mr Pahor said that, in his mandate, they underestimated the problem of the banking system in order to address matters that were not so important, that is the real solution to structural problems. This time, and this is what we're doing in this term. Otherwise, I suppose that Mr Pahor, when he was Prime Minister, was not properly informed about the problems of the banking system, perhaps he was also misled or perhaps the previous government was not even allowed to intervene in the banking system. Obviously, these discussions, when adopting the Bad Bank Act and the Slovenian State Holding Act in this mandate, confirm this in some way. As it is said, we have dealt with the right issues in this mandate, that is to say those which would improve the management of state property. This is said to be the law on the Slovenian State Holding and the law on the Bad Bank. Although there would be a lot of blockades in these procedures for the adoption of these laws, a lot of the barriers in which both the State Council and the opposition parties took part in the trade unions were overtaken by the coalition, and the laws are now in force. As it is said, the problems of the banking system are long-term, more or less recapitalisation is in progress, and the situation is still not improving. Currently, losses are projected in the operations of the three largest Slovenian banks and emergency recovery or recapitalisation will also be required. In the banking system, information about ever-increasing weaknesses or write-offs continues to appear, and that is why these banks are simply not able to do enough good banking or credit services. During this last period, there has been a clear reduction in the credit activity of our largest banks, as it has resulted in the fact that our economy has been forced to return more resources to the banking system than it has received from the banking system for the renewal of production, for the financing of production, development and so on. Although the previous mandate had adopted guarantee schemes that would help the economy to get out of trouble, here we can only find that these guarantee schemes were more lenient to the public, a more public idea of how some things would be arranged, but obviously there were no guarantee schemes, other than piranhas. In view of the fact that some state banks have already been rehabilitated with public money, that some state banks have been rehabilitated last year, that we have been in the middle of them again and that these banks are all in a row back in business and that the need for rehabilitations or recapitalisations is being reopened, it is certainly necessary to look at the intestines of the banking system and to explore why this is happening or why this has happened. The crisis cannot be the only reason and the only excuse, nor can confidentiality or bank secrecy, to prevent this problem from being addressed. It is likely that in the years that we have been deliberately cultivating national interest and the thesis on national silver, many things have been filled up, which has been covered with public eyes and cost the country and the citizens needlessly. We have cases of state property management where even companies with a monopoly position, even without real competition, do not achieve the expected results of business. In 2011 or 2011, which was in some way the reference year for the successful operation of AUKN, there were fifteen times more financial investments in state assets than dividends received. Instead of creating money, creating surpluses, the state economy needed public money. The big question is why our national silver is so heavy and why it needs to be maintained at all costs. I guess only some people know that. It is also a question of why it is precisely with the taxes needed for the functioning of the state system that we must raise funds for the state recapitalisation of companies and then listen to the strange decisions of the management which, if procedures are already initiated, are being carried out for years. There's something similar about the banking system. There is also a state monopoly here for many years, and there are only three of the biggest problems facing us, namely, banks in majority state ownership. The difference between banks and economic associations is only that or that the banking system is only more closed and hidden to the public. On the day comes data on the granting of various favorable loans, which can otherwise be called in the jargon 'on beautiful eyes'. At times, only the phone calls of powerful persons may have been sufficient to be granted or approved. Credits were cheap, poorly insured, banks miraculously did not react in time and did not insure sufficient investment. Bank portfolios, state banks are burdened with overvalued or non-performing assets and insurance is too low. Each time the administrations defend the cleaning and deterioration of the portfolio, and fresh capital is needed to maintain the good looks of the banks. The country is also the most at hand and the password of national interest has been the same for many years. Data are also coming on bad bank investments at home and abroad, particularly in the Balkans, most of which have infamously ended with large and unscathed losses of financial resources. There is also suspicion that a large part of the banking business has taken place on the basis of political orientations of connected persons, sometimes through intermediate fictitious addressees. In a time of great financial distress, when many companies with good programmes were unable to obtain credits from the three largest banks in majority state ownership, the same banks entered the consortium and provided tens of millions of funds for non-commercial investment in the Cologne. The regulator of Banka Slovenije has not yet been closed or at open meetings of the National Assembly, nor at the meetings of the working bodies, nor in one case at any commission of inquiry has she wanted to explain or communicate its decisions or views. More than has been made public, so accessible to all citizens, the Bank of Slovenia has not told them, so its role and responsibility for such a situation in the banking system must also be checked. It is not known, even though there are a number of controversial behaviours of individual bank administrations, bank members or bank officials at present, that the Bank of Slovenia will take any action against persons so that it may withdraw a licence or impose a financial or other penalty. We estimate that this is a systemic problem in banks that will strongly disperse with the establishment of a bad bank. The operation of the banking system is therefore burdened by the suspicion that many banking decisions were taken in agreement or in accordance with policy instructions, so it is necessary to verify the responsibility of the public function holders, to examine their role in the control of the Slovenian banking system, and also whether they affected the decisions of individual state banks in the granting of Taiwanese and other loans, then failed investments, as well as the financing of various so-called development projects of companies which, after magically, disappeared and were deleted from the registers, remained only financial holes. So the consequences are enormous. It is responsible for the National Assembly to appoint an investigative committee to investigate the biggest problem, which is still the same as it was in the previous term or as former Prime Minister Mr Pahor said. I hope that the work of the Commission of Inquiry will go well and that its work will not be hindered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs. Marija Plevack on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you for your word and good evening. The proposed parliamentary investigation aims to establish the responsibility of the public function holders for the poor functioning of the banking system and, consequently, the collapse of our economy. Among the reasons for such a critical situation most Slovenian banks can expose poor business decisions of bank management, weak or even poor supervision of banks, the granting of poorly insured or even uninsured loans, failed investment by banks, Taiwanese loans and financing of political projects. As a result, the bank's credit portfolio has deteriorated, resulting in a lower credit activity of banks. The result of poor business and poor bank management is also reflected in the economy, namely the decline in businesses, the decline in jobs, the rising unemployment and, consequently, the economic and social crisis that has affected many households. Thus, the purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to identify the causes and behaviours resulting from the systematic rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, to clarify the system of supervision, operation and management of the Slovenian banking sector, which allowed the Slovenian banks to come into this position, and to establish the responsibility of the public function holders that allowed such a situation. According to our assessment, the regulator of the banking market, namely Banka Slovenije, has not done his mission at all. We do not have information that Banka Slovenije would properly supervise business banks and act against individuals or bodies of banks. We therefore need to achieve this requirement by means of a parliamentary inquiry to determine the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia for the situation in the Slovenian banking system, in particular for several hundred million losses of Slovenian banks. It is also necessary to establish the total amount of credits granted by banks owned by a majority of the state and their subsidiaries from 1 January 1992 and, on 30 September last year, those credits were classified in class D or E or even written off. The same applies to bank guarantees approved by the banks concerned and cashed by the end of September 2012 or this will happen in the short term. The investigation should also determine, inter alia, whether banks in majority state ownership have respected and implemented applicable laws and regulations in the treatment of credits and guarantees. It should clarify the lending policy of the banks and identify who are the persons responsible or who granted credit and bank guarantees. Every person like that has a name and a name. Of course, according to our assessment, it is essential to identify the responsibilities of bank leaders as soon as possible and to impose the necessary sanctions. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we expect the investigation to be supported by all parliamentary parties and actively contribute to the investigation and clarification of political ties and responsibilities as soon as possible. We are convinced that all those who oppose this investigation certainly do not have a clear conscience and fear its results. Therefore, all these will endeavour to obstruct this investigation in all possible ways, including through the most substantial means of discrediting at both a personal and a political level, as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the country, we have already performed one rehabilitation of the banking system, at the beginning of the 1990s, when we were mainly rehabilitating state banks. Even today, when we look at the market share of banks, the majority ownership of the state and because of the majority ownership of the state, the State as owner is also obliged to ensure the capital adequacy of banks, it is incumbent on it to ensure that, in accordance with the Banking Act, they operate in such a way that they are primarily safe for deposits on the one hand and on the other, to lend loans to the economy. However, this has not happened in recent years. It was not because the banks, inter alia, were lending credits that had to be written down or for which write-offs had to be made or additional insurance had to be made, which means, in other words, that these banks were no longer able to credit economies to the extent that they were otherwise credited. This is why the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry is justified. Given that different lending took place in banks, not only on the basis of expertise, but also, as we know – from the media, if you want – on the basis of political pressure, based on the possibility of suspicious return services or services, the establishment of this parliamentary commission is certainly justified and we will therefore support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Today, banks face extraordinary difficulties due to so-called bad loans, which are for several billion, which we were informed when the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia told us about. While this parliamentary commission of inquiry has been set up for 20 years, it is also responsible for the supervisor, that is, the Bank of Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to look at the policy of the Bank of Slovenia over the past 20 years and whether its mechanisms could in fact prevent such loans from being lower. We certainly expect that the result of this commission will be that such actions will no longer be repeated and that the taxpayer's money used to recapitalise banks will actually go for these purposes, that banks will lend to the economy and that this will also increase economic growth and employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Shircel. Mr Matevž Frangež, Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u199	We are also reserved for the Social Democrats until this commission of inquiry. Especially since we have before us an act indicating that, in determining political responsibility for granting bad loans, it will set a period from 1992 to 1 January 2005 and from 1 January 2010 to today. It is therefore very interesting why the period between 2005 and 2010 is exempted. This issue is on the table, especially if we know that the gross external indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia has increased radically by more than four times in the period exempted from the scope of political responsibility in this investigation. This is important if we take into account who the applicants are for this commission of inquiry. During this period, which is exempted from the treatment before this commission of inquiry, a large amount of debt has accumulated, banks have increased exposure and have radically weakened Slovenia's ability to face the start of the economic and social crisis. I do not share the assessment that it is affected by the economic and social crisis of the global dimension. The crisis came from the outside, but we weren't ready for it, and that's why it hit us deeply. We would like to see in this country and in this community that the extent of the national disaster caused by the high exposure of our economy and the consequences in our banking system is so great that we can talk about it as a national disaster. This national disaster should be judged soberly, especially when we speak of responsibility for it. This responsibility cannot be the subject of political calculations and political calculations. That is why we promise nothing else from the commission of inquiry in this case but that it will unfortunately only be the ground for political accounting instead of the ground for finding new solutions to ensure Slovenia's recovery. And instead of finding real and objective criteria responsible for what happened in Slovenia. The political investigation in this case will certainly not produce a result, and we can say this with certainty even today, when this inquiry committee is being set up by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you very much. There is also the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Franz Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u201	Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are co-signed by the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of boutiques and botts in all the rehabilitations of the Ljubljana Bank or not only the Ljubljana Bank, but also the New Credit Banks, the Banks and all their subsidiaries. If we remember, the first rescue to the state banks was already there around 1993, and I think it ended there around 1997. In 1996 until 2000, we had established a parliamentary commission of inquiry on damage to social property, which talked about Elan, Tam, Metal and so on. That's when we found out and realized that through politics, political boats went to hundreds of millions of brands to foreign accounts. The epilogue of this commission of inquiry – remember Uroš Aljančič, Paul Kodra, who were convicted, and not for a second did they stay because it was corrupt with politics because the 1994 policy changed the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. And of course, Judge Šubic, who pronounced the judgment in March, did not write the judgment in 15 days, but only more than six months later, so somewhere in December. Meanwhile, this legislation has changed and new legislation was in force in 1995. At the end of the Court of Ljubljana's judgment, when it was found that the then President of the Commission of Inquiry on Uroš Aljančič in the media had said that he had lied before the parliamentary commission of inquiry and that the President of the Commission of Inquiry had been sentenced to a million SIT 700 and I think that he was arrested for half a year or so conditional. Those who took and had, I think, over 28, 30 complaints about hundreds of thousands of euros, millions of euros, of course, were not responsible for anything. Therefore, there is no strong expectation on the part of the Slovenian People's Party and me personally that this commission of inquiry would do something so important that the thinking in this country would also begin to change. This, however, can only be done by the parliamentary commission of inquiry to determine the responsibility of the political boats, the links for all of these – which is also mentioned in this provision and which has already been discussed – and by Parliament to monitor this very closely. Indeed, all parliamentary investigative committees are composed by participating in them — normally, logically — all parliamentary parties in order to prepare legislation and amend together, unanimously, without position and opposition. In fact, this will be the identification of not the left or the right, this will be the identification between thieves and honest people. Thieves were on both sides, and so were those who were fighting, who were taking credit, and who led the country to this state, which, unfortunately, we are in today. Thus, in order to prepare such legislation, all the assets of those who have stolen it, especially in the first place from political houses, would be seized, irrespective of the time it happened and not only their personal property, but all the assets that would smell a little bit of connected property through family members, larger or wider wealth. This could be, I will say, the main purpose of this investigative commission in order for Parliament to come to this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. There's a lot of checked-outs, including the first four. Mr. Lucky Meh, it's his turn. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u203	I would very much like to give up the debate if it were not at the beginning of Mr Tank, who was talking about the fact that the guarantee schemes had not done their job, and I ask what had happened this year by the government of Janez Janša. What had taken hold of the economy, but one third of that time had passed — as my first question. As my second question, I might say that the SDS programme states that the seizure of the assets of the tycoons, as was the case here, will take place. Why didn't that happen? You've got all the support you need, and we're gonna find all that stuff here for sure. Let's do it! You probably know what happened, it says, "Stolen" at Werner's, we got this by e-mail, what happened up until then, who was the godfather of these loans, which were given, which was the phase in which these loans were given. If you put this nice on paper and look for those thighs, then it'll be a very happy result. However, I believe that the results for various reasons, because most of these credits were given at the time of the government of Janez Janša, that we cannot therefore expect the results as we would otherwise have expected when we are talking about making order in the credits that have been given. If we look at the data that was also there – they say that it was all published for 24 hours and we probably all also saw what happened, then we know that we have a lot of money that will never come back and it will be very easy to find out who it was and we could do it now. Let me remind you that there's been a lot of talk about having a bad bank, and then we'll be able to figure out who was giving these loans. It's like we couldn't do it right now! Journalists know who, during what period, how much, and what happened. Let me remind you again of my favorite theme, that there are no measures, let's say, against both Bells, which are only NLB and NLB and Abanki, so in our banks, have created 600 million minus, and we have done nothing in this area. Of course, I would like to get the results very quickly to tell you who the godfather was who gave these credits were and not to use them as a tool with which we fill our ears and talk about who did something. Say it once, do it, you have all the tools, you have all the weapons, and you can tell for sure who did it. But if we are talking all the time about "they were working, they were political partners", then of course we never want to get to the truth. I believe I wish this committee could come to this truth. But I'm going to send what it says in here to the members of the commission, so you can see what time it took to do what happened. Of course, I think that the legislation you were talking about should be adopted very quickly, a law that would allow those who put together the biggest Slovenian companies to actually close down and take property and make order. This would show that we want to make order in this area. Thus we say that the judiciary does not do well, that prosecutors do bad work, that criminals do bad work, and that they do what we have in law. In countries where they wanted to make order, they adopted legislation that allowed them, after a short procedure, to legally shut down those who stole, as we like to say or say, and took their property. Let us do this and then I will be extremely happy, but otherwise the Commission is set up, and I believe that the results will be extremely fast.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrin. Then it's mag. Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. In 1867, one, apparently smart, wrote the following: "The owners of capital will encourage the purchase of expensive products, apartments and technologies in the workers. In doing so, they will be granted expensive loans up to the level of incontinence. Unpaid debts will result in bankruptcy of banks that will have to be nationalised. Then the country will take the path leading to communism." Only for this last sentence is the question if it will happen and everything else is absolutely true. By 2008, the whole company had been focused on promoting consumption as much as possible, no matter how much we created and, of course, we were all happily indebted. But the result now is, we have to say, only some or those who are the poorest, in other words. The fact is that the Slovenian banking system is not working and I will tell you how this moment is going on, say, lending the Ljubljana Bank on one occasion. In December and January, a Maribor company with 70 employees from the metal manufacturing industry had a poor realisation, so it could not repay a loan payment and the bank cancelled a long-term loan of EUR 600,000 without question. The company that operates in 20 years has blocked all accounts and is just ahead of bankruptcy. Is that a job? Is that the way? That's not the way! For the bad state of the banking system is certainly someone responsible, the question is only: is Ivan Vogrin responsible – and is there a thousand of those who have rented credits, bought machines and today we are in a stand-up position, I cannot, we have secured loans with mortgages on movable and immovable property, with our personal and own bills, with our salary and with everything we have – are those who have rented 100 million loans without insurance responsible? That's why the problem with this society is that it's not fair. Today I am treated daily as the one that I am to this country, even though I have run a successful company for 20 years, I do not know how much damage I have done! But those who have received 100 million credits without insurance are not guilty of anything and are not responsible. People, my dear, there's a problem! Of course, I support the establishment of such a commission and similar committees, I only hope that someone will answer! I am responsible for my obligations, which I have signed and who has signed, with all my assets, the property of the company. I don't feel guilty about what happened, but I am responsible because I was the director and the owner, and if the bank didn't know how to pull the brakes when it forced us to rent credits – I gave my book on purpose so that maybe it would come to someone that the problem is deeper. Right now, I'm reading a book that's the basis for my second book, the production of a man in debt. We're in a lot more trouble than we think. We are bankrupt, and the only question is how long will we be able to maintain the system we have. I'm sorry, this is my personal story. Because of my personal story and my honest purpose, because I have secured all the loans with the property of my company and my property, I am in trouble. If he did the same as most who hired unsecured bank loans, he would be a winner today, but in the long run it is only worth it, as said Minister Senko Pličanič, who I think is an honest minister and is unjustifiably leaving because of the stupidity of the president of his party from the government, who said: "Honestness, integrity, courage, perseverance and courage this Parliament and this country needs." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, then mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. A good greeting to all the Members of Parliament and to those who persist! In many ways, Comrade Vogrin, I agree with you – in many ways! That is why I also confirm the necessity of setting up or setting up an investigative commission. The former government underestimated the problem of public finances and also the banking problem, i.e. the problem of bank recovery. The Bank of Slovenia, as regulator and supervisor, did not perform its functions as it should, and as we expected from the regulator and the supervisor. In banks, it's a systemic problem. Political loans were issued at irregularly low interest rates without adequate insurance and without insurance, even without credit insurance. Such decisions were definitely not in accordance with the rules. Decisions on such loans were political. It is therefore necessary to verify, detect and prove such acts and to claim the responsibility of both the members of the boards of directors and the responsible persons in the banks as well as the members of the supervisory boards who exercised control over the decisions or even affected the granting of credits, Taiwanese and also those in good faith, as well as the disputed lending of companies without adequate economically sound projects, which soon after the receipt of the appropriations have become subject to deletion from the register and the claims remain as bad claims or even write-offs. Today, the situation in banks is such that the volume of bad loans is 7.1 billion euros. So this is one fifth of gross social product or one fifth of everything Slovenia creates in one year. These are loans with more than 90-day delays in repayment. These loans result in costs in banks which, due to reservations and weakenings, interfere with the capital of banks and eat them and, consequently, are not able to finance economies. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary and necessary for the Commission of Inquiry to be ordered and the powers to be laid down, to be able, objectively and with all due diligence, to carry out an investigation with a view to achieving the objective of establishing the responsibility of the holders of public functions to issue political loans at irregular low interest rates without adequate insurance or even without insurance or merely formally secured with questionable liquidity of claims. Secondly, the commission of inquiry should also be designated in order to establish suspicion of participation in the supervision of the Slovenian banking system, of all public function holders, and also of suspected indirect and direct influence through state ownership or through state regulators. I believe that it is necessary to appoint this commission of inquiry and that it is offered everything or that it is also given all the powers to carry out its work. With this in mind, I believe that it will also have jurisdiction over the allocation of the case or on account of the interest obligation also for the resignations of the PDU, that is, the special tax office of the DURS, that it will also have the power to waive the power of the Commission to prevent corruption in cases of corruption risk and that it will also have the power to resign to the prosecution for the suspicion of a crime of unlawfully acquired property at the expense of such acquired loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mag. Grimes. Mag. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The answer to why we urgently need this parliamentary inquiry lies in the answer to a rather different question, why, at the moment we are dealing with arbitration matters, we are adopting some key reforms for the country, to revive the economy, to overthrow the current government with all means. The answer is, in fact, twofold. First. The current government is being demolished by all means because it must be prevented from demonstrating its success, carrying out some key reforms, for example, by consensus in the coalition and with the support of the opposition, we have adopted a reform of the pension system, which was an unattainable goal for the previous government, a holy grail that they could only dream of. On the other hand, the answer to the question is why the current government is being demolished by all means, in that it must not become transparent, given that the legal basis has already been adopted for this reason, so that it cannot become transparent who actually influenced the decisions of the banks in order to achieve political lending. For this was sure to come to pass! But you've all seen this in Slovenian media – statements by famous politicians, some, say, one with blue eyes, that he turned the phone and was immediately directed to the right address, but it went, I think, for 50 million, if I remember the story that you could read a lot about. People were bragging about it, in public, in the media! It's purely political influence. This is said to be checked immediately if it is desired. But this must not become transparent, because then some banking general lending policy that applied to all citizens can be mixed with the one where there has actually been a political impact on lending, which is, of course, controversial, because it is an influence that passed the law on banks and thus also on the public finances of all of us. After all, they lose over and over again, which is cyclically hidden from the money of the budget, which, according to the local word, means that for what they once ordered the politicians on the phone, they squeeze into the money of taxpayers, draw out a lot of money and move on. This is like the cartoon of socialism: one asks for money, they say that he will arrange that, of course, he has money, reaches out to the other in his pocket and that he gives money out of his pocket, and that he gives it to the first. This is the definition of socialism as a cartoon, which was also recently published here. But of course, this would not work if all institutions in the country were doing their job. The Bank of Slovenia is the first to be called to watch over bank policy. Did she really do her part? In view of what I have just said and can be checked at any time that statements about the fact that someone has telephoned and reached, that someone has been through all the criteria, that several hundred million credit sums have been granted over all the insurance, and that this has always been present, also known to these people or should have been, if they have done their work, then we can find that Banka Slovenije’s policy has been so many times over the past period that, with a little sense of humor, with knowledge of Eastern literature, they could define it as a political policy of Banka Slovenije in terms of control in terms of the policy of those three buildings of monkeys: nothing to see, hear, nothing to say. As a result, a huge sum was raised, repeatedly covered with taxpayers’ money. As a result, certain procedures, including privatisation procedures, were carried out by talking about a huge hole in the end — you know, this hole was drilled by someone, whether there was something with very large spoons or a lot of smaller spoons, but these holes were created for a long time. If institutions, including the Bank of Slovenia, were to carry out their task, this should not happen in a normal democratic country. Yes, it is. That is why we now need a commission to determine who and why it has influenced and to find responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mag. Ambrožich, then Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mrs Damjana, a fellow Member, gave a good indication of the arguments which also support the creation and future work of the Commission. At the same time, I am also convinced that despite this time gap, which is why colleagues from the SD have concerns, I do not think there will be any obstacles to the members of the commission who think otherwise that they are exposing any errors in which other periods of time are concerned and that, in short, the whole operation of the Slovenian banking system from independence to today is to be taken into account where this is really necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, then Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much again, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! What do you think will happen in this country when some process will be completed in two and a half years and will be completed in Slovenian newspapers as stated here: Wolfgang Kulterer will be sentenced to three years in prison. Of course, I'm talking about the Hypo Bank – it was happening in Austria. 22. 4. In 2011, when the owners found out what was going on both in Austria and in the Hypo Bank in Slovenia, they did not trust my country, my authorities, to do anything, but they simply drove in cars, jumped into the Hypo Bank, picked up papers and took them away. The Epilogue of the Court, because they are in Slovenia, is unfortunately not yet finished. In Austria, this is done as it should be done. Colleagues and colleagues, when are my prosecutors going to put Mr. Zoran Jankovic in jail? He made it clear and publicly on TV a year ago that he was providing for the Greb for a loan, for a hundred and fifteen million euros to get a credit for a beautiful eye. What are our organs doing? Now we will have a parliamentary commission of inquiry; therefore, one point has already been completed: Zoran Jankovic, the politician, is responsible, is guilty because he himself has clearly admitted this, for mediating for all these possible and impossible loans, and for being in such a situation today. When will Mr Kramar and Mr Matjaž Kovacic be in prison? This will not be identified by the parliamentary investigative commission, but will determine which of the policy partners have been involved in this. I believe that not only Mr Zoran Jankovic, there were more. As I said earlier on behalf of the Group: it doesn't matter whether it's left or right, upper or lower. These are all those who are worthy of conviction and must first receive political connotation, and long ago, if our authorities were to act as persecutors as well as the judiciary, we would have been in prison long ago and not even all this political circus would have to end up working here in the National Assembly and dealing with other matters. You know, those who object to a bad bank are very opposed to this because it will open credit maps on the left-hand side of the borrower and on the right-hand side of the lender, names and surnames. I think that they are politically responsible, as will be seen, also the Bank of Slovenia and are politically responsible, because they are politically designated, supervisors in these state banks. It's time to tell the supervisor of these state banks, too, but we have to do it here, nobody else. As colleague Meh said, this cannot be done by a coalition, and it is wrong for Parliament to do so. Thus, legislation will be adopted to collect all this property, but of course it will not be possible to pay everything; it will not be possible to pay thousands of those who have lost their jobs because of such loans. Where are those sworn-in dignitaries who signed that machine is worth a hundred units, and then they even got 300 units at the bank, but that machine wasn't worth ten units! Where are these sworn dignitaries? They have to pay this bill too! And if we don't do it, then we're closer to failure than we think we are. I hope that only this parliamentary investigative commission will lead to the speed of reflection in this Parliament. I'm looking forward to this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek and then Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The robbery of Slovenian state banks or, as has been said before, the sociologist Dr. Urban Vehovar, with the crime that took place in Slovenian banks, will be dealt with by this parliamentary commission of inquiry with the dimension of the parliamentary investigation. As has already been said here, we will not solve everything yet, but this robbery and this crime in the banks are also associated with a lot of things in the Slovenian political space. I believe that this is also linked to the government crisis, that there are strong interests, that any way is to prevent this investigative commission from happening, as has been prevented in all possible ways, and that the creation of a bad bank and a view of credit maps are being convinced. Ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia has spent several billion, six, seven billion money through the banking credit system. Ordinary citizens do not realize how huge the sums are, so they are calm. In fact, we should smash – I take it back – to demonstrate right in front of banks if people had an interest in taking the most fertilising wounds on the body of the Slovenian state. I assume that there will still be great problems in the functioning and implementation of this commission, because those who have so much money, in Cyprus, should be owned, in various tax havens, will certainly invest a fraction of this money in ministrating every review, every view, every proof, but here we are those who are in charge of the Slovenian people, to take a step forward, to open this fertilising wound and to explain to people and give them evidence of who is responsible for the state of this country. Those who have money in Cyprus, and I don't know where, are also responsible for pointing primarily to politicians and parliamentarians as sinful goats. I don't think there are any sinful goats here for such a robbery in Slovenian banks, but of course they invest enormously to point out the wrong thieves. After the Slovenian judiciary has decided, it seems to sabotage the implementation of the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin, because for a year no proceedings have been initiated, despite the fact that we have in the sky extolling cases when the young people of known parents have become billionaires and millionaires and have in Cyprus, and I do not know where, huge wealth. Did we not adopt this law just so that they would have to prove where the money came from? But the judiciary is obviously defending this, so it is necessary to take those necessary steps with this institution of parliamentary investigation to open this matter up, to force the Slovenian judiciary to deal with it and to relieve the future generations of Slovenians of the strong pressure of those who have robbed this country, who have robbed this country, who have robbed the young generation, that they do not have jobs today, that many companies have failed and that there is hopelessness in this country. Through this parliamentary commission, we must send them a clear message so that it will be different in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you very much. As the last one at this point is also the proposaler, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. I see that there is a great deal of excitement in the parliamentary groups to determine this commission of inquiry, that some of you have let know what needs to be investigated. I am pleased to inform you that each parliamentary group will be able to propose an equal number of members to this investigative committee. This is said to be one member and one deputy. I suggest you propose to those who will show a great interest in these matters being investigated. Some of you know a lot of things, some also know those who, during this historic period, had the power and influence to call and ensure or implement a project or finance a project, to obtain domestic and European funds for what things, and I hope that the work of this commission of inquiry will turn out as oily. Documents, evidence, publications – extremely large. I only hope that the focus of the work of the investigative commission will not be lost on these small, small cases of Slovenian economists who, due to such or other problems, also due to non-payment of discipline or to payment of non-discipline, because they have not been paid so that this will not be the main topic of the investigation. The main topic of the investigation, in my opinion, must be given by those who have received large funds that have received funds at anonymous addresses to addresses abroad, to so-called mailboxes. A lot of these mailboxes, we've seen this from some octopuses, there's no more, and the rest are millions, ten million, and such a company has been miraculously destroyed. Very soon we have any trial against small people, decommission them, take away their property, and in a short time the proceedings will be concluded in all instances. Nothing happens to some for decades. We have cases where political people have covered the entire state octopus. They were in the organs of the Court, in the Agency for Restructuring, leading as a policy of ownership processes and so on, all in one person. We have cases where the transition between the minister and the governor was very fast. There was no problem and so on. In short, in some who crawled through these top state functions, there could have been a lot of powerful, a lot of this because it was conductive, directional. The key problems of the Slovenian banking system did not arise in these small economies, which have failed due to their cooperation in the chain; the key problems have been caused by such connections. This is a great deal, even in the last period, even in the previous term, some have praised publicly, here, in the House of the National Assembly, that they have fought for the allocation of funds for certain projects, let it be the Minister, even the President of the Government, I think he has once said that. The tendering conditions have adapted and so on. In short, these cases need to be taken. I believe that these political co-operations in the management or drawing of funds are extremely large in the allocation of bank funds. Some of the investments that took place at home or abroad are also linked to the cooperation of the policy and banking system. In view of the debate that has been here, even those who have spoken, I hope that you will put such people on this committee who will be hopeful, who will know who will want to deal with these problems; especially with the links between politics, banks, economic companies, the disappearance of money. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. This is not a key problem; the key problem is those who were tied to this cluster and these companies there were quite a few, about EUR 400 million hanging only on the companies that participated in the Sožica project. And that's where these decisions came about. In short, I expect that the work of this Commission will be creative, that it will not be bred as in the past mandates has been the case that, for such or other reasons, it has tried to stop the work of the Commission of Inquiry. This is about big things, this is about bad things. I hope that those who cooperate will have the opportunity to explore this, as well as to withstand all the pressures associated with the work of this investigative commission. I wish them well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-01-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry, so I note that the National Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry to amend the legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction and to establish and assess the actual situation for determining the liability of public function holders on the basis of suspicion that they have participated in the supervision of the Slovenian banking system and in the direct or direct flow through state ownership or through state authorities and regulators of decisions in the Slovenian banking system concerning the approval of write-offs, cashed guarantees and credit policies and compliance with applicable laws and regulations on the approval and management of credits and bank guarantees and the suspicion that there have been no negative consequences for such conduct. The purpose and scope of the parliamentary investigation are defined in the request of the Group of Members and Members for the purpose of determining the parliamentary investigation and in the act setting out the parliamentary inquiry you have received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the specific content of the parliamentary inquiry and to refer it to the decision of the National Assembly, at the latest at the forthcoming meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. And we continue with the 22nd paragraph of the agenda, but here we have three conclusions that I will only read, I hope, and I want attention in listening. We are moving on to the examination of the Conclusion on the Peace of the mandate of the Member on the basis of Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members. The Government forwarded the decision of 1 February 2013 to the National Assembly, which shows that it was a Magnificent Member. Mr Andrej Šircelj is appointed Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. The Government's decision was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which, pursuant to Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, the following decision be taken: 2. 2013 notes that the MEP was mag. Mr Andrej Šircelj has been appointed Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance since 1. 2. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, 2013 shall not be able to act as a Member while acting as Secretary of State. That decision shall be immediately notified to the State Election Commission by the Vice-President of the National Assembly and shall be requested to inform the assembly which candidate or candidate will be replaced by that Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members of Parliament. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Committee on Elections of the State will prepare a report and propose to the assembly approval of the mandate of the new Member or Member of Parliament. I thank my former fellow Member for his work and wish him much success in his further work. We are still moving on to the examination of the Conclusion on the Peace of a Member's term of office under Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members. The Government forwarded the decision of 1 February 2013 to the National Assembly, which shows that it was a Magnificent Member. Marko Pogačnik is appointed Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. The Government's decision was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which, pursuant to Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, the following decision be taken: 2. 2013 notes that the MEP was mag. Marko Pogačnik has been appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance and therefore since 1. 2. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, 2013 shall not be able to act as a Member while acting as Secretary of State. That decision shall be immediately notified to the State Election Commission by the Vice-President of the National Assembly and shall be requested to inform the assembly which candidate or candidate will be replaced by that Member in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members of Parliament. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Committee on Elections of the State will prepare a report and propose to the assembly approval of the mandate of the new Member or Member of Parliament. We also thank former colleague Mark Pogačnik for his work in the National Assembly, and we wish him well in further work. We are moving on to the examination of the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of Member of the National Assembly Branko Marinič In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that I am a Member, Mr Branko Marinič, 1. 2. 2013 informs the Member of his resignation. I note that today, pursuant to Article 9 of the Law on Members and Article 202(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, his term of office ends. The Vice-President of the National Assembly will immediately inform the State Election Commission and ask it to communicate to the assembly which candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will prepare reports and propose approval of the mandate and report to the assembly on its findings. Also, Mr Marinic, if you are here, I thank you for your work in the National Assembly and I wish you all the best in the future. This concludes this agenda item and also concludes the 10th meeting of the assembly. However, we have only one short notice for the heads of the parliamentary groups and the Member of the National Communities. I'm informing everyone that in 15 minutes, there will be an informal meeting of leaders in the basement in the security area. At the same time, I would like to inform Members and Members that an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly will be held on Monday, 4 February 2013, without public presence, in accordance with the Secret Data Act, so please remove all material and personal items and electronic devices from this room. Thank you very much. All those who go home, have a good trip.
