ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Bojan Starman. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today on 24 May 2013 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received with reference. We are moving on to a decision and I ask you to verify the operation of the voting apparatus. We're voting on the agenda. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day, it's on the eve of the Constitutional Amendment Act of 90, 97. And 99. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft constitutional law was tabled by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the National Assembly and received by a report from the Commission. I give the floor to the President of the Constitutional Commission, Ms Maša Kociper, for the introduction of the report and the proposal for a constitutional law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you the proposal for a constitutional law amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution. This constitutional audit procedure started on 13.9.2012. The proposal was prepared in the Constitutional Commission with the assistance of the section and on the basis of the decision taken to initiate the procedure and the position of the Constitutional Law, both adopted by the National Assembly at its plenary session on 1 February 2013 by 84 votes in favour. On this occasion, we discussed substantively the proposal for a referendum, possible exceptions to the referendum decision and the necessary majority in the adoption of the referendum decision. While there was no concern on the Constitutional Commission about the solution that only voters could require legislative decision-making, although the State Council ultimately opposed it, there were several discussions in other articles of the law. Thus, according to this decision, the referendum can no longer be proposed by the National Assembly, the Council of State and a third of the Members, but only another 40,000 voters. On the next question, this is a matter of possible exceptions, there was more opposition between the members of the section and the Constitutional Commission. In most cases, it was agreed that exceptions were necessary and, in the light of comparable legal measures, also necessary and desirable on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, safety or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, since only in such cases can the State take a satisfactory action. It was also largely not disputed that the referendum decision on the ratification laws of international treaties was prohibited. This is a bilateral agreement between the two countries, some agreement which is then ratified in the National Assembly. However, as the recognised constitutional law expert Dr Igor Kaucič has repeatedly stressed in his deliberations, this would be inappropriate because of the nature of the international treaties. At the same time, such a provision does not mean that a referendum decision is not possible under Article 3a of the Constitution, namely on international treaties ratified by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority of all Members and transferring the exercise of the work of sovereign rights to international organisations or entering defence unions. Thus, we are talking, say, about joining NATO as we had in the past, or in the European Union – such matters would therefore still be possible for a referendum. The biggest problems, as you know, have been the banning of the legislative referendum on the laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory taxes in the section of the Constitutional Commission and on the law to be adopted for the implementation of the State budget. Such a restriction is also present in a number of comparable foreign regimes in almost the whole of the European Union, with the fact that the entry in these constitutions is much narrower and, of course, the practice of the Constitutional Courts there is so widespread. It is justified to provide basic tax and financial bases and resources for the financing of the State and for the fulfilment of the country's tasks in this area. Although it is possible that criticism of "and other compulsory duties" may be somewhat inconsistent, the Constitutional Commission, after the expert group has confirmed that, despite the expert analysis and in-depth discussion, a better definition is not possible, has adopted the text as already stated in the position of the Constitutional Law. Slovenia will therefore continue to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court in implementing this provision, which will interpret this and encourage constitutional practice in this respect. This is the practice of other European Union countries in this area. Among the provisions prohibiting or restricting referendum decision-making is the provision examined on the basis of a proposal for a position by the expert commission and the Constitutional Commission. This is a provision that clearly restricts the decision-making of laws that abolish unconstitutionality. In this case, too, the practice of the National Assembly will have to insist strictly on the explanation given in the Constitutional Commission, so that only the articles proposed as non-constitutional may be amended in order to eliminate unconstitutionality, which were proposed by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Any introduction of other content and related amendments to the other provisions of the law will be inadmissible, as this would certainly avoid a legislative referendum. The practice of the Constitutional Court will also be crucial here. However, the largest amendment to the text so far is the fourth paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution, by which the National Assembly introduced the so-called suspension referendum of the refusal type. The National Assembly has followed the proposal of the section which found that in our referendum practice referendum decision-making is usually required by those who oppose the law adopted by the National Assembly. Such a way of practice and thinking is much better suited to the rejection model of the legislative referendum, which aims to prevent the implementation of the law. The draft constitutional law thus stipulates that the law in the referendum will be rejected if it is rejected by a fifth or 20% of the elective body. The proposal includes, as a condition for the validity of the decision, both participation in the referendum and a convincing majority within the electoral body to decide. This amendment significantly enhances the legitimacy of the referendum decision and takes into account all voters who have submitted valid, blank or otherwise invalid ballots, i.e. all those who attended the referendum. The last part of the proposed Constitutional Law provides for a transition to the new regulation of the legislative referendum set out in Article 1 of the proposal of the Constitutional Law. If the National Assembly adopts this amendment to the Constitution, it will have to bring the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative into line with the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution within one year of the entry into force of the Constitutional Law. The second paragraph of this section deals with the question of the implementation of the legislative referendum at a time when the proposal of the Constitutional Law has been proclaimed to comply with the law. For this transitional period, it is envisaged that the Referendum and Human Initiative Act shall apply mutatis mutandis until harmonisation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Constitutional Commission has before you a proposal for a constitutional law, which has received not only the support of two thirds of all members of the Constitutional Commission, but quite consensual support in the Constitutional Commission. The amendment to Article 90 and the related amendments to the other articles are necessary as the Institute of Direct Democracy of this legislative referendum has so far been widely used for narrow political interests. The proposed regime, which is fully in line with the comparable constitutional regulation of other countries, will in no way distort direct democracy. As the expert group stated in the explanation for the Constitutional Law proposal, Slovenia ranks among the countries with the most developed direct democracy by the number and diversity of other forms of direct democracy, since it knows as many as ten institutionalised types and forms of referendum. The participation of voters in the formulation of the most important legal and political decisions is complemented by the forms of the people's initiative and the assembly of citizens. Unfortunately, the above findings are not yet considered to be valid in practice. The framework for the implementation of the referendum is, in particular, a problem due to the lack of tradition, democratic tradition and experience and partly inadequate, the wide regulation of the referendum that we are changing today. Finally, on the basis of the debate and the proposals of the two section members, we have called on the President of the National Assembly to convene a consultation with civil society and discuss with them possible transitional changes to the rule of law towards greater provision of direct democracy. Such a consultation has already taken place in part and, according to the President of the National Assembly, it will continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u3	Thank you to the President of the Constitutional Commission for the introductory presentation of the report and the draft constitutional law. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting to all! The decision to amend the referendum legislation is clearly one of the most important and also the most demanding changes in the hierarchy of the act and in the sense of our Slovenian form of democratic legislative procedure, since a very broad political consensus must be reached on this amendment. As the current process has shown, there is more than enough consensus after several unsuccessful attempts and reflections in this direction to change the referendum institute. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that even at the level of Slovenian society, i.e. Slovenian public, the opinion prevails that the current institution of the legislative referendum is not adequately regulated and that the current regime allows for abuse for political purposes. Above all, in 2011, which we can call the year of the referendums, the implementation of the referendums was nothing more than the tightening of the muscles in a political sense and the legislative referendum was used as a means of fighting for political power – that is a fact. The very poor electoral participation in the referendums, which took place from the end of 2010 to the last year, also shows that the decision taken at the referendum cannot be practically demonstrated and recognised as the majority will of the people. Only the latter can be described as legitimate enough to justify the referendum as the highest level of expression of democracy in the legislative process, in which we also see the main role of the people. And also about bad attendance at the referendums. There is no way to ignore the question of why bad participation. What's the reason for that? The answer is known to those who know how to listen to people. Certainly citizens and citizens do not deserve to express their views through referendums on any issue which is politically controversial and on which policy cannot reach a minimum consensus. It is not fair to allow ourselves at all to take responsibility for citizens if politics itself is not capable of making a decision that is good for people. In the DeSUS Group, at the very beginning of the constitutional change procedure, we said that we agree with the objective and purpose of this constitutional change. We also fully agreed with the assessment that this proposal represents a restriction on the Institute of the Legislative Referendum. However, this restriction, which is both a restriction on qualified candidates, a quorum and a limitation on the substantive referendum decision, does not, in our opinion, constitute a restriction on democraticity, does not mean restricting the direct decision-making of the electorates and voters, but means limiting the abuse of this institution. As I mentioned earlier, there is some force behind us in the turbulent referendum years. There have been even more failed referendum initiatives, and in view of this, let us not deny that the referendum as the highest institution has not been misused as the expression of the will of the people on some matter for other purposes. The very bitter taste of the referendum institute itself also gives rise to the fact that the collapse of the laws already adopted in the National Assembly, and often even after the law has been approved by the Council of State by making demands or initiatives for a referendum, is almost already a practice of standing. What has been happening in our little two million-million-dollar state of Slovenk and Slovenes in the last few years or if you want to in all years of independence until today, when over a hundred referendum requests or initiatives have been submitted, is far from normal, we believe. The presentation of the regime in other countries also shows that Slovenia is more or less unique in this area, as we have the best option with regard to the candidates of the referendum and have no substantive limitations on decision-making. Let me get this straight. As we have already indicated in the DeSUS, we are in favour of amending the referendum institute and the proposed solutions are acceptable to us because we believe that this gives the legislative referendum adequate legitimacy and our place in the democratic regulation of the legislative branch of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u6	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! The current referendum regime is certainly not good. She's been abusing herself for tactical blockages for years. Let me only state the facts; in all these years, 80 initiatives for the referendum have been put in place, in fact only 19 have been implemented because it speaks eloquently of the referendum being too often misused for tactical blockades, stopping the legislative process in one way or another, stopping the laws and looking for different solutions. What people think about referendums speaks eloquently at the referendums. The majority of the referendums included participation – about a third of the citizens there took part in the referendum. Very little, very little, but there were those referendums where electoral participation exceeded more than half of the citizens. When a man walks in the field, he hears more or less one and the same. People want us to make decisions in this house and not put decisions on people's shoulders. And people have their referendum every four years, where they can say what they think about our work. What does the new Article 40 really say, and what does it bring? Firstly, the referendum can only require 40,000 more electoral beneficiaries. He's talking about things we can't discuss in the referendum. This is about the laws on the defence of the country and on the elimination of accidents, on taxes and on international treaties and on laws that address the consequences of non-constitutional acts. And the last part of the amendment to Article 90 speaks of the referendum being valid and the law falling at the referendum if it opposes 20% of all electoral beneficiaries and if these 20% of the electoral beneficiaries represent more than half of those who voted in the referendum. Now some of the facts that have often been misused, repeated, and spoken in recent months. Many have said that we take people with these changes to the referendum. That's a big lie. In fact, we take the referendum out of the political hands and give it exclusively to the people. Members will no longer be able to request a referendum, and only 40,000 electoral beneficiaries will be able to request it. So, we are not closing the referendum institute, we are not reducing democratic standards, and, once again, we are giving the referendum exclusively into the hands of the people. Rumor has it we're practically banning a referendum. A few facts again. When we talk about the fact that the referendum is not possible to defend and eliminate disasters, I will give a concrete case; if there is a natural disaster in Gorenjska and if the National Assembly adopts a law to eliminate and help Gorenjska to remedy the consequences of the natural disaster, a referendum against this law would not be allowed. This means that dissatisfied Ljubljanans could not sign a referendum against the law to help the Gorenjeks – I will give an example. And he's talking about how this arrangement ensures solidarity. He's banning tax referendums. You know no one likes taxes, but they are essential to providing pensions, education, health care. The referendum is also not allowed on the ratification of international treaties. If I give one more concrete example; if the National Assembly ratifys an international treaty on assistance to the Syrians, this should not be a referendum. And now the fundamental and essential thing is that a referendum on laws that abolish unconstitutionality will not be allowed. And I'm going to give you a very specific example so that you can imagine these things in plastic. The Constitutional Court has said that the enlargement of totalitarian regimes is unconstitutional. If the National Assembly adopted a law prohibiting the operation and organisation of extreme groups, members of these extreme groups could request a referendum on the prohibition. Now this arrangement makes it impossible for them, which I also think is fine. Some have also understood this provision – and this is particularly important for New Slovenia – that this provision prevents or prohibits a referendum on the future family code. We certainly do not understand this in New Slovenia because the Constitutional Court once allowed a referendum on the family code and we see no reason not to do it again, but of course the procedure will turn. Now in a civil initiative, this referendum has been requested and the National Assembly has appealed to the Constitutional Court, but now it will be the other way around. However, it will most likely be required by a civilian, the National Assembly will not want to sign it and civil initiative will have to appeal to the Constitutional Court. Once again, in New Slovenia we see no reason for the Constitutional Court to decide for the second time differently than the first time. About the quorum that there was a lot of talk about. Some say that 20% of electoral beneficiaries are too high to oppose an individual law. If we play with numbers, in Slovenia there has been a 50 % voter turnout in the last period. 50% of the people come to the elections and at least half of them need to gather, i.e. more than 25% of all voters, so that you can form a government coalition in this National Assembly. And if we say that 25% of electoral beneficiaries are behind some adoption of the law, then we think it is reasonable or a solid solution that 20% of electoral beneficiaries are needed to break this law. That's why we supported this rejection quorum. The following facts, which have also been repeatedly exposed to the public, have not been coordinated with civil society. Of course it doesn't. We coordinated the changes and made them for more than a year, so it was more than a year. In this room and in this Chamber there was a public presentation of opinions where everyone could present his or her views and opinions. Of course, there are, unfortunately, some civil society organisations and interest groups that understand coordination in such a way that their word must be made public. Because if their word doesn't apply, then there's no coordination. We're definitely throwing that thing away. Who is the most opposed to these changes? Most opposed are those who have over the past 20 years abused the referendum for tactical blockages — especially trade unions, which have improved their starting points, their bargaining opportunities. They also oppose those individuals who explain their democracy in such a way that they must always preach to them. I can say that in New Slovenia we do not imagine a great deal of democracy in such a way that a minority can always block most of it. He just can't take it. These individuals, you know, are measuring us through e-mails, through letters, how we are so and so different, while opportunities on the main show, such as Reflections, do not take advantage of us to explain their origins, but complain about how they do not have a media space, even though they are in the Reflections themselves. Who is the most supportive of these changes? Believe me, the changes are most supported by the silent majority of citizens who are full of political bargaining and constant controversy. Pressures on New Slovenia have been violent in recent times. Many have convinced us that we need to change our attitude, but in New Slovenia the word applies and what we promised months ago we will keep. Therefore, in New Slovenia we do not change our position on the basis of whether we are in coalition or in opposition, and this is also one of the reasons why we will support these changes today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u7	Thank you. Following is the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, presented by Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u8	Your Honor! For almost a year and already in the fourth attempt we are discussing the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of referendum. Three attempts took place before our term of office, and almost always the expert group and the Constitutional Commission reached some conclusions, but the solution was not accepted just before the end due to political purchases or political opposition. In doing so, virtually all the professional public, as well as the majority of the people accompanying this area, agrees that the referendum regime in our constitution is inappropriate, is too broad-based, allows very broad interpretations and, as we often like to say, also different political blackmails. In past regulations, in past attempts to address this issue, the expert commission has come to many conclusions, some better, some worse, but everywhere it has developed the matter better and better. This time, too, we can see that the question of the referendum is related to two issues. The question of a professional solution offered by the expert group and then by the Constitutional Commission this time and, most of all, in Positive Slovenia – the appropriateness of the political moment to implement such a change. Allow me first to touch on the first question – professional debates and professional solutions offered in connection with the change of constitution. It is precisely past experience and the work of the expert groups that has led me to believe that this solution is far better than all of it has ever been and that, in my view and in my humble opinion, it is almost impossible to be better. In the case of the referendum candidates, the new solution limits policy and gives the referendum to the citizens. Only 40,000 voters can propose a change to the referendum regime. In the second part, this is the exception, the new proposed solution limits the decision of the Constitutional Court and makes it more predictable. Even after the current regulation, as in all countries around the world, the Constitutional Court had certain powers to decide which laws could go to the referendum. In doing so, the Court held a different decision. We have recently witnessed some decisions that many disagree with. The regulation, as proposed by the new law, is therefore more specific and limited to the Constitutional Court and gives people and also more opportunities to anticipate in advance which laws the referendum is possible and on which it is not possible. And if I have already said that natural disasters are largely not controversial, most of them are not subject to international ratified treaties, especially if this does not mean that the referendum is not possible on important international arrangements such as the inclusion or exclusion from the European Union and so on, then, as the Constitutional Commission's report puts it, there are only two complications. This is whether the dictates of the new law are too wide when it says that the referendum is not possible for other levies as well, and whether the doctrine is too wide when it speaks of the fact that the referendum is not possible only with regard to laws that abolish the found unconstitutionality in the Constitutional Court. I have tried to answer most of these dilemmas already in the Constitutional Commission's report, in order to know that the Constitutional Commission and the expert commission have dealt with these issues in depth and responded to them. Thus, these answers are not the position or opinion of one of the parliamentary groups, but the fruit of a thorough debate and reflection of the greatest legal experts. And these experts argue that it is not possible in the Constitution to specify exactly everything, in particular "other duties" at constitutional level, in the constitutional text cannot be adequately defined. The Constitution, as such, does not even allow for such detailed texts. In this field and in the field of the exercise of human rights or of the unconstitutionalities established in the Constitutional Court, the right of the Constitutional Court remains to interpret, through its practice, and increasingly understandable to people, citizens and facilitators of the referendum, where the referendum is possible, where they are sustainable and where referendum decisions are not possible. The third dilemma is the question of who can decide at the referendums and what majority must decide that the decision is taken. Here our parliamentary group, as well as the Constitutional Commission, has listened to the views of some parties, such as New Slovenia, that it is not permissible for a non-participation in the referendum to decide whether a law will stand or fall. That is why this solution of the rejection referendum was finally proposed, where the activity and the passivity of the one who decides whether the law adopted by the National Assembly falls or persists. The direct democracy of passiveity, pointed out by Dr. Cyril Ribičič, is not a real direct democracy. He who wants to decide to be active, to participate, to be active in civil society, to run for election, to run for MP, to go to elections, to go to referendums, to make active decisions. This allows and provides for this new arrangement, with a certain threshold being set. At least 20% of voters must vote in the referendum that the decision has been taken and the law has been rejected. We think the threshold is right, let me even say it one more time. On the last decision of the Constitutional Commission, the experts of the section, which could be confirmed by all members of the Constitutional Commission, were dissatisfied with the reduction of this threshold to 20%. The threshold proposed by them, 25%, is the lowest in the European Union, and no country has this threshold set. We are on the Constitutional Commission because these objections have been expressed in all the parliamentary groups – not in opposition, but in concerns – whether or not it is in the light of the current arrangements for a higher threshold, this threshold has been reduced by another 5% and is now to 20%. I would like to stress for all those who listen to us that we have in Slovenia, as has already been said, many forms of direct democracy that can take place before the decision in the National Assembly. We also have a people's initiative, general councils. These are all people's chances of deciding before the legislative process is carried out. In this regard, the new Government has also committed itself to paying particular attention to a resolution on normative activities requiring specific procedures in which civil society and other citizens can participate in the drafting of legislation. However, when the legislation is prepared, forwarded to the Government at some point in time, to the National Assembly, when a legislative procedure is carried out, which has three readings, which has the possibility of public presentation and everything else, which is part of a normal legislative procedure, and when the law is approved by most members of the National Assembly, then some appropriate majority must decide that such a law falls. This alone gives greater legitimacy to the referendum and prevents abuses. And the majority is now 20%. Let me answer one more of the concerns that civil society has been sending over the past few days. They are very upset that the new bill no longer mentions that the referendum is binding. This was also answered by Mr Igor Kaucič, a recognised constitutional lawyer, on behalf of the expert commission composed by the most eminent lawyers in this area. This provision has fallen out because we now have another form of referendum – this is a rejection referendum. If the people in the referendum reject the law, then the law is no longer in place and the legislative procedure is terminated. No one has to commit to the National Assembly anymore, because the legislative process is over. If there is no rejection, it means that the law is the same as that adopted by the National Assembly, it shall be signed to the President of the Republic and then declared. Of course, it is possible to leave a provision in this law, which is now in it that a legislator cannot propose a new law for one year on this content, in order to further adapt the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, which will have to be adapted in one way or another. This is all a matter of debate that needs to be considered in terms of compliance with the legislation and an appropriate solution. I conclude with the thought of the political appropriateness of the moment. The moment is most inappropriate, the more inappropriate it really could not be. But for us in Positive Slovenia, it was also crucial that the fiscal rule is not one that restricts decision-making on all fiscal rules, but that the referendum regime is one that says and specifies when decision-making at the referendum is possible and when not. Therefore, in this new situation, it has now been particularly important for us to decide on this issue today at the same meeting and to make this matter more clearly determined by amending the referendum regime. People in our country today are being revolutionized and angry for a number of reasons. Some of us are directly concerned, I am talking about politicians, some are not, some are concerned with the poor economic situation, concerns about the functioning of the rule of law, the poor financial situation of individuals and could still be listed. But it would be very bad if, because the situation is bad, they were opposed to good solutions, solutions that could improve the situation. Not everything that is adopted by politics is bad, not everything we accept in this country is bad, and it is not right that people are against it. Some who are still sending letters of opposition to our e-mail addresses are not yet familiar with the latest version of the text and still think that there are banned referendums on all laws having financial implications. No, it is necessary to learn and we, politicians, must repeat over and over again that this regime is better, more transparent and more democratic. There must be absolutely no further concern as to the competence of this proposal. The proposal is professional and appropriate, and in Positive Slovenia we will, according to everything, support it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u9	Thank you for your position. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. In our Group of Members, we welcome yesterday's agreement between the political parties. It is an important agreement that will allow the government of Alenka Bratušek to actually rule as the first government and to have much stronger instruments in hand than any government before it, and thus, of course, responsibility. We are also aware of the importance of today's decisions, because by implementing both a fiscal rule and a referendum regime, it will be much easier to direct the country towards a healthy development path, a path that will allow governments to enable social development in a sustainable manner, rather than unduly burdening future generations and putting into question the sound foundations of a successful country, which is, in fact, a prerequisite for a state's legal, just and appropriate level of social. The Slovenian Democratic Party, at the time when it was the largest government party, and now that the biggest opposition party is the same relationship between the two standards, we both support a positive attitude, both in terms of fiscal rules and in terms of referendum changes. We do not imagine that we would continue to waste time in improving the Constitution, but we are aware that otherwise we are only losing as a country, because this automatically raises costs and, in addition, we are wasting our international reputation to our economy, our brands and, in particular, those companies that are yet to enter difficult markets. So far, we have paid dearly for this delay and evasiveness. We have three important decisions ahead of us by the end of the next week. Today we have a two-thirds decision on this constitutional amendment, then in the week following, we have to limit ourselves in some way not to put forward a request for a referendum on this constitutional change, and then, if this is fulfilled, even on Saturday, probably when the deadlines expire, give a vote for the adoption of a decision or both. I hope that yesterday's agreement between the presidents of the parties and the leaders of the parliamentary groups will hold that they will also hold in those parties that have had concerns, especially with the party of the Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek, and we expect them to be a man of word, as we say in the jargon. We support the proposal to amend the referendum provisions, as I have already said, in our Group of Members. In the negotiations for the drafting of the proposed text, we have given up much, including on the basis of multiple discussions on the parties' bodies. The decision for this compromise has not been easy, but we believe that without these changes no government has sufficient safeguards to plan and implement, in particular, budgetary and some other policies of the country. After all, last December, we saw what could happen if a person was engulfed by euphoria and the feeling that he was omnipotent. At that time, the public sector trade unions proudly submitted a request for a referendum on the Budget Implementation Act, which, at least temporarily, sought to stop the implementation of the budgets for this year and for the following year. This would trigger a temporary financing procedure. It immediately turned out that the consequences of this reckless trade union move would be too severe, especially for the public sector, and that these consequences would be very difficult for the government, even though they did not like it. It was very difficult to get rid of the feeling that it was not a matter for Janša's government and that it was not part of the scenario of the overthrow of the Janša government, which then ended in a piano. Fortunately, this blockade did not come out as planned by the unions, the consequences were minimal, and they also flew more to the government of the week than to the cause of the one who then just kind of fainted. As I have already said, we have repeatedly held a broad debate within the SDS in all stages of this referendum change, both with regard to the limitations it brings, as well as with regard to the outcome of the referendum. There have been a lot of reasoned concerns and also a lot of bad feelings about the abuse or abuse of the referendum will of the electorate, especially in the implementation of the electoral system into the constitution. The solution, which once entered the constitution, was completely contrary to the majority will of the electorate, so that the Constitution did not have the majority of the two-way electoral system, which is why now every district has no member of its own. That's when such an anomaly happened. As regards the specific amendments to Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution, the following. In the first paragraph, 30 Members are deleted – I must say that this was not a simple decision for our party and the Group of Members, because this in fact eliminates the possibility of a parliamentary minority who disagrees with the solution and no longer has the possibility of, say, a certain solution to the law that is adopted, calling for a referendum. However, this was part of the compromise that our party and the Group of Members agreed to. For us, however, there was no dispute over the deletion of the State Council, as one who may request a referendum, since the so-called House of Parliament has the option of suspending or voting a veto on the law in the process. We believe that such a right it has is sufficient and does not yet need an upgrade to the referendum. With regard to the second paragraph, which is slightly broader, we have some concerns that have not actually been fully cleared in the process. In particular, the constitutional solution re-enters human rights and fundamental freedoms. This chapter is the most extensive chapter, I think it has more than 40 articles of the Constitution, and one political group has insisted that this be enshrined in the Constitution as a condition that it participates in amending this regime. Here we have had our doubts, and we also now believe that it is a matter of doubling an arrangement. Here I would also like to draw attention to the possibility that the abuse of proponents or legislators, who may, in the context of the resolution of the anti-constitution of human rights or other solutions, abuse this by law, where the removal of this anti-constitution will be a minor part of the proposed law, and may also represent a greater part of the solutions that many would disagree with. In view of the fact that they are only citizens now, this arrangement could prevent their initiative. We know that in practice the laws are never pure, we never only have the implementation of European directives or other matters, we never only have the abolition of unconstitutionality, but usually when a law is proposed, some other pending matters are regulated. I must say that, on the Constitutional Commission, we have expressed grave concerns about this regime, the interpretation of constitutional lawyers was slightly different, because there is supposed to be an evaluation of these rights. Nevertheless, we believe that in the case of a law or a law that regulates unconstitutionality, this law should be pure, that is to say that it should eliminate only unconstitutionality and not any other possible contentious matter. I must say that such abuses of this constitutional arrangement, which is now before us, would not be supported and we hope that those who propose or adopt or later adopt laws will be aware of the consequences of this article or this indent. As regards the provision on other compulsory duties, we also had concerns. I don't think there's gonna be any worse abuses here, because it's probably not possible to hang everything on this mandatory charge. I think that the main emphasis will be on exempting mainly taxes, customs and what is covered by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. I must say that we also had a major discussion on the quorum; first, since this compromise proposal was then written down in the original text, this quorum seemed too high and later, when the Constitutional Commission formulated this rejection provision, we had doubts about the solution of this 25% quorum to reject the law. I welcome that then our initiative on the Constitutional Commission has been adopted to reduce the quorum to 20%. I don't think this should be a serious requirement for a referendum, too much of an obstacle not to achieve it. Finally, I would like to point out that both the fiscal rule and the referendum regulation of a type of twins are a rule in the fiscal rule in which planning in public finances must move and the referendum provides for exceptions where public or general decision-making is not possible. The adoption of referendum rules alone would be incorrect, as the fiscal rule is the one that first binds the government, each government in which it can draw up a budget or public finances, while the referendum restricts citizens not to make any decisions at the referendum. And I think that both solutions have reached a suitable compromise. Our Group of Members will support the amendment of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u11	Thank you, too, for your position. Dr Ljubica Jelusic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u12	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear fellows and fellows! In the Group of the Social Democrats and in our party, we have fully acceded to the amendment of the Constitution in the 1990s, 97th and 99th articles concerning the regulation of the legislative referendum for two key reasons. Firstly, for many years we have found that the legislative referendum has been turned into a form of political accounting for the majority vote in the National Assembly. The forces that failed to reject any law at the National Assembly's hearing did so by means of 30 votes, a media campaign and then a referendum. We have assessed that the initiative for a legislative referendum must remain in the hands of citizens and citizens, other political forces, in particular parliamentary parties, and the Council of State must fight for their own right under the democratic principles of the functioning of the National Assembly or Parliament, if we also include the Council of State. With the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution, which states that the National Assembly will call a referendum on the enforcement of the law, if at least 40,000 voters so require – and not more at the initiative of 30 Members or the Council of State – this is our conviction. Secondly, in the history of legislative referendums, we are particularly reminded by those who have been directed against the legal and constitutionally regulated rights of minorities, i.e. against fundamental human rights and freedoms. Therefore, in the process of amending the Constitution, we have insisted — and I hope that we have succeeded in this — that the second paragraph of Article 90, as amended, prohibits the call for a referendum on laws that eliminate unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We also support other solutions that eliminate two decades of doubt as to which laws the Constitutional Court must protect against referenda and which laws may be subject to civil decision at referendums. In fact, the members of the expert group who prepared professional grounds for amending Article 90 of the Constitution for the Constitutional Commission warned us that the previous 90th Article of the Constitution remained inconclusive as to which referendums were admissible, when writing the Constitution, and that the writers of the then Constitution, that is, our Constitution, were aware of it at that time. Therefore, they have left the Constitutional Court a ruling on which marriage may or may not go to a referendum. Over the years, a specific practice has been developed to assess the Constitutional Court, which, in particular, in the context of financial law, has been quite inconsistent. For example, it made possible a referendum on pension reform in 2011, although the reform at the time was an essential proof of Slovenian reform orientation also for global financial markets. Since then, after the fall of the then pension reform, as we recall, Slovenia's credit ratings have begun to decline radically. On the other hand, this practice of the Constitutional Court has prevented a referendum on Slovenian State Holding Laws and on a bad bank which both deal with financial issues which can be addressed in different ways. We therefore believe that it is right that the Constitution gives stronger anchors to the Constitutional Court on how to decide on the admissibility of the legislative referendum. Therefore, it is also right that the referendum could not be called upon to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedying the consequences of natural disasters, then on the ratification laws of international treaties, if they do not concern the transfer of the sovereignty of the State. We also believe that the Constitutional Court should take into account in its judgments in the future that a referendum on the law on the implementation of the budget and laws governing taxes, customs and other compulsory duties would not be possible. The fourth paragraph of Article 1 introduces today several times the provision that the law in the referendum is rejected if at least one fifth of all voters vote against it. On the Constitutional Commission, we had before us an assessment of whether this quorum should be placed higher. Internationally comparable, at least one third should be determined. The expert commission, which knew this data very well from other countries, considered that it would be good to reduce this internationally comparable number, i.e. the quorum at one-third to one-quarter, i.e. 25%. The Members then reached a compromise and reduced it to one-fifth. As in Article 1(1) of the Constitutional Law, which we are talking about today, we have also allowed in this case more opportunities for citizens and citizens to show their will through some of their active activities in the referendums. The proposed amendments to the Constitution in the 1990s, 97th and 99th Articles will be supported by the Social Democrats. At the conclusion, however, it is also appropriate to state the following: the best constitutional arrangements for the referendum are those which do not need to apply it in practice. This means that we must all work together to make such decisions, such laws, which are coordinated and enjoy the broadest possible support, and this support not only to politics, but also to professions and the entire public concerned. The more we succeed in this, the less the issue of referendum regulation will be at the centre of attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u13	Thank you, too, for your report. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Well, welcome to my side, too! It is true that the bad ten months have passed since the 50 Members have taken the initiative to amend Articles 90, 97 and 99. I am pleased that we have been able to achieve policy unification to such a large extent. On the other hand, I am pleased to note that we have also responded appropriately to the warnings of the profession, which, practically since the adoption of the Constitution, has pointed out that the regulation of the legislative referendum in Slovenia is inadequate or inadequate. Prof. Kaučič, a member of the expert commission, has for years warned that we have a unique referendum model in Slovenia. We had or still have the largest number of qualified applicants, virtually no restrictions on content, there was no quorum, and we also had a one-year suspension period to decide. All these reasons led us to want to respond to these challenges through the September initiative. There have been many times in the public – it seems unfair – to note the criticism that there are not enough levers in Slovenia to carry out direct democracy. We have already heard today that we have as many as ten forms of different referendums, but the fact is that the legislation has been used most often for the reasons listed in the introductions and other forms are being used very limitedly. We must be aware that one of the weakest members of direct democracy is the information of the electorate. Lack of information has led to the failure of the electoral base, the so-called instrumentalisation of voters, and the task of the founder is to limit or prevent this. This is exactly where the proposed changes are going. I am surprised that part of the public is still talking about killing democracy, but if we give the legislative referendum to the electorate. As has been said several times today, the referendum will no longer be able to propose thirty Members of Parliament, nor the Council of State, which now had the same opportunity. And when we talk about this change, as I said, we can actually talk about the consensus of politics and professions. We have practically listened to all the proposals and additions made by the section appointed within the framework of the Constitutional Commission. In the first phase, a quorum of participation was proposed, experts proposed a quorum of rejection, but both pursued the same objective – the objective was: to achieve a higher threshold for the legitimacy of the referendum. I also welcome the consensus reached at the last meeting of the Constitutional Commission; otherwise, as has already been said, the experts opposed it, but we have listened to the public's initiatives, which have spoken of an excessive quorum, and we now stipulate that a legislative referendum is considered to be rejected if it is voted against by the majority of voters who have voted in force, but provided that at least one fifth of the voters vote against the law. This quorum is among the smallest in Europe, as my predecessors have already stressed. The second most important amendment concerns the determination of which laws of the referendum are not permitted to be disclosed. Let me point out that a similar provision, less precisely specified, has already been regulated by Article 10 of the Referendum Act and on the Human Initiative, which was repealed by the Constitutional Court precisely for the reason that, for what it provided for in Article 10, this is a true substantive restriction, there was no basis in the Constitution and, by this arrangement, we are solving this transfer to the constitutional level. As has been said several times, we are only giving additional anchors to the Constitutional Court to facilitate the decision on the admissibility of the referendum. Finally, I would like to say that we have been instigated in the National Charter by these changes, but I thank all those Members, the parliamentary groups, the parliamentary parties who have helped us to trim this text, collapse it and adapt it in a way that we have reached such a high consensus. I thank the expert committee for all the suggestions and for the corrections, improvements. In the Civil Gazette, we are confident that this text, which has now emerged in cooperation and is being put into final decision by the National Assembly, will also lead to a legislative referendum in Slovenia, which will be a serious institution of representative democracy and at the same time exclusively in the hands of the electorate. We had this goal in the beginning, we have achieved this goal, and for this reason we will also support these changes today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Even today this second change of constitution has not been on the table since yesterday. After us there are several stages of procedures, more than a year of debate – since we have found that the existing referendum legislation has shortcomings, until we have found that some of these shortcomings are being used very actively, including as a negotiating basis for the exercise of their rights or for the achievement of their objectives, which are of a very narrow nature. We need to restore credibility and validity to the Institute of the Referendum because of these past events. We must use it as a highlight of democratic decision-making on topics that are truly important for most citizens and citizens. The referendum can neither be a tool for destroying such or different policies, governments nor tools for enforcing narrow, such or different interests – so change! The first is to take the referendum out of the political hands. The referendum is not her domain. If the referendum is an expression of human will, then only citizens and citizens should have the right to demand it. And 40,000 certified signatures are enough critical mass to verify human will on a certain subject. Another major change is to define in the constitution what are the themes that do not belong to the referendum. Here we do not invent anything new, especially with regard to financial matters, most European countries, including those with a centuries-old democratic tradition, adopted certain restrictions and cannot decide on them at the referendum. Why? Because these legal changes are usually only a reflection of the economic policy and financial situation in the country. The constitutional regime obliges the State to fulfil its obligations to citizens in the form of a social state, in the form of the provision of well-deserved pensions, and the provision of a certain level of public services. This must be adapted by each government and sometimes unappreciative measures, particularly in the area of finance, are needed. If citizens are not satisfied with the management of economic policy, if we are not satisfied with individual measures, then we must express our distrust in the elections. However, it cannot be a tool to express disagreement with measures that are sometimes unfortunately inevitable for the sustainability of the financial system, just a referendum that could limit individual decisions in the area of public finances and ensure the competitiveness of the economy. Therefore, this limitation of the referendum on laws in the field of taxes, customs, compulsory duties and so on for us in the Slovenian People's Party still makes sense, while the restrictions in the framework of ensuring the defence of countries and human rights already exist in our constitution and are, in fact, being confirmed today. Another third solution, which we still support in the Slovenian People's Party with compressed teeth, is much better than the original proposals in this segment. The required quorum that the legal solution may be rejected by a fifth of all voters, the solution in the form of the concept of a rejection referendum is better than the general quorum. This is the decision of those citizens and citizens who attend the referendum and not those who stay at home. If we did not adopt such a solution, I fear that the problem would not be in the expressed human will, but in ensuring participation or even worse, we would even face calls for a referendum decision not to have to be taken. In the solution that we have been able to negotiate during this last year's talks, the fate of the law is in the hands of those interested in the referendum topic. True, one fifth of all electoral beneficiaries are still not small. In the Slovenian People's Party, we want this quorum to be slightly smaller or not to be. Now that the terms of the call are more acute and the referendum cannot be signed by just a few people anymore, but only 40,000 citizens and citizens will do so, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party at the referendums we will only decide on things that really concern the widest circle of the entire population and thus the quorum would no longer be needed. As it is said, in the Slovenian People's Party we are aware that certain changes need to be adopted and we are trying to act constructively in this light. Although at the beginning there was no understanding of our concerns, we have always tried to compromise at least, and with only six Members we have always warned of the futility of the quorum in the new regime. But as is usually the case between two negotiators, positions are getting closer somewhere in the middle. And this quorum of 20% of all voters who have to vote in favour of rejecting the law is this compromise, despite the fact that we still do not like it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment of the referendum legislation. The referendum is still the highest institution of a democratic state and, after the solution we are adopting today, the referendum remains a strong tool for the people. In fact, the current changes in human will are being implemented through elections, and referendums remain reserved for the most important themes, those which are crucial both for the moral and economic development of the state and society. And we are not endangering this goal by means of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u17	Thank you, too. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In the context of the common time, the National Assembly will first hold a debate on Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the Section and the debate on II. the division and then the debate on the proposal for a constitutional law as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on Articles I and II. a section of the draft constitutional law. The debate will be opened by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Today in the National Assembly, I have already said that in the DeSUS Group we support these constitutional changes and agree with the objective and purpose of this change. We assess that the proposal we are discussing constitutes a restriction on the Institute of the Legislative Referendum in order to limit the abuse of this institution. Most citizens agree with our view that what has happened in our country in the last few years, when more than 100 referendum requests or initiatives have been tabled, is far from normal. We also share the view that the current institution of the legislative referendum is not adequately regulated and that the current regime allows for abuse for political purposes. Once again, I would like to point out that this is not about restricting the democratic or citizens' right to a referendum, but it is about preventing the abuse of this institution by political parties. The referendum has become a regular means of breaking already adopted laws with which a certain political option has not been agreed upon. The fact is that our country is more or less special in the field of regulation of the referendum, because we have the best option with regard to the applicants, and we have no substantive limitations on decision-making. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that, with the proposed amendments, we give the legislative referendum adequate legitimacy and our place in our democratic regulation of the legislative branch. Moreover, I believe that the proposed amendments really give a referendum to those who are most entitled to it, that is 40,000 citizens and citizens, and to those who are vital to the functioning of the country or who would reduce human rights and fundamental freedoms. That is why we must prevent the abuse of the referendum institute, and we must ensure a higher degree of seriousness in the implementation of the referendum initiative, so in DeSUS we support the increase in the number of those who give the initiative or support the initiative to introduce a referendum to 5,000 signatures. And what is also very important is that we support the fact that the signatures of the initiators need to be certified in the administrative unit because the personal data are accurately recorded and the signature certified. So once again, in the DeSUS Group, we will support constitutional changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potrata will be the next debater, and Mrs Janja Klasinc will be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support the amendment of the Constitution concerning the referendum, mainly because I see in it the application of most of the professional arguments. I would be even more dissatisfied with the fact that even if the quorum were more followed by the proposals of the profession, the political decision would prevail. I also remember the debate on the extent to which the quorum was supposed to be before the plebiscite, and then the people merely expressed their very high participation and thus gave greater importance to the decision taken at that time. In the elections and in the electoral programme before the extraordinary early elections, we announced our request for amendments to the referendum legislation. When a new reference was made, this is our call to the National Assembly, deciding which constitutional issues were to be examined, the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats put first the issue of amendments to the referendum regime and wrote: "In our parliamentary group we are committed to such a constitutional regulation of this issue, which, in a sense, would limit the mass investment of referendum requirements, which in recent years has produced many different negative consequences for our society and the country." Therefore, we did not change our position according to our status as a coalition or opposition party. If we look from a legal point of view and profession, then we would warn – thank you for sending me a rubber – that the referendum as a form of direct voter and electorate decision can be defined in two ways. For the first time; by law, which means the right of all electoral beneficiaries to decide by general vote on a particular act of the representative body. Secondly, from the point of view of the functioning of the State authority, which means the way people participate in the adoption of the most important legal and political decisions, which are otherwise within the competence of the representative body, in this case of the National Assembly. We therefore consider the referendum to be one of the forms of direct democracy or direct decision-making between citizens and citizens. However, the referendum as a way of deciding, but it has no monopoly on democratic decision-making. All the advantages of democratic decision-making must be taken into account, but also the limitations that are objectively contained or derived from it. I now quote literally: "If the referendum is to be an effective form of direct democracy, it should only be used exceptionally for the most important political issues, but it is not appropriate to decide on very difficult professional and complex issues, especially if they cannot be created with transparent and understandable alternative solutions." End of story. I cited, after a research project, the legal regulation of the referendum and the people's initiative, which was launched in 2000, is said to have been significantly earlier than before the outbreak of many referendums. Until then, only two were performed at national level. Therefore, it can be argued that there are acceptable reasons for amending the referendum regime from the point of view of European democratic traditions. The amendments should limit the availability of the referendum and should not prevent the people from refusing to reject the laws adopted in the National Assembly. This change is also what we are implementing. On the other hand, the laws adopted in the National Assembly cannot destroy a handful, a minority of all voters. This issue is therefore addressed by the quorum and it is therefore important that the policy, in this case a political minority, is self-limited. If I have previously referred to the previous referendum practice, let me say that nineteen referendums have been held at national level so far, of which fifteen are legislative, i.e. ex-legislative. If we look at the years in which the highest number of referendums was held, this is certainly the year 2003 when five referendums and seven referendums were held in 2010 to March 2012. If we were to see how much participation was in the referendums, we would be sure to present a referendum on the EU and a referendum on NATO, to put it briefly. It was 60 percent at the time. However, we also have two in the register of referendums that were below 20% of the participation. There is certainly a consultation referendum on the provinces with a slightly less than 11% participation, and the subsequent legislative referendum held the lowest in December 2010, a second referendum on the law on RTV Slovenia – a little less than 15% of the participation at that time. Now, of course, we could talk about another referendum with less than 30% participation, but otherwise these referendums were crucified in participation, as I said before. Interesting is also a referendum on the real estate transformation of insurance companies, where almost 58% of the population with relatively high participation was rejected by more than 70%. And it is precisely because, as a rule, people are going to a referendum when they are against a law, it seems to me that we have introduced a subsequent legislative rejection referendum. It's a specialty. If I look at which three issues the change has taken place, the first question is the right to propose a referendum. Here I must say that it is misleading to explain those who claim that people are deprived of the right to a referendum. This is not true because the referendum can still be proposed by citizens and citizens with signatures collected. The number of signatures collected remained unchanged, that is forty thousand. But we have taken away the right of politicians, that is to say Members and Members and the Council of State. The second question, the right to vote in the referendum, is related to the quorum. I have already said here that the fifth rejection of a law is enough to ensure that the law does not receive confirmation, certainly one of the lowest in Europe, the profession here mentioned a third. And I would also like to talk about the substantive constraints on the call for referendums. See, if you take into account Article 10 of the current Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, you will read there that the legislative referendum cannot be declared in three cases. Firstly, on laws adopted under an emergency procedure — these are virtually all laws that receive this mark in the legislative procedure following an emergency procedure because this requires the extraordinary needs of the State, interests, defence or natural disasters. Secondly, laws directly dependent on the implementation of the adopted state budget. Thirdly, on laws adopted for the implementation of ratified international treaties. In fact, it is only what is essential for the Social Democrats when we express ourselves for change, and these are the issues related to the protection of human rights, the exercise of human rights, because we cannot forget that we have also had referendums in this country that have affected the rights of minorities and have been decided by the majority on these minority rights. Let me remind you of the referendums on deleted, the biomedical aid for fertilization and last, the family code. We could be discussing RTV in theory right now, but let's leave it because it's also about the right to information in a broader sense. So if I conclude, in the opinion of the Group of Members, and not least in this debate, we have tried to prove and convince those concerned that the right to a referendum is undemocratically limited to the fact that this right is not forfeited to the people and that the quorum is set so low that it will still be possible to prevent the law which most of the participants in the referendum opposes. I would therefore like to see these issues, which will continue to be decided by the Constitutional Court at the end of the day, more uniformly than now the dissatisfaction of the advocates of direct democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u21	Thank you, too. The word has Mrs. Janja Klasinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm often reluctant to discuss things with my colleague Majda Potrate, because we think so much about things so much that we can repeat each other several times. So I'm going to change some of the theses that I've prepared for today's conversation. First, I would think about the wishes and goals that Slovenian Constitution founders wanted to achieve more than two decades ago, when they wrote this part about the application of direct democracy or the referendum regime. At the time, in the framework of the former Yugoslavia, Slovenia was quite inclined to involve the public in decision-making, of course, significantly less than it is now, but more. There was also a period of self-governance, and it seemed logical in itself that in the new Parliamentary regime we must ensure that people have the greatest possible impact on decision-making in society. That was all nice and all right, but what if that desire was born and abused? And who abused her? She wasn't abused by people. She was abused by politics, by political parties. A political party that could not achieve what it wanted to achieve in the vote in the National Assembly linked to the work of civil society, to those who liked to listen to it, and was already the basis for the call for a referendum. I think the country would be in much less trouble if some of these decisions of direct democracy – now some of my friends, who are very active in civil society, resented me. But it wouldn't be, would it? If they had adopted the pension reform which had been written down at that time, they would have had significantly smaller problems and it would not have been necessary for the previous government to work so hard and re-work new reforms, which are worse than the previous ones, because the situation has already deteriorated and these issues have to be tightened. If we were to regulate the Law on Work in Black, if we were to then regulate the reform of the labour market, ladies and gentlemen, we would have significantly fewer problems today if there were no such referendums. These referendums will still be possible after today's regulation is adopted, not as it has been in its current form, but other options can be used. I think that, despite the fact that a good part of civil society is now opposed to our proposals today, most citizens and citizens think that this is a good thing. I think they've been proving this through the last 10, 15, 20 years, with their participation in the referendums. My colleague Majda Potrat took a few things away from me when she started listing everything we've decided in the past. I'd like to remind you of a referendum that seemed preposterous to us most of the time. In 2003, if you remember, trade unions and employers launched a referendum on the opening times of trade. And remember, the stores closed on Sundays. Then, all of a sudden, people were very unhappy about it. Why were they dissatisfied? The referendum was attended by 27% of the people and a good 57% were in favour. That means one minority has decided on the majority. Let us also let the Constitutional Court find that the implementation of this law has been unconstitutional, and today, on Sundays, we have reopened those stores that wish to do so. As some debaters have already said before me, the referendum is not an institution that is suitable for every issue of solving the problem in Slovenia. I think we led this institute to absurdity. We're in phase two now. We are now aware that we need to change something in this area and that political parties must take responsibility and implement parliamentary democracy – but there is parliamentary democracy in this country, and direct democracy is assistance and an addition to this parliamentary democracy. And if all the political parties that lead the country are held accountable, if we include in our proposals the opinion of the profession and the opinion of civil society, if laws are not adopted in a swift manner, if we are to think twice about it, then we will also be adopting such legislation here in the National Assembly, which will then no longer have to be amended. As regards the comments on restrictions on the possibility of deciding at the referendums, I would like to say something. So far, 28 requests have been submitted to the Constitutional Court and 12 of these 28 requests have already been rejected by the Constitutional Court. That's 42% if we look at it. The Constitutional Court has already acted on the criteria, which are now clearly stated. I think that these are really key criteria, some of which have been in place so far, as my colleague has said before me, and we take into account the particular area of human rights, to which we are very sensitive in the Group of Positive Slovenia, and we are happy that we have also been able to incorporate this requirement into the constitutional law, and I am sure that those citizens who are protesting today against our adoption of the regulation will eventually realize that we have done the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u23	Thank you, too. The next debater will be a magician. Ivan Vogrin. But get ready, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. Mr. Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm not sure that the solutions in this marriage are good or all the solutions are good. I'll give you some examples. By law, we have taken away the possibility of the State Council to sign a referendum, of course. It's basically okay if you change my second case at the same time. The argument is that the State Council has the opportunity to veto the law. That's true, but this veto is its own purpose, meaningless, nothing changes. For according to the present law, this law can come only in the same form in the National Assembly and be confirmed by the National Assembly in one way or another. At least that's the case most of the time. We should introduce the possibility that the State Council has been working for 10 years to enable the State Council to read the so-called fourth reading. This means that he has the opportunity to propose a change of law and that the amended law is being examined by the National Assembly – then this solution would make sense. The solution that is now is its own purpose. I am not sure that the restriction of referendums, as proposed, is necessarily good. The case is Switzerland, one of the most democratic developed European countries with the highest standard, which has the widest potential to call for referendums, which it also benefits. We've restricted the National Council of Referendums. What does that actually mean? That we directly and not only indirectly admitted that we had abused the Institute of Referendum in the National Assembly for 20 years. Does this confirm the rule that Slovenians are our own greatest enemies? I don't see why. Are we really so irresponsible that 30 Members would not otherwise have the right to sign a referendum or to request a referendum? Next. The argument that only professional solutions are covered does not hold back, because for 20 years we have explained that we have professional solutions, that we have the best solutions, and these best solutions have brought us into bankruptcy in all areas. It's completely inappropriate at the moment. A long time ago, Maslow's principle is known that a person can only deal intellectually when he's sick. We're almost halfway to the Slovenians who are hungry. These people are not able to engage in intellectual activities, but politically, so the low participation in political life is because people simply care about how they survive. We have created a very inappropriate legislative framework in which the economy operates and in which the population must live in order to create and work, and this has brought us where we are — to a very uncreated society. For this reason, I think it would be more meaningful at this point to work on how we will actually reform the public sector, how we will eliminate nonsense and blockades. Look, we've adopted a famous principle every day that if he doesn't bring coffee on a tray, he'll be punished with 2 to 40,000 euros. Then, if someone doesn't work at altitudes or work at altitudes above two feet, he'll be punished again if he doesn't report to the inspection. These are direct blockages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u25	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Jerovska. But get ready, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have been deciding on extremely important constitutional changes that will certainly affect the development of the Slovenian society, which we know is in a difficult situation at the moment. Today's changes to the Constitution regarding the referendums I take as the bearable changes that I will support, but in my opinion they are totally unoptimal and I take them as a milestone in the current situation in the field of referendum legislation and referendum solutions. The current status or status of the referendum as such is a logical consequence of what has happened in Slovenian society. It is true that the policy has started to apply it for certain purposes, as well as civil society and other civil society institutions. But I can't agree with those who only talk about abuse. When there is no dialogue in society when there is no willingness in the ruling policy to engage in dialogue, which has often taken place in the time of the left governments, then the policy is used by institutions that are available. Far from being able to say it's just abuse. I would rather say that the abuse of this institute or the attempt last fall was when this society was already moaning since the crisis, when it was clear that something needed to be changed and when we could then change what we had previously changed today – the entry of a golden rule into the constitution. That attempt to block, the demand to collect signatures, and that one probably was a deliberate abuse that cost us dearly. Look, it's hard to talk about major abuses, because more abuse for me in the past period has been a disregard for referendum decisions. And such an exemplar, "per excellence", disrespect proved to be in the election referendum or electoral law that was at the referendum. Remember that the then leading politician, the leader of the parliamentary group, today the president of the non-parliamentary party, said that there was no God, no party president, no people who could force him to respect that. This was supported socially, and the sentence came a few years later when this party broke up or essentially went to a historical dump. Today, we must ask ourselves what Slovenian society would be like if it were not to be so eloquently violated by what the people voted on. There was a similar abuse at Sunday’s work, even though I thought the referendum was a little late. When we ask ourselves what would happen in Slovenian society – surely we would not be in such a crisis, because we would have more transparent governments, which, since then, in each mandate, would certainly change, which would be good if we did not build a network to the extent that networks have occurred in Slovenia since 2000, when even victory in elections that option does not bring to power, because networks in banks and elsewhere rule. And all of this was prevented by disrespect for that referendum. What was also the result of the request for a referendum on Sunday work was essentially because there was a conscious attack on the values of the Slovenian company carried out by traders in previous years, particularly in the interest of the current former President Janković as director of Mercator. There were financial interests and interest in changing the soul of the Slovenian man. What brings about the current constitutional change or the conditions under which the referendums will be called and the conditions under which they will be successful – I must say that I think the quorum of participation is high, in fact very high, and that it seriously restricts citizens' access to a positive outcome or to a successful referendum. But there's something good about everything that's bad. I hope that such a threshold will bring about serious changes in the thinking of civil society; changes in civil society, which will have to take more responsibility for projects and not be a girl after most of the left quasi-left which is often a power left in us, because it will have to be counted that some threshold that is relatively high must be crossed. The second consequence, which I hope will happen, is that we will all come to realize together that there is something to be done in this country on a civil conscience. For as low electoral participations as we have recorded them in recent years, and even more shameful are the participation in the referendums. Politicians need to ask themselves, intellectuals need to ask themselves where this indoctrination of the people has brought about, that it is without connection to participate in elections, that everything is the same regardless of who is elected, which is a conscious policy of the Slovenian left. Neighbouring countries, Italy, Austria as traditional democracies have a significant increase in participation. In Italy, in the last elections, 80 % was said to be less involved. Despite such participation in the Italian elections, many referendums are not successful, although they have been voted on, but are not valid because they have an even higher threshold for the success of the referendum in Italy. With everything that was happening in Maribor this year, then 30 or below 30% of the vote, despite the fact that the protagonists of that one have declared themselves a universal uprising, it is worrying and catastrophic. We must commit today that this negative indoctrination through the media will no longer go through any political option because it discourages Slovenian people from making decisions, from direct democracy, because elections are also a direct democracy. That the majority of Slovenian voters or electoral beneficiaries say that it is without connection to go through such direct democracy. This may embarrass us the most in Europe, the European Union. I don't know how others look at such a country and people who have significant problems where a policy option doesn't work, but there are new elections, and there is an extremely low electoral participation. We have to change that. If this happens, we will have serious referendums in the future, which will also be successful. There will be fewer, absolutely, because access to referendums has indeed been wrong, especially the non-limitation to any legal subject. This non-restriction was wrong. Everyone could have threatened because there were no such referendums, but they could have threatened — they were restrictions in the legislative process. All these consequences are felt today, so the professional solutions that are in here regarding the referendum are correct. I'm just saying, it would be personal if you had the power against setting these thresholds for the quorum. But that's the way it is. This is a political reality that we need to be aware of, and I accept this political reality, and I will support these changes, although I must say that, as everyone says, when the constitution changes with a shaking hand, we must keep thinking about it and say today that if it turns out to be blocking, directly democracy, we or our successors in Parliament can be prepared to do such things that are limiting, even change. Today, to go together, politics and civil society, in bringing about a positive change in society and at least in this area, the country will act normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u27	There will be a brief and concise debate of the Magi. Matthew Tonin, prepare for Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u28	I've got 45 seconds at my disposal. So, the source of dissatisfaction that stems from today’s debate of those sitting on the stand or watching us on television is more or less the branch from – I dare say – the ignorance of the true content. Dissatisfaction is more or less based on the passwords of how we take the referendum to the people, although not to the people, and what else could be mentioned. Many have convinced us and told us that, absolutely now that we are in opposition, we must not support these changes so that we can block the government when it does stupid things. But I turned it down because the story will turn around once, and this situation will turn around, and then the other side will be able to block us again, just like it did in December. This must stop once more and therefore once again urge people to attend the most important referendum, and these are elections where they can decide the key issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor and Mr Jani Möderndorfer is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I support the amendments to Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution. Personally, I would like to see these or similar changes come about years ago. I have a feeling that we are constantly missing something in our country, and today, in the debate on the previous topic, much has been said on this subject that we are late. Let us ask ourselves why we are late and who is to blame. With the changes that we are about to accept today, there are two things that I consider to be major. The first brings the power of politics and politicians to call for a referendum and thus reduces the possibility of so-called "fearing" and endangering the normal functioning of the country. Another with the introduction of the required rejection quorum of the referendum brings the necessary legitimacy, which in the past has in fact been with a minimum, but of course constitutionally permissible, the participation of voters has decided on laws that affect all citizens and citizens. Not to mention that some referendum respondents could really ask themselves whether they not only intervened, but also had a very strong impact on fundamental human rights. On the other hand, I am aware that people are particularly concerned about the restrictions on the admissibility of the referendum invitation, but I must say that I am not concerned about such changes as have been written down. Even vice versa, it seems essential to me that certain subjects relating to human rights, the security of the State and the basis for the financial functioning and stability of the State should be subject to certain restrictions. On human rights, in my opinion, we should under no circumstances have the possibility of calling for a referendum. On the security of the State or financial operation, however, he would be willing to defend the right to a referendum only if the requested quorum was set up substantially, significantly higher than we will accept today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u31	Thank you. I give my word to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, but at the same time I point out that the next debate is already by Dr Ljubica Jelusic. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u32	Thank you. I must say that if any debate took place very interestingly and without any major serious opposition, this debate was about constitutional changes in the field of the referendum, especially because we all know why we came to this change or to this debate. We have come to this debate for a simple reason because we have concluded the debate on the fiscal rule and a new field has begun to open up, where the need has been to speak and try to change the part that has been most abused in the last 20 years, at least in recent years in particular. Personally, I have to say that I was most surprised at the very part where there were signs that the referendums were being abolished by this act. I can say that the debate has made it very clear, and therefore I think it is right that even after the change itself, when it is established, we tell people very clearly what this change really means. We know that, during the debate alone, Nova Slovenija proposed a solution to the amendment of the Law on Human Initiative, where it proposed an increased number of options for the opening of the referendum, and also with the approval of administrative units. Of course, this discussion stopped. First, because these two are separate subjects — one is a change of constitution, the other is a change of law. Secondly, as most were convinced that the start of the referendum procedure itself should not be so difficult, because it can be stopped with other restrictions, if, of course, the referendum is not justified. However, the beginning is certainly not, so today I am pleased that it still applies that with 2 000 500 signatures without authorization on the administrative unit citizens and citizens can at any time begin the procedure themselves. The second thing that seems important to me in the matter is that, in the end, this reason has also won, that it has actually been with anchors that have been established in the same proposal, it is possible to make very clear what is what we can stop at the steps of the National Assembly. Not that each person can simply sign a referendum on any human right or on any other matter that is prescribed by law or constitution today and that is not an excusable referendum, and only then does he seek his own judgment and justice in the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, I am pleased that a very clear proposal or very clear position has also been put before the Constitutional Court, in which cases and when a simple referendum cannot be held. When we last attended one of the meetings of the Constitutional Commission, the question was asked of Prof. Kaučič if, for example, such changes as we are talking about and proposed, the last of the referendums of last year, the family code, or whether the Constitutional Court should stop or move on such a referendum. Professor Kouchich said with certainty. He himself is personally convinced that the Constitutional Court should stop him, and such anchors are set up today in these changes. Finally, let me mention that the latest survey, which was carried out in May, speaks more than figuratively of the fact that 60% of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia want and support these changes in the country, especially because they are convinced that the referendums in the last period of this country have started to take advantage and have been born, especially when we saw what the participation was and what the result was. Therefore, let me say that today is really for a good traveller of the country, that we can actually limit ourselves to the part where we say that we Members and Members have renounced this right and the possibility of citing the referendums ourselves. This is one of those decisions that I personally welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u33	Thank you, too. I give my word to Dr. Jelusic. The next debater will be Mr Jože Tanko. I would caution, however, that Mrs Maša Kociper will then reopen the debate of MEPs and Members. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u34	Thank you, President. I am very well aware that today's decision will change the balance of power between legislative, judicial, enforcement and, of course, direct citizens. Therefore, our responsibility for the legislature is strongly moving to the point where laws are being created and where an appropriate compromise in the appearance of the law is needed. We can no longer count on us to resort to a referendum at a time when we will not be able to exercise our will during the period or at a time when we need to exercise our knowledge and abilities in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I think it is certainly two important decisions today that will introduce a slightly larger constitutional or improve constitutional arrangements. If the writing of a fiscal rule in the Constitution means a certain limitation on policy – and this actually means that it is significantly narrowed by the manoeuvre in budget planning – it also means a referendum regime, a change in the referendum regime in one part of the policy constraints. For at least that minority part of the policy has sometimes taken advantage of the possibility of calling for a referendum on certain issues that it did not agree with, this option is now being eliminated. It also eliminates the possibility that the referendum would require the State Council, which is also part of the political space, and in this part I think that policy has taken an important step back in both constitutional solutions, saying that it has made a great deal of self-restraint. The right of 40,000 voters to call for a referendum remains intact. I recall these discussions on the Constitutional Commission. I think Dr. Kauchič said that if these referendum restrictions were to take place now, these criteria for the call for reference would not be met by just one of the referendums currently signed, one or two, if I recall correctly. Which means, in fact, that what has been announced so far would not actually have affected them in any way. All these referenda, which have been signed, would also be more or less referred to in these amendments to the Constitution. I need to respond a little here because some of you were talking about the abuse of the referendum. All the referendums which were signed were signed on the basis of a constitutional basis. In this case, it is not possible to talk about any abuse, but about the application of the constitutional right to call for a referendum. And those who have decided whether citizens or other organised civil society groups can also do political work have met the criteria necessary for the call for a referendum. All of these debates, which are linked to the fact that abuses have taken place in this field, I must strongly deny. There were also some indications or indications that some should participate in some of the referendums, which were also part of the reform processes. The pension reform of the Pahor government was mentioned. It should be known that this proposal was given at the referendum solely because of the demands of trade unions that have collected enough signatures. Then political groups defined the project further, which is perfectly normal, but it was a union requirement. I think we have recently missed a good opportunity to regulate the technical law or the technical procedure for carrying out the referendum. The New Slovenia initiative to take the initiative to open the referendum procedure in some other way, I think it was very correct, in terms of legal certainty or also reliability, because the registration of the decision under the request for a referendum would be carried out in an administrative unit in a verifiable manner. This would also eliminate all these problems that we have witnessed by counting signatures, by establishing the authenticity of signatures. We would avoid any suspicion that someone has signed instead of another, and so on, that what can happen at these signing stations can easily happen. Most people know their neighbors, they know their data anyway, and there's a lot of things to do, but it's not possible to see if anyone misused it if the data is technically correct. In the administrative unit, if the registration were to take place, this procedure takes place substantially differently and is highly verifiable. As far as the referendums are concerned, I think it would suggest that we continue to think about introducing a referendum day or a referendum day – this option is still open. There would be some rationalisation in this part, but there should be a will to that end. I do not think it is good that every time the conditions for the referendum are met, we follow those deadlines which are prescribed. As long as there is such an arrangement, we must do so, but I think we should also approach rationalisation in this area and probably get adequate support for it. It seems to me that these two opportunities have remained open, that they are unresolved, that we have not made any necessary and urgent improvements in the verification of those requiring the referendum, and that we have not made any necessary rationalisation in cases where the conditions for the referendum are met and we have cases where we can have two, three referendums in three weeks, 14 days or two months, which is a significant reflection of the procedure. In these cases, we could do otherwise. As for me, I will support the amendment of the Constitution. I think the situation is appropriate, including with our knowledge, knowledge of matter, along with the expert committee at the Constitutional Commission, this text has been formulated. If we were able to do better, it would probably be better – it is part of the text that was created in this proposal or written down to the exclusive insistence of some who, if we understood it at the time, would not be involved in this decision with a positive approach, but would be defined differently. In short, I think the timing and the situation are appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Jože Tanko concluded the debate between the Members and Members. There has been a slight change, so Mrs Maša Kociper will speak as a candidate, the Constitutional Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll be brief. Even after the debate, I am pleased to note that there is a very high level of agreement to confirm this proposal. Let me recall, this was also the case with the Constitutional Commission, where the proposal was endorsed by 18 votes in favour and no votes against. The current proposal, slightly modified by the proposal of the proposer, thus restricts policy and gives a referendum to citizens. It limits the Constitutional Court and gives greater predictability as to exceptions and gives greater legitimacy to the referendum by determining how many people must vote against the law. It is very important for the European Union that the blockades in our political decision be lifted, and this is one of the steps in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-24-SDZ6-Izredna-36.ana.u39	Thank you, too. I conclude the debate on Articles I and II. the division. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a constitutional law. Who wants to discuss the proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on three Articles I and II. the section and the Proposal for a Constitutional Law in its entirety. In doing so, I would like to point out that before we move to a decision, in accordance with Article 169 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of all Members and Members, 60 or more, are required for the adoption of the Constitutional Law. The same applies to the adoption of an individual article or section. We are moving on to a decision on Article 1 of Section I. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 1. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 1 of Section I has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Section 2 of Article I. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 1. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 2 of Section I has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Section 3 of Article I. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 1. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 3 of Section I has been adopted. We're moving on to decision-making on II. the division. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 1. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing it's II. the section adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Constitutional Law proposal as a whole. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 86 votes against 1. [[The vote was 86.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the Constitutional Law has been fully adopted. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 182 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Code amending Articles 90, 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia will be proclaimed on the 8th day following its adoption. I'm closing this agenda item. Before concluding the meeting, I would like to inform the members and members of the Constitutional Commission that the 3rd urgent meeting of the Constitutional Commission will be convened 10 minutes after the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in the Grand Salon at Šubičev 4. I also conclude the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
