ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Jasmina Opec, mag. Katarina Hotchevar, from 12 o'clock on, and mag. Borut Ambrožič and Mr. Peter Wilphan. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 20. On the seventh periodic report of the Ombudsman of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2011. The 17th Regular Report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Ombudsman. I give the text to the Ombudsman Dr. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik for further explanation of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! I am grateful for the opportunity that was given to me by the election of the Ombudsman six years ago. I am convinced that I have done my mandate and mission in honour and in the interests of human rights and fundamental freedoms of all the people of Slovenia. Today's presentation of the annual report consists of three parts. The findings of the 2011 Annual Report will focus on a number of points from the entire mandate, and I will close it with issues that will be present in the next term of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman. So far, in the introductions of the annual reports, I have tried to keep one hold on the current situation. In 2011, in the annual report, however, I deliberately crossed this seemingly barrier, as our findings from the entire mandate are also reflected in the daily issue. The questions I have raised in my previous assessments have, unfortunately, largely been left without a clear answer, although they are becoming more and more topical. I drew attention to the problem of poverty and the country's unwillingness as early as 2008. In my 2009 annual report, however, I wrote: "The first part of my findings is to ask whether Slovenia is still a social state. No matter what the social state actually means, I point out a number of changes that make it increasingly difficult for individuals or even prevent access to the goods that the social state is supposed to provide to all." I also wrote below the question whether Slovenia is still a rule of law country. These questions of mine have led to some formal responses, but unfortunately they have been without substantive changes. Like some other systemic issues that I have been pointing out throughout my term of office. In addition to the issue of poverty, environmental issues, labour and housing legislation, children's rights and others. We work with the guardian every day in contact with the initiators, in that direct human contact when we look into desperate faces and listen to stories that shouldn't have happened. They reflect the infirmity of individuals and increasingly reflect their social distress and demand for concrete material or legal assistance. The Ombudsman has the expertise, but he has neither the resources nor the authority to provide material assistance, so we can only advise people where to turn. But we've been there before. They'll tell us. "You are my last hope," is an increasingly expressed or written thought. That's how stories come about. Stories similar to those presented by the media. Stories that have become part of the protection of human rights should therefore be kept in our annual report. Please read them. The Ombudsman's powers are clearly laid down by the Human Rights Ombudsman Act. The Ombudsman’s primary task is to study the initiatives of individuals who report human rights or fundamental freedoms being violated. In considering these initiatives, the Ombudsman also identifies systemic irregularities. The Ombudsman is the only State authority to have an overview of the entire public sector and I can see how its individual parts respect the applicable legislation. Therefore, the Ombudsman’s annual report, which he is obliged to submit to the National Assembly, is a summary of the irregularities found and, at the same time, a report on what should be regulated and amended. I'm talking about the Ombudsman's findings and recommendations, which have much broader implications than it seems at first sight. In the first place they are intended for you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, but they are also useful readings for all employees in the public sector. At the same time, information is urgently needed to control the functioning of the public sector, especially the executive branch. The Ombudsman’s Rules of Procedure set out what the constituent parts of the annual report must be and how this should be dealt with in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The National Assembly does not decide on the annual report as such, but on the basis of the Ombudsman’s annual report, it shall adopt recommendations to the Government or the Executive Authority. It is interesting to follow the fate of the Ombudsman's findings and recommendations, as well as their consideration in the National Assembly, before which the Government must prepare its response report. The Government must also prepare a report on the fate of the recommendations contained in the previous annual report. When the Ombudsman's report is considered at a meeting of the National Assembly, the Government's representatives must be present. Therefore, it becomes more understandable why some of the Ombudsman’s recommendations are not accepted by the National Assembly, since if they are not accepted, they do not need to be reported next year. The comparison between the proposed and accepted recommendations illustrates this claim. I would like to point out that the Ombudsman's annual report can be of great help to the legislative authorities in controlling the whole public sector. For let us not forget, in addition to the legislature, the National Assembly has a strong supervisory function, which is more substantively closer than the Ombudsman, or in other words, the Ombudsman has access to certain parts of the State and local authorities where the National Assembly does not reach. Let us look at some of the substantive sets of recommendations in the 2011 Annual Report. The Ministry of Health promises a health reform every year, with a new Health Act and Health and Health Insurance Act being considered, but we have only experienced a minor change in the past year. In addition to the rapid changes introduced by the ZUJF, which brings together health care institutions and the Institute for Health Protection. At the end of the year, however, we are waiting for the free movement of patients in the European Union, and there is no debate on the necessary changes. It is unsustainable that the Ministry of Health has not for many years prepared the necessary amendments and additions to the Mental Health Act and even more urgent legal bases for the application of specific protective measures, that is, fixation with belts on the bed in institutions which are not intended for patients with mental disabilities. Thus it still happens that in general and nursing hospitals and in nursing homes, powerless patients are fixed to beds without a medical decision and without further supervision by the staff. The Ministry will also have to define itself publicly and legally to an ambulance for persons without health insurance. If the state is unable to provide access to health services for all inhabitants, I firmly believe that it should regulate at least the status of these outpatients. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is facing an extremely difficult mandate. All the warnings I have voiced in relation to increasingly visible poverty already in 2008 are still valid today, only that the problem has become much greater in the meantime. According to Eurostat 2010 data, one in four children in the European Union are affected by poverty or social exclusion. Two years later, the times are even harder, the situation is deteriorating, and the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights notes. Questions about poverty and how to dig out of it have also become the daily work of the Ombudsman. I must reiterate the inconsistent implementation of the so-called labour law, including in state-owned enterprises, in order to understand each other and the necessity of amending it in certain segments. There are too many non-payments of salaries and contributions, chains of employment through a wide variety of agencies and inadequate treatment of employees, with foreign workers still in a very poor and subordinate situation. Instigators also turn to the Ombudsman, as other free forms of aid to resolve their problems have already been exhausted. And then we find that the referral to the judicial path of the exercise of rights is ineffective, too expensive, and takes too long. For people who have lost their own resources, it is generally out of the question. This again raises the issue of their legal protection and the rule of law. We have been alerting the unemployed and their rights for years. Because of small formalities, we delete them from the unemployment register and thus artificially improve statistics, and we also take those rights that we would otherwise have. The need to complete the proceedings within a reasonable period of time has been reiterated by Slovenia by some of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. For many years, similar warnings have been given to the Ombudsman, since in such cases it is also a matter of greatly prolonging the personal distress of the affected. This is especially true of the judicial proceedings in which children are involved, for example because of sexual abuse, we have dealt with a case that lasted 7 years and for social and labour disputes. Such cases must also continue to require the removal of judicial backlogs. We have repeatedly stressed the importance of quality judicial decision-making. I also stress this time that it is only by issuing high-quality court decisions without undue delay that the judiciary can contribute most to the increase of reputation, while everyone else takes into account and implements legal decisions. The Ministry of Justice and Public Administration will have to deal even more with the overcrowding of prisons. This is also the case with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. This same court also points out that the accused State must organise its prison system by ensuring respect for the dignity of prisoners, regardless of financial or logistical difficulties. I have also repeatedly pointed out that the most frequent use of alternative sanctions would help reduce prison overcrowding. People tell us that they lack the possibility of free counseling and legal aid in relatively simple matters where it would not be necessary to engage a lawyer. Thus, they do not get the right information and do not use appropriate legal remedies or are too late to do so. In order to eliminate the length of administrative procedures and the non-compliance with statutory deadlines, and thereby to violate the right of access to the body, fair treatment and, in particular, the right to a decision within a reasonable period, more concrete steps will have to be taken. Public servants are all too often waiting for the final deadline for decision-making, in fact it is an extreme time limit, in practice it looks like something normal, similar to exceeding those deadlines. We do not have any data on the fact that public officials would be sanctioned because of their slow and ineffective work. The former Ministry of Environment and Space has acquired a new organisational structure within the two ministries in the current government. We have reported on the problems of non-response of organs in their composition on our website and also at the press conference. These formal weaknesses have also been associated with many substantive errors and shortcomings. Unfortunately, we note that the same problem continues in 2012. Despite different arrangements and promises, the Ministry does not respond to the guardian's emergency services, let alone to the citizens' calls. This is an unacceptable practice of this ministry, which is clearly resistant to both the exchange of ministers and the warnings of the Ombudsman and those of the European Commission. Environmental pollution remains at the forefront of the Ombudsman's attention to a greater extent than can be seen in the area of Zasavja, Celje Valleys, Mežiški valleys, and the urban plains. In the Ombudsman we examine how the State takes care of the implementation of the monitors and their proper interpretation, since the legislation allows the contracting authority and the payer of the monitors to be the polluter himself, and its ownership also allows data to be obtained in this way. In general, in the field of the environment, there is a lack of information on the degree of pollution, the vulnerability of people living in a specific area. As early as 2011, we have opened up the issue of the functioning of health care institutions, which is once again an ongoing one, which must also raise funds for their operations on the market. Do we really believe, when we mix public services and market activities, that this is how they care about clear health? Housing policy is still not adequately defined, there are no appropriate solutions or incentives for young people, pensioners and socially weak individuals. It will be necessary to change the role and importance of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, as it is more than obvious that its operation does not bring the objectives set. Most municipalities in this area do not play the role they have, that is to follow the needs, interests and wishes of their citizens and help them with housing units and non-profit apartments in distress. Even in 2011, the Ministry of the Interior, or the police, responded to our requests and conclusions and largely took into account the Ombudsman's proposals, opinions, criticisms or recommendations. The main initiatives also referred to the work of the police as a criminal body this time, and we note that the police are too easy to deal with the opposition of the offenders and the evidence procedure does not practically carry out, but simply summarizes the findings of the police officer and the statement of the offender. On the other hand, and this is very important, the police are one of the few public authorities that apologizes for the mistakes that have been made to the affected individuals. Praiseworthy and worthy of imitation. I would also like to draw attention to a general problem that concerns both the executive and the legislative branches of government and raises the wider issue of the rule of law. In 2009, the National Assembly adopted a resolution on regulatory activities to help prepare better rules and, above all, to increase their legitimacy, as it also envisages public participation in the preparation of normative bases. Unfortunately, we note that the resolutions are often disregarded, mainly by an excuse for urgency of change, which is later found in practice, and we are once again witnessing this with unnecessary complications, disputes and legal proceedings. I am convinced that the results of the analysis of the implementation of the provisions of the said resolution would be very interesting for all but, above all, instructive. I would like to highlight the permanent forms of the guardian, such as operating outside the seat, the functioning of the State Preventive Mechanism and the Advocate – the voice of the child. In operations outside the seat, discussions with the initiators across Slovenia are taking place, so I would like to thank the mayors and mayors, who have allowed us to meet people in their environment, because many have no means of coming to Ljubljana. Each business outside the seat is carefully planned and carried out in three parts. First of all, it is the short part, the conversation between the guardian and her co-workers with the mayor, the central part of the business is personal conversations with the initiators, each one is dedicated half an hour and the end is set by a press conference for local media. We have also introduced some new developments in the mandate. Although the State preventive mechanism is based on a legal basis, it was necessary to draw up sub-laws, prepare and implement calls for participating NGOs, humanitarian organisations and experts, to make a methodology for visits and to write a report on them. I warn, however, that the State preventive mechanism will need additional resources for its operation, at least the ones we have lost by reducing the budget. Work reports are available on our website. For the project Advocate – the child’s voice has been sought by the Ombudsman since 2007 to obtain his marriage basis. But we have not come beyond the drafting of such a law. More than 80 qualified advocates have been working for this. The report will surely convince you of how much children need advocates. A special project report is prepared and will be sent to the National Assembly these days. Cooperation with NGOs and civil society, which we call the Ombudsman's open-door days, is the least formal form of the Ombudsman's operation, but still gets a clearer structure. It is most visible in cooperation in the field of environmental protection in the form of more than twenty regular monthly meetings, the preparation of two expert conferences with international participation and publication of publications. It is this type of cooperation that has made it important to enrich the Ombudsman's operation and allowing the participating to have direct contact with the State authorities. I note that all these meetings are recorded in the form of records, the most important of which are transmitted to the competent authorities. The Ombudsman is involved in various ways in international cooperation, where he works at least three roles at the same time: as a parliamentary ombudsman, as a national human rights institution in status B and as a state preventive mechanism, which I have already mentioned. The Ombudsman is a member of various international associations and associations. The documents, in particular the legislative instruments with which we enter international space, should also be made available in English, but unfortunately they are not and therefore remain virtually inaccessible to international comparative studies such as those carried out by the European Union Agency. It is also important that Slovenia still does not take into account certain recommendations from supervisory authorities based on ratifications of the United Nations and Council of Europe conventions. There is an unfulfilled legal ban on corporal punishment of children, undue supervision remains over the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, similar to the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. Each time, the authorities are not aware that Slovenia's international reputation is also diminished due to warnings and recommendations from international supervisory mechanisms and decisions of the courts, which identify violations guaranteed by international treaties, to which Slovenia has also committed itself. Also, no government has so far turned on the green light for the establishment of a national human rights institution. The argument that there is no money for it does not hold back because most of the funds for the operation of such an institution could be redeployed from other budget lines. This is how they recently settled the matter in the Netherlands. Such institutions prove through research – and we warn that effective legal aid and social justice have become unattainable for ever more people. The same shall be noted by the Ombudsman in his work and also in all his annual reports. The Ombudsman has also been involved in monitoring the implementation of the universal periodic review, which is the most important mechanism of the United Nations in monitoring the situation and the direction of respect for human rights for individual countries. As a national human rights institution, we have made our contribution to the process of preparing the report and have actively participated in the evaluation of the monitoring of the recommendations. This monitoring should be carried out by the Interdepartmental Working Commission at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A representative of the Ombudsman actively participated, but the government abolished this commission last year and, to the best of our knowledge, rejected its re-establishment. Thus, Slovenia does not have a body to continuously monitor the implementation of the recommendations of the Human Rights Council. We really can't deal with this. I invite you to take a look at our website. Since 2010, we also have a working special website for children. Both websites and numerous visits to schools, institutions and similar institutions and events, where we actively promote human rights with our colleagues, remain a constant of our work and opportunities for direct contact with people. All this can be done only through the help of a good team of co-workers who are committed to their work and believe that by detecting irregularities and injustices and by keeping them informed, we make an important contribution to improving the situation in this area. And there's something else about the terms of office. We have flown to those who have not always been associated with human rights and fundamental freedoms in the way that the law understands, but have opened up a broader view of man’s personal dignity. Outputs from poverty, the right to a healthy living environment, the rights of patients with mental disorders, the rights of the dying and their families were linked to the rights of children, older people, disabled persons and disabled persons and their right to active participation in solving problems. We have updated the Ombudsman's website, published 37 publications in the Slovenian Sign Language and in foreign languages, all in order to bring the Ombudsman's work as close as possible to people who need our help. We were obviously successful at this because the number of initiatives has increased and reached the maximum absolute number in the Ombudsman's history of operation in 2012. However, the share of well-founded initiatives is also very high, about 25%. The current mandate will undoubtedly leave permanent traces in the form of projects, some of which will be translated into a permanent form of action, such as the already mentioned State Preventive Mechanism under the Convention against Torture, and others are the completion of in-depth work in a particular area, such as environmental protection, Roma issues, labour rights, thirdly as an expert basis for future legislation, such as the Advocate – the voice of the child. Unfortunately, the Ombudsman does not have the resources for his own analysis of how people are monitoring and evaluating him, so we have been guided by the collected responses of the Politbarometer, and you can look at this for yourself. We have dealt courageously with subjects that we could expect to run into disapproval of every single authority, and we have not changed our views. I am talking not only about the issue of deleted but also about many other issues in the field of children's rights, marginal groups, minorities and social issues, and the rule of law. We have often warned about irregularities in governance structures, and I am sure that we have done so in a determined but respectful way. The current guardian organization with four deputies seems to us to be the optimal solution. That we are on the right track is also confirmed by much larger countries, such as France, where they have reorganised their ombudsmen in the same way that we have. We have developed new working methods mainly in the field of the protection of children's rights and as a state preventive mechanism already mentioned. The new six-year mandate presents a number of challenges, although it is often a matter for the Ombudsman to pursue matters that have been dealt with for many years. All that I have already mentioned will also need to continue and improve control at all levels and to achieve greater accountability in the public sector, as well as in the functioning of local communities and mayors. One of the more difficult tasks will be to find ways for individual parts of the government, including the judiciary, to submit proposals for improvements so that the addressees not only understand them as an attack on their independence, but as an opportunity for positive changes. Lock-in thoughts. Human rights and fundamental freedoms need not only to be understood but also to be consumed with them, to think about them, and to constantly seek the best solutions for the affected. Human rights must not be divided into less or more important. Every violation is the worst for the victim. For such an in-depth understanding of human rights, not only is there sufficient knowledge but a respectful attitude towards victims of injustice and those who have caused it, since the Ombudsman’s way of acting is beyond the limits of legal standards, allowing personal contact with the victim and the possibility of proposing different solutions. In this way, we have achieved that the police have given and written an apology to the victims, which meant much to them, but unfortunately they have rejected this possibility in court, although the tragic event was clearly and undoubtedly linked to their conduct. While the Ombudsman is watching over possible violations between individuals and authorities, I reiterate that the way to a better, fairer society can only be achieved by respecting each other's dignity and dignity, regardless of their status and circumstances. Human dignity is the essence and at the same time an inexhaustible source of human rights. I've been in personal contact with people all along in different ways. The media used to tell me that as a guardian, I'm too loud and penetrating. Perhaps so, but only media exposure to the host does not exist and cannot be enough for positive changes. These can be achieved only through strong arguments and respectful dialogue, according to my experience. I conclude the current mandate by finding that the institution has continued its work well despite the reduction in the number of employees. That I'd end up in time. All the time, I have advocated a reduction of violence and it is interesting that I myself have become a victim of violence in the last part of my term. The country cannot and cannot protect me from the threat of death. That's what I'm supposed to do. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Alone, but I admit I don't know how. I tried to protect myself from the savages on the ski slope, but I was hit by an imprudent skier standing on the edge of the ski slope. As a result of the consequences of this accident, I ask you to understand that I will not be able to follow the session from the Assembly Hall at all times. I thank you for listening carefully and I look forward to a lively debate. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I thank the Ombudsman for the report and continue to consider the Commission's report on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities, which, as a mother's working body, has drawn up a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to President Tamari Vont to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! The Commission considered the Seventeenth Annual Report of the Ombudsman three times for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. We were very detailed. First time on October 5th. The reasons for this were repeated complications caused by coalition partners. The foundation of the plot was the Ombudsman’s recommendations, which were unacceptable to them, so they prepared their recommendations, which they failed to vote on. So at their request, we gathered once again to confirm them. Since the same decision should not be voted on twice and because I wanted to act legally as President, I have made new recommendations which were essentially a merger of the guardians and coalitions. Nevertheless, the coalition partners did not want to discuss them, nor did they want to vote, and they obstructed the point. In order to bring the report to the National Assembly, which cannot happen without the recommendation of the home commission, and since the Ombudsman is also due to the expiry of the mandate, I have called for a third meeting and we have voted on recommendations that express political power or voting. Members of the opposition pointed out that the proposal for a recommendation from the coalition parliamentary groups does not contain all the recommendations of the Ombudsman, as recorded in his report, and that this is similar to what the National Assembly would try to change the opinions or conclusions of other supervisory authorities, such as the Court of Auditors or the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. On the contrary, the coalition members felt that the proposal recommended an act of the National Assembly prepared and adopted by the National Assembly. We therefore voted first on the Commission's proposal for a recommendation, because it was more substantive than the second proposal, of course we did not accept it. We then voted on the proposal for a recommendation from the Slovenian Democratic Party, the National Gazette, the Democratic Party of Pensioners, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia and adopted it with 4 votes in favour and 3 against. An integral part of this report is a proposal for a recommendation drawn up by the Commission as its parent working body and will be addressed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the presentation of the opinion of the Government. Mr Helmut Hartman, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The General Secretariat of the Government authorised the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration to coordinate the positions of ministries and prepare information on the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the 16th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2010 and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the 17th Annual Report of the Ombudsman for 2011. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia contains a response from all competent ministries and government services and their report on the shortcomings already committed, which the Ombudsman has pointed out, on how to resolve open issues, on the description of the measures taken to address the problem, and on the indication of the planned measures to improve the situation in this area. Let me just point out some for a second. The legal regulation of the protection of the constitutional right to a trial without undue delay and of the Convention's right to a trial within a reasonable period – the Government has also monitored the enforcement of the Law on the Protection of the Rights to Judgement without undue delay. Thus, a new law was adopted in 2012 and this enforcement was also reviewed in detail through statistics, which was also run by our ministry. In order to better prevent the detection and investigation of economic crime, the Government has adopted a strategy for the control of economic crime in the Republic of Slovenia, the central part of which is the strategic objectives and programmes for their implementation, which also define activities to improve cooperation between state authorities and institutions. With regard to the poor housing situation of the prison sentence, I should say that the spatial situation has improved significantly over the past years in prisons, new buildings for the execution of prison sentences have been opened in 2011, and some other buildings have been renovated. There are also some new measures in the plans that will address the problem of overcrowding in our institutions, while efforts to tackle overcrowding will focus mainly on finding new alternatives to the deprivation of freedom and greater use of already legal options and improving and increasing the spatial capacity of existing existing institutions. With regard to the Ombudsman's recommendation to introduce more effective forms of assistance to convicts in post-trial treatment or in the final state of imprisonment, the Government explains here that this area has been incorporated into the cohesion policy strategy of the Slovenian judiciary for the period 2014-2020. Public concern for minority communities, including those included in the declaration of the Republic of Slovenia on the situation of national communities, members of the peoples of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which the National Assembly also pointed out in its report on the Ombudsman's last year's report, has developed a number of programmes including minority communities and a programme funded by the European Social Fund, which provides human resources for these minority communities. With regard to the many issues raised by the Ombudsman, the government explains that a new law on the implementation of foster care is being prepared this year, which, among other things, adds some of the powers of foster parents in order to facilitate the day-to-day care of the child. The Government has also given special attention to the protection and protection of the rights of children, as one of the most vulnerable groups in society. The project Advocate – the voice of the child, which is carried out through the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, was also highlighted by the Ombudsman. With regard to the area of public administration, I should say that the problem of post voting for those voters who were not in their place of residence on the day of the vote was prepared and unfortunately was rejected by a two-thirds majority. According to the Ombudsman, certain changes are also being prepared at the Ministry on access to public information. Finally, let me lay out the framework for the recast of the action programme to remove administrative barriers, where the notification of free legal aid is also exposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party as part of the presentations on the views of the groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, the Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenka Chebašek Travnik! We therefore have before us the Seventeenth Annual Report of the Ombudsman, on which we also find the key problems of individuals and groups linked to human rights violations and disrespect for 2011. The Ombudsman's report is a key document that records how human rights and fundamental freedoms are, in fact or in practice, exercised and realized. It is the Ombudsman who is called upon to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, in relation to state authorities, local authorities and public authorities. The Ombudsman's tasks today may be even more up-to-date and given greater attention, as Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman of Human Rights, is now leaving this office. However, the National Assembly must elect a new Ombudsman with a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members for a period of six years. It is certainly a function which is of paramount importance for the well-functioning of the rule of law and, above all, of a just state and society. But more on Friday, when we also decide on the proposal of the President of the State for a new guardian. Allow me to start by looking at history, then the common state of Yugoslavia, where we can say that a single-party system, with all its activities and actions, has grossly violated human rights related to purely basic human dignity. So we witnessed the oppression of any other opinion, and then the secret political police, or the State Security Service, followed and followed the Slovenes, who had a slightly different opinion. She followed them both at home and abroad. She was snooping through privacy, exploiting it and using it for her political purposes. Of course, the SDV has done much more, which we discussed and also warned the Commission about petitions and about human rights and equal opportunities years ago. Later in the early 1980s, however, a growing awareness began in Slovenia that respect for human rights and the creation of a rule of law, where one of the first requirements became a democratic choice in elections, was one of the most important components of both the individual, who was part of a wider society, as a group that had the fundamental right to express themselves differently, without being treated in any way differently or thus having consequences. It is not too much here to recall, at all, more and more hate speech and impatient behaviour in the public, which undoubtedly also reflects on the protests, and the unequal treatment that we should be, or should be, in accordance with the Constitution, which is the highest legal act, all equal before the law and that everyone is guaranteed equal human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material state, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal circumstance. Human rights should never and never be trampled on and should never have been influenced by different attitudes, factors, causes, in any way, by human dignity and integrity. Unfortunately, we're all too far away from this. But the question of human integrity is all too often tested. From the report that we are dealing with today, which we have before us and which we have already dealt with on the labour market, we can well see in which cases legislation is not respected. We can well see in what cases individuals most often turn to the Office of the Ombudsman. All those who have been more closely following the Ombudsman's work for years now agree, which is also recognised by the Ombudsman and has once written in previous reports that it is a very difficult and responsible task to do an analysis of the situation in the field of human rights. The Ombudsman must carefully weigh his views, be politically impartial, unburdened and, of course, have a strong sense of justice. The Ombudsman is the first person in the country to take care of respect for human rights in the protection of such persons exclusively and solely on the basis of the Constitution, declaration and resolution on human rights, international acts, conventions, laws, and not in any way on the basis of a possible dictatorship of this or any policy and their representatives. It is only in this way that trust in such an institution can grow in people, and above all, the Ombudsman must have the same criteria or if you want rules for all. This is especially important for the most vulnerable groups of people, such as people with disabilities, children, the elderly, who undoubtedly need even more careful treatment because they are usually alone in their tribulations. And here I must give credit to the Ombudsman who has kept the promise she made at the very beginning of her 6-year term, that she will pay more attention to those groups. That promise was kept by the guardian. In the report we have before us, the Ombudsman also writes: "The questions I have raised in previous annual reports are largely without a clear answer. Thus, we are still discussing whether Slovenia is a social and legal state, but we are still dealing with the issue of control." End of quote. Undoubtedly, it is a very important or even a key finding, given the situation we are in, which shows through individual cases that people no longer trust the institutions of this country, which is also reflected in the general apathy and attitude towards politics and politicians in general. How to cut this Gordy knot in order to create awareness and, above all, reassurance of the fact that individual institutions in the country are still the ones that will insure them when assistance and advice are needed. How can we restore that trust? This is a key issue that remains. That is why we have added a recommendation to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, or members of the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, in which we want the National Assembly to recommend to the Ministry of Justice, Public Administration and Local Government that, in cooperation with the judiciary, authorities should prepare, within their competences, measures to increase the confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law and to ensure the conditions for this effective rule of law. Why? I have already highlighted some cases on the Committee on Justice, recently when we discussed the work of the courts, where it is literally mocking the rule of law and the people. It's no big deal if I mention them again. First of all, it's the Balkan Warrior. As you know, Dragan Tosić was also fired here with some of his associates for the expulsion of evidence. If the evidence is good enough for foreign courts, why can't it be for Slovenian? It is known, for example, that Dragan Tosić also has good connections in Ljubljana's politics. Of course, it is a question of whether it is a truly legal or just state. House executions are also carried out for about 150 euros, for example in the case of Vaskršić, you probably know, while debtors for 3 million euros can postpone execution and move to Cyprus in the meantime. I would like to ask, Mr President, if you can calm the Members of Positive Slovenia so that I can continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u9	Yes, Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u10	Then Mr Jakič will be able to say in the debate and reject anything I have said so far in an argument. I don't think there's any problem. I didn't mention anyone at all, but if anyone recognized themselves, then you'll probably be able to argue that. So, I stayed with the executions. Let me say that even the executors themselves, as the single mother said between the edges, admit that in such cases they consider only relationships and acquaintances. And this is certainly not a legal and just state. Even today, almost nothing has happened in the area of construction lobby-related crime, although we all know that the construction lobby with its leaders is one of the major contributors to the financial situation, which has undoubtedly left many people out of work. I come from the Vipavska Valley alone or from Vipava and, of course, as a housewife, I find it difficult to see the situation when most of the former parade horses of the economy, such as in the Aydov municipality, collapsed. Among them is the construction company Primorje, which, due to the greed of owners and the timeless action, has also driven many people to the road because of the economic situation. Of course, it is quite clear in this respect that gentlemen in different administrations shared huge profits and also owned businesses, of course, all of this also at the expense of workers or employees who have now lost their jobs and thus have no adequate income to live with. And that's definitely not legal or, if you want, a just state. The respectable Ombudsman points out the various violations of workers' rights because it is indeed a major problem. Then we have judicial backlogs, but more about them later, especially in some selected criminal cases that accumulate year after year and are or will be subject to obsolescence. I'm afraid I'm going to be attacked again if I mention that it's business in Mercator, but I'm trying to only point out the facts that we know from the public. Then an affair between bankruptcy managers, which indicates some sort of bias between judges or the judiciary and bankruptcy administrators. This is supposed to be a legal country in Slovenia. To go back somewhere in 2004, because I think it's very important when criminals at the head of the Department of Economic and Organized Crime at the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office found a large number of unsolved or detained files. Of course, some things are out of date. This was a reasonable suspicion of detention of prosecutions, but Mr Ironborn has been legally pardoned. Of course, maybe it's a rule of law country, but I don't think it is. Then let's take a look at Orion's affair. Not long ago, we were talking about her. In 2010, Mr Lužar was acquitted of the offences of deterrence. Many in his company took unfair loans with high interest rates that they could not pay back and therefore lost all their assets. However, they were misled when the loan agreement was concluded. However, Mr Lujar of the Orion affair was acquitted of all crimes. And this is certainly not legal and even less just country, even for those who have been harmed and who have actually suffered a great injustice. I have recently asked the Minister of Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government about the implementation of the law on the confiscation of property of illegal origin. I wondered how unlawfully acquired property had been seized to this day under law. I was also interested in how many proceedings are under way with the competent authorities and how many proceedings have been initiated and completed to confiscate assets of illicit origin on the basis of legal convictions since 1990. Of course, the answer disappointed me greatly because the Minister of Justice replied that the law had been in force for less than a year and that no proceedings had yet been completed and no proceedings had been put in place to confiscate assets of illegal origin, which the Minister then explains by explaining that the complexity and scope of the investigation of the origin of the assets could lead to a long investigation. Here I must say that, in this work, the Ombudsman could also express her position, give an opinion that the judiciary has not yet begun to implement the law, despite the exceptional injustices and damage to state property and despite the apparent criminal behaviour. Here, however, the Ombudsman's response would also be expected. But to get back to the duration of the proceedings. Let me just mention that both the Courts' report and the Ombudsman's report point out that, in the first place, we are faced with the slow resolution of economic disputes, the slow resolution of criminal cases, the very slow resolution of insolvency cases, real estate enforcement and so on. Individual courts, that is a fact, do not control belong. The Ombudsman therefore points out in her report that courts must reduce the number of pending cases. We are also reminded of this by some of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. The Ombudsman explains in the report that for years he has been pointing out unreasonablely long judicial proceedings, which not only violate the constitutional right to a trial within a reasonable time period, but, as the Ombudsman warns, can cause or greatly prolong the individual’s distress. The Ombudsman shall in particular highlight the social and labour disputes and the judicial proceedings in which the children are involved. In particular, the area of new and outstanding insolvency cases, as I have already said, falls and the number of uncompleted insolvency proceedings has been increasing steadily and significantly over the years, by an additional 36.11% on average in 2011. In particular after 2008, when the law also regulated the possibility of personal bankruptcy of natural persons. On the basis of an analysis of the situation in the courts in 2011, the Supreme Court, precisely because of the too slow work of the courts, created five priority areas and five measures to implement them, which would improve the situation in 2012 in the area of reducing judicial backlogs, resolving older cases, speeding up business proceedings in the courts and unloading judges, not court cases. Of course, we welcome all such measures. In the section of Constitutional Law, the Ombudsman's Ethical section of Public Words, as it has been for years, also draws attention to the hate speech that is growing on both web portals and other media, and not least in the general public if you want it on the street. In her report, the Ombudsman points out, inter alia, that the public promotion of hatred, the call for violence or intolerance should be penalised as an offence. It points out that the Media Act in Article 8 provides that it is prohibited to promote any form of violence or hatred through the dissemination of programming content, but does not contain any penalty for violating such a prohibition in the event of a violation of this Article. Here I fully agree with the Ombudsman that this needs to be regulated, as also the latest cases, some media reporting cases, mainly related to protests in some reports and records, also work towards promoting and spreading hatred. In other words, in some cases, the guardian has responded to the hate speech, in some cases in my opinion quite vaguely and indecisively, but in some cases we have not heard her response, even though in our opinion we should do so. When last year, for which this report was also considered a year and a half ago, the actor Ivo Godnic spoke of the fact that the trench of St. Barbara had now been emptied and that there was enough room in it, it is known for whom, the Ombudsman had responded sufficiently and firmly to the statement. She said that Iva Godnič's statement on TV Slovenia in the morning was reckless and extremely inappropriate. It also contains elements of public promotion of hatred and intolerance and of demeaning, smiling and reducing the importance of serious crimes against humanity. However, the Ombudsman did not respond decisively and clearly in some other cases condemn the hate speech. Let me just say the case of Prime Minister Janez Janša. In the last period, we have witnessed many times writing and graffiti with an extremely hateful impatient speech and threats, such as "kill Janša", then "Zoki, kill Janša". Not to mention pictures, for example, of Janša with Hitler’s mustache and priestly cholera, which undoubtedly represents a marked hatred and impatience toward the person mentioned. The Ombudsman's response to these records, "Kill Janša, Zoki, kill Janša", was as follows, and I quote: "In hate speech, it is socially stronger to take the dignity of the weaker and the public office does not belong to the weaker." End of quote. Certainly an interesting answer, which today, we can say, results in the hanging of puppets from the Maribor Bridge by people who are in public office and can be done with them as they please. It can also be stripped of dignity after the Ombudsman’s interpretation because they are in public office. But here I think it's a dangerous thing to do. Undoubtedly, we should achieve zero tolerance for any such statements that clearly express hate speech and interfere with human integrity and dignity. For the first time in this report, the Ombudsman touched on the issues of those, although very briefly, who had been violated for years and years. I'm talking about material damage after World War II. Clearly, our efforts, as we have repeatedly warned from behind this booth, have borne fruit that this is actually a major problem. That is why, of course, in this part, I thank the Ombudsman that she has recognized this problem. The report touches on a wide range of issues related to human rights violations. Determine to lower some standard of human rights. In the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I have limited myself to some, and I believe that fellow Members will further highlight other cases of human rights violations, and perhaps I will continue to discuss them myself further. The recommendation we have adopted on the home working body is said on the Commission for Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, and we will support the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Lady of Human Rights with colleagues in the Chamber and on the balcony, Members of Parliament and Members! I will talk about the 17th report of the Ombudsman for 2011. The Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities is the mother labour force for the consideration of the Ombudsman's regular and special reports. For consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly, it is necessary to draw up a recommendation proposing measures for the work of State bodies, organisations and individuals performing public services or exercising public powers. This is imposed on him by Rule 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 272 of the Rules of Procedure for the regular report to be held at the regular meeting of the General Assembly in autumn. I therefore note that the National Assembly of this Rules of Procedure has not done so. The Group of Social Democrats, together with the Group of the Positive Slovenia, has tabled an amendment on the recommendation, because we believe that it is totally unacceptable that the National Assembly, which is charged with examining the Ombudsman's reports, will address the Ombudsman's recommendations to individual decision makers. Our proposal therefore covers all the Ombudsman's recommendations. In the response report, however, the government had the opportunity to explain what had already been eliminated due to the time-stretching of the report. For we see the report as a document of time, which is particularly important in the crisis, because because of the deteriorating situation, individuals may feel particularly threatened and unprotected. This is not the first time that the current government has had to respond to recommendations concerning the functioning of the previous government. It is true, however, that, for the first time during this period of consideration, the Ombudsman's report made it possible for the Ombudsman to present the report at a government meeting. We believe that the National Assembly should support the amendment we tabled. At the time of the submission of the report in the middle of last year, the Ombudsman stressed that the Ombudsman’s office was the only state authority to regularly meet people and their problems. In particular, there are noticeable mass violations in the field of labour relations where the Ombudsman has pointed out the inefficiency of legislation and the consequences of the failure to enforce the Family Code, and has reminded us once again whether we have realized that rights have fallen in the referendum on the Family Code and in particular the rights of the child. In addition to regular reports, the Ombudsman has so far prepared 8 special reports on various subjects, in addition to the issue of Roma violence in the family and deleted in 2004, issues of sub-laws 2002, tenants in denationalized apartments in the same year, treatment of prisoners in 1999, persons with mental disabilities in the same year and the exercise of the rights of owners of the fall for Slovenia in 1991, the report was prepared in 1998. I want to say that the Ombudsman, with special reports, specifically drew attention to those topics that either followed the roles of individuals or perceived them as particularly pressing problems each time. The report thus presents a broader state of human rights in Slovenia. Attention is also given to the international links and human rights forums on the state of human rights in Slovenia. It points out in particular that the report was written before the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on deleted persons, but that the findings of the Ombudsman, who was among the first to draw attention to the problem, are consistent with the findings in the judgment. Some 15 different topics discussed in the report are listed. There have been some speeches about them, and there will be some more, so allow me to draw attention to two significant things in the Ombudsman's report at this general review. The Ombudsman particularly welcomes the adoption of the Declaration of the Republic of Slovenia on the Situation of National Communities of Members of the Nations of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of which it was also established after the commitment of this declaration by a group called the Council of the Government for Issues of National Communities of Members of the former SFRY. But what happened? The government has abolished this body, and this is probably the contribution of this government to the consistent implementation of the good solutions adopted by the National Assembly. Perhaps there's something else you might want to point out. It took us a long time to settle the problem of housing in the law. Although the National Assembly adopted the amendment of Article 179 in 2011, it added Article 179a to the Housing Act, but this government proposed a law to balance public finances from which this article is drawn. I would therefore like to draw particular attention to the fact that some of the legal solutions that meant better solutions were greater consideration, more consistent consideration of human rights, that the National Assembly had taken a step back in this reference. In this regard, I would add that, at the end of the report, the table in which the roles which form the basis for the Ombudsman's report are allocated to five categories: there are no conditions for the Ombudsman's treatment and indiscretion. Among the cases resolved, there are 47.2% of those for which the Ombudsman has found that there are no conditions for handling matters. I stress this in particular because, already in the Office of the Ombudsman, selection has been made between the roles that have arrived and is thus recommended and all that is recorded in the report must be taken up as part of the roles that the Ombudsman must consider under his legal powers. While the government has recorded in its response report that it is aware of the importance of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, which are the fundamental values of each individual, the government will continue to strive to maintain a high level of respect and realization. This is particularly important in times of global economic and financial crisis when more and more people are facing difficult living conditions. This principled position, which I have literally cited from the response report, will, of course, be possible to verify whether the government will finally establish the world I was talking about, whether it will do anything to start implementing the National Institute for the Protection of Human Rights, or whether it will take into account a resolution on normative activities when introducing legislation. And here I am knocking on the conscience of Members and Members, who have the opportunity to constantly remind the Government of the unacceptable high number of laws following the urgent procedure, the laws following the reduced procedure, the non-involvement of the professional and interested public in the preparation of proposals, the ecclatic violation of the resolution on normative activities. Whether we are from the opposition or the coalition, we should require the government to follow regular procedures, that as many legislative proposals as possible be considered at regular meetings and that, where laws adopted in accordance with the ordinary procedure are to be dealt with at an extraordinary meeting without a prior appropriate public presentation of opinions or other consideration by the interested and professional public. In particular, I would like to point out that for many years the Ombudsman has been pointing out the situation of those who are without health insurance. This is so much more worrying because the urgency with which we adopt legislation prevents us from recognizing the problems we face in the most vulnerable groups of people. According to recent statements, at least 4 000 800 people will be left without additional health insurance and probably without adequate health care, only the most basic one to talk about the preservation of life will be offered. All of these are fundamental reasons why in the Group of Social Democrats we cannot agree to a selection between the recommendations made by the coalition and which out of the 106 recommendations made in the Ombudsman's report only 73 of those considered acceptable, and in those recommendations it has made some reduction or mitigation of the requirements, so that the government will not have to respond, since it has replaced, say, that the National Assembly calls on the Government, has changed it to propose or recommend. We do not have sufficient professional support in the Group to make an accurate analysis of all the recommendations, but for the period from 2066 to 2011, we can find that five recommendations are repeated from year to year. So all the governments have fallen so far who have not been able to solve these problems. Measures should be taken to prevent and sanction hate speech and to promote violence and intolerance more effectively in the protection of constitutional rights, as a true guardian. If we have different views of hate speech. In the case of justice, there are two such recommendations, which are repeated, namely, the reduction and elimination of judicial backlogs and the discipline of judicial experts in the event of untimely work. In the case of working relationships, strengthening the work of inspection services to better prevent and sanction violations of labour law. With regard to the protection of children's rights, however, the Government should prepare as soon as possible a legal basis for the establishment of child protection. The Fallen Family Code also did not lift the ban on physical and any disrespectful treatment of children because the Family Code was rejected. Compared with the 2010 report and the 2011 recommendations, there were 112 recommendations in 2010, I already said 106 in 2011. Among these little more than a hundred recommendations are 33 of those repeated. One third of the recommendations are therefore drawn from year to year. What will we do if we are not even prepared to support it? Now let me stop at those recommendations that the coalition has been correcting, and these corrections are unacceptable. The recommendation relating to the Broadcasting Act has been amended by the coalition so that it requires the RTV Slovenia Programme Council to adopt an ethical and professional code, which is also considered by the Ombudsman, and should clearly define the rights and conduct of software creators, and the coalition added that the Code must also define the duties of journalists and software creators. Recommendations concerning discrimination are very interesting. Perhaps we should say that we have received a recommenced recommendation from Europe to do something about the independent independent institution of the advocate of the principle of equal treatment. But the coalition drew up this very part of the recommendation. For this purpose, an independent advocate should be established who will have the power to investigate cases of violations of the prohibition of discrimination and sanctioning infringements in both the public and private sectors. In particular, I stress that this is unacceptable for the Social Democrats, especially because the Ombudsman can only reach the level of the relationship between an individual and a State institution, and such an independent institution could also enter into the relationship between an individual and private economic operators, for example. And so I could look at what has been changed, and I would only like to touch on that recommendation, which has already already been mentioned, the coalition felt it necessary to make a recommendation that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, in cooperation with the judiciary, that it prepare, within its competences, measures to increase the confidence of citizens and citizens in the rule of law and to ensure conditions for an effective rule of law. And I'm gonna end it. Increasing trust in the rule of law will increase when the holders of the responsible functions – in particular the executive branch of the authorities – show due respect for the various branches of the judiciary, to the various sentences expressed by the supervisory functions when they understand that each proposal for hearing is not a political conspiracy, but that we are all the same under the Constitution. Once some understand and accept this, it will be the first step towards restoring confidence in the rule of law. And I thank the Ombudsman, who was right in front of her work, for the work done on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, and I want good work for the Office of the Ombudsman in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Guardian, who is currently not among us, honourable Members, honourable Members, all the rest of us are present! First of all, I would like to express my concern as a man, a citizen and a Member of the epilogue, which we have heard from the Ombudsman. I want her to recover as quickly as possible, and I think that everyone in our country should think about such things. A high standard of human rights protection is an expression of the development of a democratic society, among which, fortunately, we can also consider Slovenia. We do not need to go too far to see the eccentric violation of fundamental human rights. At a time in which we are living, and which is, in fact, very long-lasting and deepening economic crises are marked by various hardships, the protection of human rights is all the more important. In such an economic and, as a result, political atmosphere, something quickly can happen to cover up the crisis against human rights — including the most basic ones — which can quickly be forgotten. That is why the word of the Ombudsman is very important in these times, and the conclusions he makes in his report are worth all the attention, in particular to us Members and Members. The Ombudsman's report has already been transmitted to all those State bodies where the work of the individual findings relates. In the reports discussed so far, we have been informed that some of the recommendations are already being implemented, while some can actually be fully implemented. This means that individual institutions, bodies, public administration services have already responded to the report and the Ombudsman's recommendations. Such conduct is, of course, the only right thing to do, so there is a special appreciation for those who have put forth their effort and will to change or improve certain things in their work. From the point of view of the Civil Code, the promotion of common human and social values is essential. This is also one of the fundamental principles on which we were founded and on which we work or work. We defend the right of every individual to free development and conduct, and this freedom can only be limited by the right of others. We also advocate respect for diversity, freedom of speech, respect for different world and religious views, and generally respect for all of us. Among the values that we value highly in the Citizens' List are tolerance, tolerance in dialogue, tolerance in conduct, and we see this value as the most civilized and democratic form of communication with others, including other thinkers. We appreciate the responsibility, and I stress the responsibility of all those who decide, because they must take responsibility for their decisions. In particular, this responsibility is important in relation to the State or authorities-individual. These and, of course, other values are, in different areas and in appropriate ways, affected by both the recommendations contained in the report and the recommendations to be adopted or endorsed today in the National Assembly. It is vital, however, how these recommendations will be implemented in the future by individual state authorities or competent institutions. It is up to them to find the right balance in the realization between the proposed, legal and, of course, possible. For these brief reasons, we support the report of the Recommendation in the National Gazette. At the same time, I hope that in a few years' time, the Ombudsman's report will cover only one letter stating that everything is okay and that there is no need for recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, all present, welcome! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we would like to express our thanks in the introduction to the position of the Ombudsman for his dedicated active work in the post of Ombudsman. It is also characteristic of your work, the respected guardian, that you have with your recommendations encouraged a number of positive changes in our legislation and the functioning of society. The report on work and recommendations based on the Ombudsman's findings in 2011 are very well prepared and systematically addressed all areas. All the areas and recommendations addressed are important, as each area has an impact on the quality of life in our country and on the rights of citizens and citizens and of all people in Slovenia. It is positive that certain measures and changes have already been implemented between the report and today's consideration and therefore it is not appropriate to repeat them in the recommendations. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal for recommendations that have been drawn up and formulated by Members within the framework of the four coalition parties. This proposal contains provisions or recommendations that are yet to be implemented and must also be brought to their attention in the National Assembly. All the recommendations and warnings are important, only the fact that the report was dealt with two years ago. In doing so, we are aware that even because of the crisis, many of the recommendations will not be implemented in a short time, even though they are repeated year after year. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also call on all competent authorities to take immediate account of at least those recommendations that can be taken into account immediately despite the crisis. One of these has certainly recommended that the adoption of laws and regulations should respect the requirements of the resolution on nomotechnical activities regarding public participation in the adoption of regulations. The same applies to recommendation 57 in the proposal of four coalition parties on the coordination of health care payment procedures between the Institute of Health Care and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. The recommendations in Chapter 10 relating to health care and insurance, in our opinion, can be taken into account despite the current crisis or precisely due to the health crisis. In the current crisis, it is certainly important to take into account the recommendations in the chapters of Social Affairs and Unemployment. Some of the recommendations can be taken into account when adopting amendments and supplementing the labour law which is on the agenda of our next meeting. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we hope that some cases from year to year in the Ombudsman's reports can be regulated by legislation already prepared in the field of police and justice and the environment. For these reasons, we will support the Ombudsman's report and the recommendations proposed by the four groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All present are well-welcome, especially in our midst I welcome the Ombudsman, Cebašek Travnikovo, with my fellow Members, and of course all the Members and Members who are present here. First of all, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, I would like to thank you for your dedicated and successful work, Mrs Cebašek Travnikova, which you have dedicated to the protection of human rights in our country over the past six years. I am sincerely concerned about your words in the epilogue of your speech, condemning impatience in our society and impatience with people who are responsible and successful in their tasks. I wish you to recover as soon as possible, good health and thank you once again for everything you have done for the Slovenians in this mandate. To focus on the position of the DeSUS Group on the 17th periodic report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and to say the following. We have heard many times that the concepts of human rights and democracy are synonymous. A society with a well-defined system of human rights and freedoms, and a society with an effective system of protection, certainly has a highly developed democracy. We can conclude on the level of respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the annual report of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman. Since this is not just a work report, the Ombudsman’s annual report is therefore of wider importance. The report clearly identifies the shortcomings and irregularities of the social, legal and political system of society identified through the different initiatives under consideration. If the policy were to advocate a serious and thorough examination of the report, it could improve the functioning of the rule of law, strengthen democracy, protect vulnerable groups and create better solutions to improve the quality of life of citizens and citizens. In analysing the multi-annual reports, we can see that there are quite a few problems that the Ombudsman reiterates every year. It is the need to regulate legislation in the field of mental health, Roma issues, the longevity of judicial and administrative proceedings, housing issues. The latter is still not adequately defined, there are no effective solutions or incentives for young people, pensioners and socially weak individuals. In recent years, the Ombudsman has highlighted the fact that effective legal aid and social justice have become unattainable for an increasing number of people, that children in need of child welfare are left without adequate treatment and that there is an increasing number of psychological violence in the workplace. However, the prevention and punishment of offenders are not properly regulated. In the DeSUS Group, we are concerned about more or less hidden violence against the elderly, which has been increasing in recent times due to the financial crisis and way of life. The growing poverty of the elderly, their material distress, and consequently their social exclusion are also worrying. Violence against the elderly occurs mainly behind the domestic walls and has many forms. The Ombudsman thus dealt with cases where the elderly were subjected to threats and blackmail, neglect, humiliation and invasion of their privacy. He also cares about violence when his family prevents the elderly from contacting other relatives, friends. Violence against the elderly is difficult to determine whether it is economic, psychological, or physical violence, since the elderly hide it and do not want to make it public. Violence also takes place in an institutional environment. This is an area of violence against the elderly, which is least explored, because it is difficult to obtain concrete data. In institutions there is abuse where staff are inadequate or inadequately trained because there is too much workload, shortage of staff and occupational burnout. The problems of older ones who are no longer able to take care of themselves are particularly pressing, and their relatives cannot agree for various reasons on who would take over the custody tasks. It also takes into account the wish of the elderly, which is, in fact, their right to decide for themselves, even when they need a certain amount of support and care. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the improvement of housing quality in newer homes for the elderly, as well as all rehabilitations and renovations of older homes that improve technical conditions and spatial conditions. One and two-bedroom rooms with their own sanitary facilities offer more privacy and greater respect for better quality of living. But there is no doubt that the quality of life in the home is contributed by the staff who provide care and care to the residents. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that older people have a lot of knowledge, knowledge and experience that society could or should take advantage of. The transfer of skills to younger generations is a process that offers excellent opportunities for intergenerational cooperation. The DeSUS Group believes that the Ombudsman's warnings express a real situation in the field of human rights and freedoms violations. For this reason, we will also support the recommendations made by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. However, as long as politics deals only with itself and neglects areas such as violence against older and child-friendly treatment, human rights in this area will be endangered and democracy in our country will be at an unappreciably low level. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Lady Guardian with co-workers, distinguished representatives of the government, dear colleague and colleagues! Human rights are a very broad area, and I think we have at least once a year an opportunity in Parliament to exchange opinions on the Ombudsman's report and make some kind of social analysis. In New Slovenia, the Institute of the Ombudsman is understood as a protector of the rights of each individual and is accepted with all due care. This is how we help to improve the system, as the guardian in her report tries to do just that by warning about weaknesses in society and the country: to improve the system. Members are obliged to monitor how citizens and citizens live and feel, and in doing so we have the duty to warn the government to listen to the report, to make things better and to correct irregularities. For with its power, it is difficult to detect problems or detect them only after the warnings of various organizations. Some problems, which are also reflected in recommendations to institutions and officials at all levels of the country, are repeated year by year. While the number of initiatives within each area is changing, in principle the Ombudsman faces very similar problems. In this regard, however, it would limit itself to two or three areas. The largest chapter of the report is devoted to justice. While the Ombudsman points out that the number of cases dealt with was reduced in 2011 and 473 cases were dealt with in the Office. Still, as has been the case for many years, there are great problems of judicial backlog. People are disappointed at the length of court proceedings and also procedures for granting free legal aid. However, it seems significant to us that the report notes that in several cases these delays are the responsibility of the initiators and the counterparties themselves. It is commendable that the first and second stages of the proceedings are being reduced and, on the other hand, it is worrying that it is still late to decide on exceptional remedies at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In New Slovenia, we stress that unreasonablely long judicial proceedings cause and increase the personal distress of individuals and violate the constitutional right to a trial within a reasonable time. In this respect, we encourage the Government to act quickly and effectively. Great concern is also expressed in the area of discrimination, which has its face in poverty, homelessness and in all the problems arising from it. The country's social policy is also reflected in its attitude towards the elderly, the disabled, the sick, the women with small children, the Roma and so on. Among the biggest problems is still the housing problem. It is difficult to get to apartments because of very high prices and lower incomes. Families and individuals fall out of the state of aid under different circumstances. They are often very poor, but their situation is not measurable, the immediate consequences of poverty are hunger, homelessness and a lack of basic goods, leading to social exclusion, increased morbidity and increased mortality. The first victim of poverty is children who are robbed not only of toys, holidays, clothes, but also of a healthy way of life in the safe protection of the family. Financial distress in families often also leads to increased violence and alcohol abuse. But it would be wrong to create only a black picture. It would not be right to manipulate and misinterpret this information in order to wake up in the morning at the greeting Good morning, poverty, as it had happened a long time ago. The state should go wide into the growing seasons of society, thereby encouraging a network of cooperation between all state institutions and NGOs that can do anything in this area, because state governance is too often unscrupulous and bureaucratic. In any case, I believe that there is a need for greater involvement of all government institutions, a better climate of solidarity and interdependence must be created, and there must also be an appropriate attitude towards the so-called parties, the managers' buyouts and other controversial problems that arise in this area. As the third and very important area of the Ombudsman's report in Novi Slovenije, we highlight the area of ethics of the public word. The hate speech, the call for intolerance and violence is unfortunately on the rise. That's also shown in numbers. The report states that in 2011, the number of initiatives taken in this area increased significantly, almost doubling compared to the year before. It is commendable to me that the Ombudsman condemns in principle all forms of public hatred and intolerance, which are resistance against individuals or groups because of their personal circumstances. In New Slovenia, however, we are disappointed in some of the more specific responses of the Ombudsman, who clearly pointed to the double criteria for the qualification of hate speech cases according to who their author is. In a modern democratic country, it is unacceptable to allow a particular social group to challenge, insult and encourage intolerance, while some other groups are warned by the slightest expressions of their own views that are not touched at all. The Ombudsman is expected to follow the highest standards for the protection of human rights and to carefully protect all social groups. Here we have in mind, in particular, the increasingly frequent attacks on Christians in Slovenia. Let me point out some cases. The so-called Central Slovenian Journal accuses Cardinal Rodet and treats him through all journalistic standards and does not even justify him at the time of the story. The same officer on the burning of the cross in Strunjan misreports. Also in New Slovenia, we warn that some professional people and prominent people are being discredited because of their religious beliefs. This is a matter of discredit based on faith, which, in our opinion, the Ombudsman should condemn, and unfortunately, we were just waiting for it. We generally support the work of the Ombudsman and also appeal to the future guardian or guardian to make the protection of the rights of all social groups equal to the first priority of his work.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz, on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear guardian, co-workers, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by stressing our position that the Ombudsman's report is a substantively appropriate material that presents such complex content in a comprehensive and transparent manner. On this occasion, I, too, on behalf of the national community, thank the Ombudsman for her highly professional work and, in all seriousness, the work done over the past six years. In my implementation, I will only deal substantively with the part of the report that relates to indigenous peoples or especially indigenous national communities. First of all, I would stress the continued positive shift in the cooperation of the Ombudsman's Institute with national communities or their organisations. On a number of issues we have tried together to find answers and solutions, which may be less visible from the report under consideration, but it was in 2011 that cooperation became even more intense, including the participation of the Ombudsman's Institute at meetings of the Commission for the National Community of the National Assembly. If we do a dry-cleaning analysis of the situation, the content of the Ombudsman's annual report for 2011 can only reveal some ideal situation in the field of indigenous national communities. The report states that, during the period considered, they did not receive initiatives at their headquarters that would explicitly point out a violation of any of the special rights guaranteed to the two self-government national communities and their members, which could be the basis for the Ombudsman's intervention under the law. However, the actual situation is much more complex and problematic than that acknowledged and stressed by the Ombudsman in the report. Unfortunately, violations of rights also occur in the case of national communities, but there are many systemic problems that people and institutions with such problems often turn to the Ombudsman. However, it also raises a question of when and in which cases the Ombudsman shall initiate the own-initiative procedure in cases involving those communities or their members. In particular, I would point out that in 2011, a considerable amount of attention was paid to the adoption of the Personal Card Act, which, according to the indigenous national community, violated Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, whether or not from the individual's point of view, but did not address the Ombudsman's Institute with such questions, nor did its institution recognise this matter as a potential content of its action. If we analyze the Ombudsman's report from the context of such deep systemic problems, we can highlight that part of the text when the Ombudsman cites at least part of the reason for the somewhat lacking action. It reads: "We believe that Slovenia has well regulated the situation of both national communities at the normative and institutional level, which does not mean that in practice there is no infringement, but that there is no Ombudsman for various reasons, and the Ombudsman has no human and material capacity to act more proactively in this area, as some specialised human rights institutions do." In the national community, we almost daily find inconsistent implementation of legislation, which is undoubtedly a violation of the rights of every member of the indigenous national community, so we will have to find a systematic way of communicating in solving such problems, within which the more express city must also receive the Ombudsman's Institute. The formal obligation of one of the assistants, according to our assessment, is not sufficient. Let me conclude by saying that it is very important, by the Ombudsman's establishment, to warn also in cases of hostile speech or other violence against the national community or its individuals, which has also been done several times in the past by the distinguished Lady of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs Tamara Vont on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you very much. In the position of the Party of Positive Slovenia, I would like to focus on the very essence of human rights, which in our political space has also had to withdraw from each other's accounts and accusations. For me, for us, the institute we have to respect is not an ideal concept, but it is the only one we have at our disposal. The same is true of a guardian or guardian who, of course, is not meant for himself. Every year, it's a shame to make this speech about individual cases, trials, pits, hate speech, if we don't follow the Ombudsman's recommendations, if we try our best to avoid it in critical areas, unless we talk about it, even do something — those who have to, those who have to. It is very difficult for me to listen to individual implementations because I feel a complete lack of self-reflection. Why speak of a violation of a resolution on a normative activity which must not take place when we have within a year 327 infringements of this title? It's an empty straw beating. No offense. The proposal for a new police law introducing new human rights violations, the ZUJF, which introduces new inequalities within the population groups. Poverty is a growing problem. On behalf of the crisis, human rights are placed on the sidelines. More. In the name of the crisis, they fight even more than they ever did at the moment when they should be protected most. Because it is wrong to think that human rights are not political treasures. If not, at least when they come to the National Assembly, when a report of their violation or disrespect comes to the National Assembly. The concept of human rights is supposed to be universal, global. We know it's not. In each society, it has a different face, even more so, for some faces it is more valid than for others, which is generally viewed as a fundamental breach. It is therefore a selective enforcement at global level that we do not yet speak at the level of our country. The Ombudsman's report is therefore a very important and talkative mirror of relations and developments in society. It is appropriate to take the recommendation extremely seriously and to do everything possible to ensure that it is not violated or resolved. It is unacceptable, however, that we follow the principle if it turns out that there is an opportunity for rain to happen so that the umbrella can be opened. We don't need that kind of recommendation. Therefore, the same themes always appear in the reports. It draws attention to the same violations, to the same groups of people, and the crisis creates new violations on the same groups of people and, on the other hand, creates new groups of people. The crisis has brought poverty to the attention of the guardian for many years. And we're really not ready for it. And that is why the Positive Slovenia, together with the Social Democrats, has tabled an amendment with recommendations made by the Ombudsman in her report, because it seems to me that this requires fundamental respect for her work and the work of the entire office, because she has a much better review of what is happening in society than we do, isolated in this Chamber, forgive. On this occasion, the Ombudsman and the staff of the office would like to thank you for your work, for your efforts, you have probably made some mistake, who is not, but I would basically like to thank you and appreciate that you have done your work more than well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and continue with the general debate of Members and Members. The first three discussers are Mr Dragan Bosic, mag. Dejan jedan and mag. Jana Jenko. Here you go, Mr. Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. I'll add some personal perceptions about the guardian's work. Of course, what Tamara said is our general position and our amendments with recommendations I support, clearly. However, despite the work of the Ombudsman, namely the consistency of the programmes, it is a quality that must be respected and appreciated. The parameters presented at the baseline are also included in this report as priority and care for the weak is clearly one of these priorities. I perceive this report as a mirror in this context of reflection, a mirror that allows reflection, but from the point of view of logic is one thing that is interesting. Those who cause problems are significantly more than those who solve them. This means that if a guardian is involved with his office in this regard, the problems encountered by those who cause problems are too high or too high. I would therefore like to refer to the predecessor, I think from the Civil Gazette, who said that he wanted the world to develop in this sense or the country, so that the report would cover one side of A4 and that would be all. With all due respect to the Office and the Ombudsman, I would like our society to develop in this direction so that this office is not needed at all and that we would not need a guardian at all, because respect for human rights would be a basic standard and a guardian or office would not be needed. However, it is still the watchman’s priority to knock on his conscience, given all the levers he passes, always knocks on his conscience in the end. I see a basic problem here if there's nothing to knock on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. He's a Jew, and then Matthew Tonin. Mrs. Jenko canceled the show.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, a particularly nice greeting for the Lady Guardian of Human Rights and your fellow Members! First of all, thank you, Madam Guardian. In the field of environmental protection, you have done a pioneer work. However, I believe you are extremely frustrated, including in the field of environmental protection. I've been following your work for a while. In this mandate, I have the honour to chair the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment and to identify the following. Even at one of the last meetings, where we reviewed the implementation of agricultural decisions and later in the field of the environment, the situation was worrying. In the area of agriculture, most of the things we have agreed on have also been negotiated by hand. In the field of the environment, nothing we agreed on has actually been realized. And what is particularly worrying is that we have observed and identified more or less similar problems than you have observed and very clearly written by you, a respected guardian. We don't have proper water protection. We take care of the air so we don't worry. We only implement the Water Directive by continuing to send bad excuses to Brussels and we are close to paying the penalty. With this report, you are a respected guardian, and in the field of the environment, you have found that in our country, ministers are not a problem. You've found that in the field of environmental protection we have an office that doesn't work, we have legislation that doesn't work. And the activity that should be something very important, something very beautiful, it is to protect nature, to protect the environment, so that our descendants will also live in beautiful and healthy Slovenia, simply that officialship does not do so. Things are lagging behind. Things are not just for fifteen days, as long as the officials have time to at least write an answer. Things are behind for a year or two or ten years and nothing is done. Your interview in Del 24 was very significant. 12. where you have assessed cooperation with various ministers or various offices in Slovenia. You complimented the police, whoever runs the police, you made it very clear that they worked very well with you. For the environment, you wrote or replied: "I hoped that things would change with the arrival of Minister Bogovic and things in the field of the environment would begin to resolve more quickly. The Minister has shown his will, but there is no change in practical terms." That's my experience, too. The minister understands things very clearly, he wants to solve things, and he has encountered a similar problem as his predecessors: torpedoing by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, let this part of the report be read well. Whatever coalition will be in three years, whatever coalition will be at the end of this year, the problems in this area will be identical. This is an area where all Members and Members must have a common coalition, this is a coalition of the 1990s, and we hope that we will at least make such a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Tonin, then Renata Brunskole and Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u30	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! When we talk about the protection of human rights, it is probably the easiest thing for all of us to lean on the experience we receive in our offices. At least I can say for myself that every Monday I accept a large number of people, and all these receptions are, in one way or another, mostly related to the protection of human rights. And in this past year, I could point out two segments of complaints or why people go to the office. One is the area of the judiciary and the other is the area of environmental protection. I will not be talking here about what the guardian might say and what she should point out, in particular, that will be discussed by my colleagues, and I think there will be a debate about this today. But when we talk about the protection of human rights, it is also right to hand over such a thing, which I think is also our duty, the duty of legislators to do everything we can to get these matters to order as quickly as possible and as best possible. And like I said, a lot of people come to talk and talk about ineffective justice because the proceedings are going on for five, six and many more years. During all this time, people lose their possessions, their families, break up families, and so on. Of course, it is very typical in Slovenia that we should not say anything about the judiciary and that it is some sacred cow that we must not touch, but I am sure that if there are problems, we should talk about these problems, because otherwise we simply sweep under the carpet and there is no solution. The next major group is related to environmental protection. I come from a municipality where there is a problem incinerator on Duplica. There, people have made practical use of all the legal options they have. They complained of numerous inspections, and this feeling of hopelessness is one of the most burdensome and causing people to be most disappointed. In order to invest everything, they do everything in order to end it without even being heard by state inspectors and seeking reasons for the opposite. These were two things that I felt I had a duty to point out to them and more in the following.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u32	Dear President, distinguished representatives, distinguished Lady of the Ombudsman, representatives of the Office, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! I will also support the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats and the Group of Members of the Positive Slovenia on the text of the proposal for a recommendation, of course also the Seventeenth Regular Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that the Office of the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman have done their work conscientiously, correctly and in the direction of protecting human rights and freedoms and the rule of law, but it can never be so good that it could not be even better. On this occasion, of course, I would like to thank Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman, and all her colleagues for the exemplary work, effort and engagement they have put into their work. Let me say that I myself had the opportunity to cooperate with the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman's Office as a representative of the local community, as mayor of Metlika, and I can say that the Ombudsman's Office, together with the Ombudsman, came to the area of the White Land just in time when the biggest layoffs of workers in the textile industry took place. At that time, the Belokrans and the Belokrans had the opportunity to present their problems directly, especially because they faced forgiveness, unemployment and great social hardship. At that time, people most need a conversation, support, and a common search for solutions to come out of distress. The involvement of local communities and local institutions is often insufficient. People want someone who comes from the country, as they say, to present their problems in such a way. I note that the report presents a very wide range of areas. The report is particularly important in so many ways that we can try to work more actively from it in future areas where the greatest shortcomings or violations of human rights and freedoms are detected. It is very important that, by the Ombudsman, activities are carried out also in those cases, as the Ombudsman said in her presentation today, and I quote: "The Varu has access to individual parts where the National Assembly does not reach." Thus, there are certain areas in which we do not have insight and access as the National Assembly. Failure to implement labour legislation. It's all too much not paying taxes and contributions. We are also dealing with this and are often discussing this in the National Assembly and reminding ourselves of the shortcomings in labour legislation. Delete. The Ombudsman also drew attention to the deletion from the unemployment register and thus to the improvement of the picture, which does not represent the actual state of unemployment. Implementation of the illegal dismissal of employees in certain ministries, as well as discriminatory treatment in the adoption of legislation. I am confident that in the next 2012 report, we will certainly have the opportunity to read about the infamous Zujf, as I myself call him, which discriminated against or separated people, especially pensioners, forfeited the rights acquired, reduced pensions and presented them in such a light that their reputation was placed at the lowest possible point. I imagine this will be in the 2012 report. The report we are considering today covers action in 2011. A fellow Jew talked about the environment. I also agree that environmental pollution and poor environmental information are areas likely to have an even greater emphasis in future reports. Also Monday's parliamentary questions, which some of us had the opportunity to listen to more active and longer-term, as well as answers, went in this direction, including in other areas. I myself would suggest that the Office of the Ombudsman should monitor the work of the National Assembly more closely, especially with regard to questions of Members and Members, as these are often questions relating to human rights and freedoms. We will also come one step further, one step further and even closer to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, because Members and Members of Parliament then present the problems that people, like colleague Tonin mentioned, are alerting us to in the sent offices. It's a housing policy issue. Unfortunately, there is still not enough incentives at state level, as municipalities facing the economic and financial crisis are not financially able to meet and follow the needs and interests of citizens. The problems of labour, health and social legislation will certainly have broad chapters in the next reports if things do not change for the better. The 2011 report also notes that most of the 2010 recommendations have not yet been implemented. It also notes that the preparation of the law — one example — on the long-term supply of carry-overs from year to year, despite the growing need for institutional protection and assistance to older people. The Office of the Ombudsman considers that it is unacceptable when new homes for the elderly obtain a concession to carry out social security activities and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia rejects the payment of health care, which is part of the activities of these homes. The Ombudsman also believes in the report that the new legislation does not prevent an increase in poverty. This was also discussed in today's presentation of the views of the groups. This is aimed primarily at preventing the abuse of the aid system, thus transforming professional workers of social work centres into supervisors of the property situation of individuals and their owners. And, as I have also pointed out in one of the questions I have asked myself, there is a fact that areas where the greatest tribulation is, areas that are demographically threatened, are even heading towards the abolition or reduction of the number of social work centres. This means that for people in the region of Koroška or the White Land and elsewhere, this aid will be even more distant. In this regard, too, the report is likely to be one of the points of possible violations of human rights and freedoms and the right of accessibility. Of course, in these centres, much more time is spent on supervisory functions than on advisory work. So that I will not be too long, there is virtually no area for him to go beyond the question of human rights and freedoms. I would also like the report from year to year to be shorter, not longer, especially in the part where we are talking about non-compliance, shortcomings and recommendations. After all, recommendations are always a good way to move forward. Respect for all generations of people, from the youngest, children, to our oldest generation, this is what we in the Republic of Slovenia need to give more attention to in the future. No one to discriminate, to separate, not in pensioners, not in children, not to separate from the rich and poor. Mrs Zdenki Cebašek Travnik, I thank you for the work done, also for all the colleagues in the office, with the wish that this report is a true reference, how the recommendations proposed for further work are best and as quickly as possible and used as effectively as possible for further work. And as article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states, everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms that all of us are equal before the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next, followed by Mirko Brulc and Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The guardian and members of the guardian's office, colleague and colleague! We are now facing the 17th report of the Ombudsman. It seems to me that I am all under consideration, given my status as a Member, because I have been sitting here in Parliament for 17 years, and I must say that the report is broader every year. If this is a reflection of human rights violations, it's a bad sign. In any case, I would appeal to the office, which remains in the majority composition, even with the new guardian or guardian, to concentrate, to focus on those current problems, because computer technology allows all addresses to stay, to stay and then to expand. We have the same disease in the budget and everywhere when no account is deleted and then it's an uncontrollable amount. So much for the technique. I must say that, at the end of the performance of the guardian lady, I was a little distracted because I did not fully understand the threat of death she faced when she said that "before the threat of death, the state cannot and cannot protect me, it should do so alone, but I admit that I do not know how". Then she mentioned the injury on the ski slope. I thought it was meant to be an attempt at injury, but from the context, there was only solitude and recklessness. However, I cannot agree with the threat of death; the country must try to protect every citizen. We politicians face anonymous threats, including death threats — even me personally. But I don't take these cowards who don't hope to sign them seriously. It's mostly cowards, but sometimes it's crazy, so you have to take those threats seriously. I want a good recovery after the injury. If I go to the content, I must say that in the year it states, worrying phenomena appeared, which I have detected by myself through people coming into my office, as well as in their political and other daily activities. We are discussing the early elections in the National Election, and I must say that I participated in these state-run elections for the fifth time, and that in my constituency, it was the first time that my client and I, as candidates, were faced with systematic destruction and theft of the pre-election boards and destruction. They robbed us for a thousand Euros of panorama, not to throw them over the fence and disable them, but to take them away. In addition, thousands and thousands of leaflets were distributed on the day of the electoral silence, which was propaganda against me and the candidate of the Slovenian People's Party. And this has never happened before. It was an activist of obviously left-wing parties. That was more than obvious. I don't know if it's their consent or not their consent, but it needs to be pointed out. Instead of making progress in democracy, we're going back. And of course there are other worrying phenomena. I would now like to say what is in the first chapter, constitutional rights, hate speech, intolerance and all that is actually more and more. I'm sorry. I think there is an increase in intolerance against people who are more visually more traditional, more committed to tradition. Here I think we do not receive the same treatment, the same sharpness of reaction sometimes by the guardian. Look, we need to update the links. What was happening in Maribor or is still happening. Let us leave the demonstrations, the protests that are constitutional rights and no one has anything against them, but the scrupulous persecution of municipal saints around the homes, and houses remind us of evil methods during the occupation. My father was thus arrested in April 1941 by the Germans, Gestapo. And there were also some Slovenian citizens, or then Yugoslav citizens. And these are sinister associations. I didn't track the nanny's response. I have traced the response of the public information officer and I think it is very necessary to set up here in principle. If this is missing because somehow the ideologies of this were some famous Mariborians of the left province, then this is wrong. It needs to be consistent. Then the guardian here responds to some of the things already mentioned by the performance of Ivo Godnič, who we know in what uniform he usually performs, whose values he takes, who otherwise thinks or not, sends people of different prowesses to Barbara's trench. And his actions, for which the court, by the way, had left the pursuit, also had a challenge in these protests. There, too, a similar banner appeared, and the media reported that Mr Ivo Godnic was also at these protests, I don't know if he was merely providing logistical support for such unheard calls and the unheard of intolerance that was reflected through this. Here I would like to say that with regard to the half past of history, some in this country obviously feel committed to owning partisanism and the positive values of partisanism, which I absolutely agree with, because I also come from such a mile, I have already mentioned that Father Germans were arrested among the first in April 1941. However, at some events, some of the current successors of the Union of Fighters try to impress themselves, so that only one can appear there. We have observed the impatience of the speaker in Dražgoša to the President of the Republic. I must say, I must commend that this intolerance has also been condemned collectively by political party leaders, including on the left, in the View show, where they made it clear that such a speaker and such impatience, when he does not even greet a guest – a sovereign state, is not an intellectual, even less critical intellectual. And all the rage in the mouth that was seen was terrifying. But we experience something similar or are told by others. Every year I attend the anniversary of the downfall of the Pohorske Battalion, where, as I have already mentioned in these mills, I also have a personal connection to the fact that my father was closed from Sharhov at the Siberian mills. But when they staged the Charles march on 27 April, which is also positive, a few years ago this was established, they are not happy with my participation. I was once last year, and I've been told by a number of people that the president of the Union of values fighters from the Russian Federation said, four reported to me that if I showed up, he would physically remove me. Probably because I had this personal relationship with Sharhi because they also claimed that I was from the German family. Unfortunately, such rumours are spread by some whose ancestors did not behave too well in the days of 1941, and they have expressed much sympathy for Nazism, now they try to be hostile, impatient toward those whose ancestors have always been overbearing. And I also feel that I am committed to human rights, patriotism is very principled and subdued. Then it must also be said that I felt extremely hateful intolerance when, two years ago, I, along with the other MP of the National Assembly, took the initiative to move these heroes of the Pohori Battalion. If possible. And some of the old revolutionaries are crazy about what we're doing. And it would be normal for these harmless heroes, the great, true national heroes, who fought so relentlessly to the last, to swim, if possible, that people could worship them on the spot. And there was an aversion at the moment. Here I would call on the Ombudsman to prevent such intolerance, hostility and impression-making, as if we were one, unheard of, political parties on the collaborator side, or let us say Styrians, when there was absolutely no such thing in Styria. In addition, there the Roman Catholic Church was also condemned to have acted wrongly, even though in 1941 all the priests were arrested and displaced. And there were no traitors among them. But here I don't see any official institutions against such impatience and preservation from year to year. For the first time, it is important to teach people who, say, in Styria under German boots, were truly conscious, but I feel a sense of pleasure in society when the facts spread, that such things happen. Then I must say that I have observed that, in 2010, at one of the ministries, the Minister has made a request for employees to provide information on their membership in civil initiatives. Imagine a minister of the current government doing a survey and asking questions and putting pressure on employees in ministries to do so. Although we have been faced with extreme intolerance over the past few months by some who consider themselves eminent representatives of civil society movements or some to be under so called because they are too close to some political parties on the left. Imagine what such a minister would have experienced. But I've only noticed it now in the report, and I read the papers every day. Obviously, our media didn't see it as pressure on employees, as an attack on them, as an attempt to influence them, as an ideological pursuit and so on. Look, there's more to talk about. I must say that I want the future guardian, of any sex, to have as much neutrality as possible, in fact, he cannot act even a little biasedly, although it is probably difficult because blood is not water, because political, ideological belonging is something very elementary, but we must achieve this in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u36	Dear Madame Guardian Dr. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik! This last report of yours, I am sorry that it is the last, because, as has been said, you are honorably concluding this mandate and I am sorry that we will not have the opportunity to cooperate further. I find it sad that there is no representative of the government, but I apologize to the Secretary of State, who is innocent, but that is where all the ministers should sit. I am aware that the Ombudsman's report is a thorn in the fifth government, not just that one, everyone, that it is an equally undesirable information officer, because it is a mirror of our society, it teaches us, teaches us, warns us and should be sitting here by ministers. When the Ombudsman was with the entire team in Novi Gorica, when I was still mayor, we were happy to hear their assessment and findings of how the terrain accepts the work of the city municipality. And we learned something and corrected the mistakes. These mistakes are always, always will be, but to some we can only avoid. I am counting that the government is not here because of the divisiveness in which it is, but if this is because of ignorance, then this government must leave this position as soon as possible. Infringement of human rights and constitutional rights, this is happening in life, and our task as Members and Members is to do so as little as possible. Unfortunately, we're not so lucky to be able to evaluate it that way. If I only remember the Ombudsman's contribution to the Family Code, even at the time he was sent to the referendum, he deserves all my thanks. The result of the referendum is only one – that I can catch a slap in the face of a child in school or on the street. The physical punishment of children is not prohibited. I will not say which former Member, doctor and theologian has worked hard, but what kind of slapping is no big deal. Now we should count whether three fingers or five should be known on the face. But I want no one to touch my grandson, no matter what rights are not guaranteed. Look, we're still dealing with the unresolved problems of the mobilisers in the German army, we're still dealing with the problem of being arrested by fascists and so on. But one thing is true, because we should solve these problems, these people are getting fewer and fewer and will not have the rights that belong to them. The second is whether we are dealing with history, with the Pohorski Battalion, with Sharh, with the SDV, or with the Owl, which is promising us with new personnel in the coming days. Thus, the 2011 report is very up-to-date and it is no different that we do not tolerate it in 2012 and 2013 and today. It's too much hate speech. I agree with what has been said about disaster when it comes to family, including the Prime Minister and so on. To allow this to happen is a disaster, and I have never wasted a bad word in this respect. And it's probably here to find someone. But it is equally absurd, dear Members and Members, that the Prime Minister sues the prosecutor and then colleague Irglov says that this is supposed to be Slovenia's rule of law. Yeah, a disaster. Then any bastard who's been caught stealing something and convicted by the D.A., can sue the D.A. and spin his cell phone forever. And if the highest people in this country don't respect the law and the constitution and the rule of law, then they better take the sense and goodbye. This is what we are talking about today, people dearly, about the hate speech, about the lack of respect for the rule of law, about our relationship with workers in the Balkans being worse than in the worst medieval times. True, they have a cell phone, they live in modern times, but exploitation, the persecution of Hilda But, Dusan Chernigoi, Zidar, who received 70,000 euros a month, but were not able to pay these poor people with that minimum wage. Takes should be persecuted. And I agree, the justice system has to work, for me, for those, for everyone. It's a family problem. As principal, I know what's going on in the apartment block behind the family walls. It's bad stuff. But then the sun's rays, the kids come to school, they're unsuccessful, they don't cooperate, the teacher goes to school, and in fact, he doesn't sleep all night, the dad beats mom, alcoholism, drug addiction, and so on. There is too much to do, and together with the guardian, we need to contribute to making these situations as much as possible. We'll never get rid of them, I'm sorry. But that's the way it is. The 2012 report will probably also be full of, I hope, assessments of what it means to ban the participation of belligerents in national celebrations because they have a star. Lord Jerovšek, you spoke of Sharh, hat down. But today you forbid those who have liberated this country from attending celebrations. What will the allies who fought with us against the invaders under the same star say? The new guardian or guardian will have a great deal of work to do. And that's what I'm worried about, that's what I'm worried about! The proposal is to adopt 73 recommendations. The nanny had a few more. I don't know why they fell out. All the recommendations she made should be adopted. All of it. And then maybe this report would be in the coming years, maybe an inch less thick, and that would be nice. So please, let's calm the ball down in here too, watch our words, watch our actions, let's not give negative examples to citizens and citizens. Because then, you know what saddens me the most when I look at these protests? You're all the same. No! No! Mirko Brulc wasn't corrupt, he wasn't, and he won't! Even if I beg on the street and something else, I won't! I'm not going to hurt anyone, not even my opponent's family. I don't know what, I'm not going to say anything bad. When you catch me, take my word for it. And then this guardian's report could be shorter. Mrs Čebashkova is not present, on my behalf I thank you, the whole team, you have done a great job, and I wish you success in another job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u37	Mr. Jerovšek, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u38	Mr. Brultz, I'm actually glad you mentioned me. But I have to tell you, though, life is the biggest dish of denied bread, and you've already eaten something in your performance. In the beginning, you said about the negative connotation of the Prime Minister, think about what it would be like for the Prosecutor to convict the villain and the bastard to sue the prosecutor. You have insulted Slovenian citizens and democracy, because we no longer have a system when the prosecutor condemns. This was at the time of the Dachau processes, the Visinian process through Eastern Europe. At that time, the prosecutor’s opinion was absolute and the heads of innocent people went. Remember who's in the Dachau process? Innocent people, the flower of Slovenian chemistry, because I'm just a chemist, lost his head. And you have insulted, you say that today the prosecutor condemns and is untouchable. About Sharh, you said, hat down. I mentioned earlier in some way the personal connection of my family to him and you linked it to the red star. Look, I don't mind if the star is wearing it or if it's worn by those who are solidaritying with it, I'm not disturbed in that sense today either. But it bothers me for political purposes, for ideology. And that's happening a lot today. Even with respect to Sharh, I have to tell you. Charha initiators, or those from Charhoe's march on their emblems, paint with a red star that was guaranteed never worn and was not a fan. I guarantee not. And this is the abuse of Sharha for political ideological purposes. Charch was a legalist back in Pohorje, he didn't know what and how, because of his legalism, I doubt he was a monarchist, but he said, "I'm the king's soldier." And it is very likely that these rumors do not mention that visits were made from the Communist camp and they saw that the battalion was not breathing Communistally and that it was probably betrayed. That's a very strong thesis. Neither were the postwar authorities interested in celebrating the anniversary of the Pohorski Battalion. Not at all. Now in a country of its own, it's starting to celebrate. And that kind of abuse is what a three-headed star wears.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u39	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u40	The Slovenian army was disbanded by those who advocated this dissolution, and now they are wearing a tripod with this symbol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u41	Mr. Branko Ficko, then mag. Hercegovac and Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u42	Have a nice hello to you all. We are talking about the Ombudsman's 2011 report, although we are already in 2013. We already have a new candidate for the new guardian, but we have not yet assessed the report and the work of the former guardian as if we do not need or respect this institution. Some of the new guardians' nominations have already estimated that we did not have a happy hand in the past, that some of the guards are just writing down, but they are doing nothing operationally, and so on. Estimates of the previous ones, according to their part of the report, have not yet been given. The normal process for the transfer of guardians should be an assessment of the entire mandate, open areas, conclusions, recommendations and thus ensure continuity, irrespective of the change of leadership, if we are to move forward. The Ombudsman does not have the resources, not the authority to provide material aid and so on, but I am only advising. This report should above all be of great power to us Members, to Members in the relevant legislative changes and adoption, and I am not sure that we are taking this into account. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the functioning of economic public services, in this case of chimney services, especially in view of the Ombudsman's warnings from 2009, 2010 and so on, but we still do not have these cases resolved, not to mention last year's case, saving the current government, since those who have already saved are being punished. I would conclude that, above all, on the basis of this report, we should focus on the future on the basis of recommendations, not to elaborate on and question the past, as Mrs Irgle said earlier about the Udba and so on. Well, given her age, she probably didn't experience it, unless she was thinking of a similar method. Mr Jerovšek, your words, otherwise I have no experience, are difficult to comment on. I would have previously taken you as one example in view of the experience of future generations, young ones who are not burdened with the past. I would congratulate the Ombudsman on the work she has done in her mandate, in the hope that, of course, the Members will follow the recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u43	Mag. Leila Hercegovac, Mr Jurša will not discuss, and then Mr Roman Žveglič would be.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u44	Dear President, distinguished Mrs Zdenka Chebašek Travnik, honourable Members and Members! Allow me to begin by thanking the Ombudsman and her team for their very well-done and hard work. Why is it hard? They have tried to maintain confidence in the rule of law and the good work of the Office in the future. Times are hard, but you can always do better. If problems brought to the attention of the Ombudsman are drawn from year to year by up to 30 percent, how can they work better? You yourself know that the last hope of the people is the guardian, and in the end the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, so their work is very important and must be a real cooperation. The Office of the Ombudsman shall examine individual initiatives and identify systemic irregularities. But we know that these recommendations are very, very valuable for us Members and also for the functioning of the public sector. However, I can tell you about the recommendations and health proposals made by the Ombudsman are very, very good, in fact, the problems we need to solve in our country. It draws attention to the rights of the child, to insurance, points out the law on mental health, warns and gives incentives for correction at the Institute of Health Insurance, then identifies the shortcomings of the patient's rights and so on and so on. I promise from this city that the Health Committee will open up any problem in the future on the subject of the Ombudsman's recommendations and proposals, because that is exactly what we need in health care. Thank you once again for the work done, of course I will support the amendments of my colleagues and thank you for your work so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat applied instead of Mr Jurša and then Mr Jožef Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would like to say the following with regard to Mr Jerovsk's remarks regarding the celebration of the fall of the Pohorski Battalion and Alfonso Sharh as the leader of this battalion or the age in this battalion and its sons. The Sharkhs are my kinsmen, I come from Russia and I must tell this respected national council that the celebration of the fall of the Pohori Battalion did not begin after the independence of Slovenia, but the Russians have celebrated it all the time since I remember. This day of the downfall of the Pohorski Battalion was a holiday years ago [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u47	Unfortunately, you must have been distracted by the timing, you have no more time than a parliamentary group, and you can no longer discuss it. Please, if you respect order, then you'll explain outside. Mr. Jerovšek, what did you want? Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u48	Colleague Poropat, I said that unfortunately in the previous system, the anniversary of the Pohorski Battalion was not the main celebration, even though it deserved it. In Slovenian Bistrica we have a memorial day, an event, I attend every year as well as you know. But the fact is, since there is no revolutionary background for the downfall of the Pohorske Battalion, it was not put first in the previous system. And also that, as I said, although most Rushans fell when I proposed a cross, if I could, and I think this could be done because the Germans had only had, even though these heroes were buried at the pea cemetery in a common grave, order and record of burial. So that would give it away. But there's a strong lack of interest in having these heroes buried in their homes. Mr Stannik reacted at the moment when I gave this initiative not to do so. Why not? Prešeren said, "It was impossible for the old Sibyl to die, that they brought her fingers from the house; one wish came true to you: in the land of the house the body lays down." These heroes of the Pohorsque Battalion, according to the old revolutionaries, should not lie home in the country. And that's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u49	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, then Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected guardian, your work and your attitude should be an example for all statesmen, for all ministers, for despite your health condition you are here today. Ministers, who should sit here and listen and participate in this work today, are not here today. At the time of the presentation, it was heard that the Ombudsman was protecting human rights. My modest opinion and belief is that the Ombudsman also points in particular to violations of human rights, of those who do so, and of those where it is done. And that is what you, the well-respected guardian, have done. I can conclude from the report that human rights must be protected everywhere, that they must be protected by all, especially those employed in public administration, in the state sector, managers and all those who make important decisions for citizens and citizens. The picture in the mirror set by the guard should be the priority of each government. This should be the primary and basic programme of each minister and ministry. And we should all be grateful that you set up this mirror and show them what should be done better, where mistakes were made, and violations of rights. Your recommendations and this picture should be used to prepare new programs. Not if we are not satisfied or not satisfied with each other with this picture, they want to replace the mirror. It's a big mistake, and that's not how it's supposed to be done. Your report is extensive and covers all areas. You have particularly carefully addressed groups that are most vulnerable. These are children, pensioners, unemployed and disabled. Today, there have also been a lot of words from those who voted against the Personal Assistance Act, which should have been in the National Assembly in December, so the government and the Ministry did not. These disabled people and those people who need help who are without the help of a normal life, you have denied these people this right. And today you are talking about human rights, respect for human rights and so on. It's a hoax. Your concern must be that you have not received or received an appropriate answer to the important questions that touch on social and legal matters in our country. This is a particular question and we must of course all think about it. In the field of human rights, we will take an important step towards improving when the rights of others are felt and felt by all and individually, and so live, respected left and right, and all of us here. Not that human rights are dead letters on paper that we can unfeel, so we must feel and so must live. I would like, however, to draw your attention to the special area, which you may have little, at least for me, has been underworked. And these are the rights of children in compulsory education. Primary education is compulsory, and here all children should have equal conditions, regardless of which social groups or families come from. Programs in primary school, which are compulsory or can be visited by individual children, are not accessible to some. I'm talking about school programs in nature, excursions, science days, and those programs that parents have to pay for. This should be in every report, and this should be a recommendation to the government and to all those who plan this education, that children have the opportunity and the opportunity to be properly educated. The protection of human rights must not remain a dead letter on paper, as I said, must not remain a problem of the guardian or guardian, it must become a constant in the life of every citizen and citizen of our country. For your hard work, for your good work and for your mission, I thank you on your behalf and on behalf of all those who have helped them, and for those mistakes and violations you have pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Vogrin and then Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Hall! I will be in my debate on the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 50 of the Constitution states: "The State regulates compulsory health, pension, disability and other social security and takes care of their functioning." What are we doing? We don't worry or cause injustice. I'll tell you exactly what and when and who. The Ombudsman's report is, of course, very extensive, accurate, quality, but the question is whether, at the time of the Ombudsman's institution, we have really protected human rights more or whether we are causing less systemic and other injustices. I highly doubt it. Why? In the last law on pension insurance, which we adopted by a large majority of course, we did exactly what the President of the Court of Auditors had last warned us that when we adopt laws, we do not foresee consequences and those who now pay their own insurance, their premium rose from 57 euros to 186. Approximately 300% and 270%! Look, we put people back in one state when they don't know how. Would it not be appropriate for me to be a little less wooded through the legislative process, but not like now? Every working day, on average, we pass one marriage in a year, because 170 laws have been passed when we count down Saturdays and Sundays, our vacations and so on, because there are no more working days. This means to reduce and more cautiously adopt laws. We have not already handled this matter well and are certainly causing injustice. We should accept a transitional period of one year in order for people to prepare. And we're doing it headlessly, and that's not right. Article 66 states: "Economic and social relations, labour protection. The state creates employment and employment opportunities and guarantees their legal protection." Is that true? But if we have more and more unemployed people, there are fewer and fewer wages! Did we do something? We had a serious discussion in a year of what we did in this national convention about how we're going to create more, or just who's left, who's right, who's got the red star? Look, unnecessary and harmful. In this national assembly in a year, we have not been able to have a serious debate on how to give people the opportunity to work. We have not been able, unfortunately, and this is also in some way a violation of human rights. They can't all move out of Slovenia. Before the German embassy every day stands a coffin of people looking for work abroad, and at home we don't do it. That's wrong. Instead of creating a powerful bureaucratic apparatus, we would start to reduce legislation, as the President of the Court of Auditors said, on purpose, I also rely on some other opinions that we have over-normalised legislation, which is too complicated, which is out of the question, and we would start to think about how we will create more. Should we let people eat adopted laws? Then keep going. Article 82: "Messengers. The Messengers are representatives of all the people and are not bound to any guidance." What is the attitude towards Members expressing their own opinions? What's that?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, then Franz Breznik and only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u54	Dear Lady Guardian with co-workers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the report of the Office and the Ombudsman, which is written on 431 pages. On the one hand, one would say, well, very carefully, all the violations, all the human rights shortcomings, and on the other hand, you just grab your head and say, "Where are we?" Where we are 22 years after the independence of this country, which is precisely why, one of the main foundations of this country was that the Slovenians did not agree with the major human rights violations in the previous country. And look, then we find ourselves not in 2011 but in 2012 and 2013 we are being debated by the Council of Europe, which is Europe's highest home of respect for human rights, except for the Court of Human Rights. Slovenia is being debated as problematic in the European Parliament, in other European forums, and this is the success story that lasted 20 years, and now we have brought it where we are. It was interesting today to listen to the opening presentations of all representatives of the parliamentary groups, how much they strongly supported the recommendations made by the Ombudsman, which she stated, and I imagined and said to myself: What a double morality. What a double morale! Look, I'm just gonna warn you about a few things. First time. The Ombudsman's recommendations themselves were not accepted on our Human Rights Commission because the majority of coalitions did not seem appropriate and needed to be "frozen". That's what we talked about today. Listen, the Ombudsman's Institute is an independent independent body, which has been appointed precisely to critically address the situation in society and also in state bodies. And now, in the National Assembly, we're going to be the ones who are going to talk, this could work, but this couldn't go, this is not the right word, and we're going to turn it around a little differently. It's a disrespect for the guardian's institute. Another time. Operation and respect of the rule of law. Some colleagues have already mentioned this issue today. If we, the officials of this country, and even higher officials than us, will not respect the rule of law, then no one will. This act by the Prime Minister when he accuses a prosecutor who does not accuse him but accuses him of being exactly everyone, then disrespect when the anti-corruption commission, both for our President and for the Prime Minister, finds some irregularities. Have you ever heard Mr. Jankovic criticize the anti-corruption commission? No, no, no. He said he was going to try to prove his innocence. Our Prime Minister is going to attack the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. What is this respect for the organs of this authority? Third time. The ethics of public words and impatience in society. One of the victims was even a nanny. Ethics should be home here. I am not most pleased with the level of debate in this mandate, but it is still very good compared to the previous mandate. We are the example of citizens and citizens who are watching today, then we must not be surprised that we are all "gotoffs" or done on the street. I understand these people. However, I agree with my colleague Brultz that we are not all alike and that this will have to be proved. Of course, this is evidence for each one of us, each individual, that he lives and works with dignity. Fourth time. Where I saw this duality, the Ombudsman recommended regarding the social state, the attitude towards women, children, the elderly and the socially disadvantaged. Yes, but who overcame these rights more than the current coalition with the known Zuyfu? Look what we've done to people. These are things the Ombudsman will report abundantly in the coming year. Already in the 2011 report, the Ombudsman notes that the next report will show a much more difficult situation than it was in 2011. Fifth. Respect for the resolution on normative activities, and this applies to all of us Members. Who in the coalition has a face here to say it's commendable. Yes, of course it is commendable, only the coalition has trampled these guidelines in the resolution the most. Look what we've been doing in the last year. In the drafting of legislation, this has started to happen already in 2011, in the previous mandate, civil society has ceased to be actively involved. Few ministers have tried to gain the opinion of civil society and professions. This mandate is no longer at all, God forbid, because everything needs to be taken overnight and we have been working here all the time only in extraordinary sessions, only by emergency procedures, as if they were an emergency. Has anyone here had a coup or something? You know, the whole of Europe is in crisis, and it's doing everything normal. And these are the warnings where we have shown the most duality. Now I would like to draw particular attention to two other problems that I have been dealing with for many years. The first problem is deleted. If our current guardian and current Ombudsman had not been very alert to this problem for years, people would not have realized that the most responsible people in this country had not been aware. And here let us be honest, not left, not right, we were not particularly honest in solving this problem. The Court of Human Rights had to sober this country to see what they had done to thousands and thousands of people on our own. Another issue already mentioned by colleague Potrat today is the attitude towards members of the national communities of countries from the former Yugoslavia. Those of you who have been here in the previous term, you know that we have accepted a declaration on the status of these members. I was myself with Mr Imp. I was the initiator of this declaration. This declaration is intended to allow members of the peoples and nationalities of the former Yugoslavia, who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are not on temporary work here, slightly more rights than they now have, in fact, only the right of a cultural expression. And look, we don't recognize them as minorities, because by our constitution, these people are not minorities. The Council of Europe reminds us that we should be a minority. But Slovenians, left and right, we're stubborn and they say they're not. And then we reached in this national assembly in great agreement also then the biggest opposition party, today the ruling SDS, that we adopted this declaration together with the votes and that they could get a special council with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which then Janšev's government immediately abolished. You know, these are the duplicity I was talking about at the beginning. Finally, like many other discussers before me, I would like to thank Dr. Zdenka Cebašek Travnik for his self-sacrificing work in all these years. I am sorry that she will no longer be in this place, but I am even more sorry to see that the new candidate for this city will also have significant problems. I hope that there will be no repetition of the practice in this country, as it has been so far, that we accept the Ombudsman's reports with a one-year or six-year delay, that we are having difficulty electing these guardians, that we are looking for those who are only on our own, but not at the level of all, and that we no longer respect the expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u56	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. First of all, I'd like to say hello to the Ombudsman with her cabinet, respectable colleagues, colleagues! This debate has one landmark or I can say interesting ostracism of all our common knowledge, some common values that somehow surround us and highlight our political membership in the National Assembly. Today, the debate was mainly in the direction of some experience, particularly Members, as mentioned at the beginning of the discussion by colleague Tonin. Also in my office are people, i.e. interested public, representatives of civil society, who point out violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms, often mentioned by the respected Ombudsman in her publication. One of the problems with the violation of fundamental human rights is the problem of our judiciary. This is mainly a trial within a reasonable time frame. But the second part goes, even on the basis of my experience, in the direction of the words expressed by a fellow Jew, in the direction of beating the human healthy environment. And here I agree with my co-conspirators. I could say that, in the event of a trial within a reasonable time frame, we also know a number of decisions by human rights courts in Strasbourg, which issued quite a few of those decisions in favour of the complainants, who are expressly violating their fundamental human rights. And I can tell you that we have in common the fact that this throws an extremely bad light on our judiciary. Today we have also heard, inter alia, a debate on the President of the Government, how he hopes to sue the state prosecutor in some case. Thus, some Members are made to know that the judiciary is totally free, that it chooses to make mistakes and that it is not possible to sue any of the judges or state prosecutors with some legal means. Look, this is the wrong judgment. It is precisely in these cases that there are those key divisions where we share some Members who may have a broader European experience within us, or an older generation that has lived in the totalitarian regime, and by their own interpretation of fundamental human rights and freedom, how this country should work, how the institutions of this country should operate. As principal, Brultz mentioned physical violence. In my place, too, I face physical violence in schools and families. Look, there was physical violence when I was only a little boy, ten, twelve years old, and then none of you, who were already in some teaching positions, complained to the former government or then the communist government, had any petitions, had no chance to write anything. So today it reflects that we are in a democratic system so that everyone can attack the President of the Government so that everyone can have their own explanation. They say human rights are also violated by civil society. Look, civil society, which has a legal interest and opportunity, can always come into my office, I have my number, as do you, respected colleagues and colleagues, and has the option of codecision, of course, if this is justified. However, the state or government is always limited to certain resources. Our basic condition is that, with our policy over the last 22 years, we have come to a 45-year base on 8 billion inputs into the state budget. This is our reality. What did we do wrong? Or in school politics? Would you also need a guardian of human duties? I believe that in our society we would also need a guardian of human duties, because our society has somehow gone in the direction of this country in these two decades, in particular, to see that positive European work, so I could say, personal well-being. And through this personal well - being, we have seen only our human rights and fundamental freedoms, and we are constantly forgetting our responsibilities to fulfill them. Outside of Parliament, I meet daily with comments such as "the state owes me everything," "nothing's worth it," "It's all out of the question, "I will be in school by the age of 40, the state owes me a doctorate, even though I will then work in the state administration," and at the end of the day, "the state owes me everything to help and I can't wait to go to peace as soon as possible." These are today's debates in this company that has lost some compass. Most of the time, professors, teachers from the university, who gave the most unemployed graduates to our society, demand more money and more effort. They never forget, however, that it is this money that comes from people who have not had the opportunity to come to college who work for four hundred, five hundred and six euros and also abnormal enrolment in colleges and everything else also affects their online payments. Did these people take responsibility too? Whether someone has taken responsibility for the 30,000 young unemployed is a structural unemployment issue, and we know that next year we cannot possibly get them into jobs. And this has been happening in Slovenia for 20 years. Look, all this time these graduates went to the public administration, and they couldn't possibly get a job in a normal economy. You didn't take any responsibilities either. And I say that society would also need a guardian of human responsibility to teach and explain what the responsibilities of a single citizen of a democratic state are. Because I think we came to this country and we were only looking for our rights. This is part of the debate. The second part of the debate is aimed at violating these rights. There was also a debate today about colleague Irgle's, czech, so much younger colleague than some of us here, she certainly doesn't know how Uda, SDV and everything else worked and doesn't have the right to say anything. The majority of Members go on a number of occasions in their debates during the Roman state, the Roman Empire. I believe you don't have the experience, as far as I'm concerned these years are concerned, so you're going to have a hard time discussing it. But I can tell you from my experience as a member of the first generation of the Slovenian Army, that, back then, in 1990, the data was that 25 000 people, Slovenes and Slovenes, were being tapped by Uba. It seemed somehow that all representatives of the local SDV had keys to each phone station, they opened up, they went in, they joined the distribution line, and they listened to citizens and citizens, as they were willing. No, Comrade Brultz, why didn't you complain to Mr. Stanovnik in 1988 or 1987 or 1986, when you were still a great privileged member of the previous system, why didn't you complain to Mr. Stanovnik about why they were listening to your cousins and cousins? That's the question today. That's how I see human rights. I also see human rights when, as one of the first people, in addition to my respected colleague with POP TV Jane Kobal, I solved the problems of our cousins who experienced an aviation accident in Corsica. For 27 years, the remains of our kinsmen and the cousins of Corsica were lying there, which was a great shame. Why didn't you decide in the previous totalitarian regime? Why, in 2008, at the initiative of me, Jurčko Novak and Jane Kobal took action and in six months, we cleaned up all these remains and set up one memorial board. Janez Janša never spoke at the time, and as Prime Minister, I kept my word and we did so within six months. Even today, I am grateful to him, such as the grateful majority of the descendants of all these people. That's how I explain human rights. But I'm always asked after this operation, and I'm surprised that we were able to do this in Corsica in six months, and I'm surprised at what this society is doing, how this society breathes, that more than six hundred graves in Slovenia killed people after the war are still not worth remembering. In what way are these human rights? I have also mentioned many times that it is a so-called special human right, I am talking about a five-year human right that does not go out with the legal nature of each individual, so it does not go out with his death, but continues after the death of every human being. And this right is somehow not mentioned in us, and I didn't track it in the report. Under a rule that is not written, there is no such thing as a violation, even though it is one of the fundamental human rights that exists also in the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. That's how we work. We do, however, primarily because we were living in some strange system, because the biggest problem with communism, unlike Nazism and fascism, was how much he was killing, on the other hand, he wanted to redirect and educate man. Raising to be a new citizen. And that was our problem. It is also interesting that I still meet people today, the authority of some of the Faculty of Law of the former totalitarian regime, which today explains human rights and fundamental freedoms. They were the authors of the former penal code themselves. And what is interesting in the Slovenian legal system, in totalitarian countries or in the totalitarian regime? That the country was the top of everything, and human rights and fundamental freedoms were at the back. This is in this legal philosophy of all totalitarian regimes. We all work for the state. The difference in democratic countries is that human rights and freedoms are fundamental to the country — except in those exceptional cases that are resolved by law. And here's our introduction, here we are weak, our experience is weak. We've only lived in a democratic state for 22 years. And we each explain these human rights and fundamental freedoms in our own way. We'd be taking from this suitcase, taking what suits our options, leaving the rest behind. And we explain each other in our own way. A broader context needs to be found and indeed all these rights and fundamental freedoms that have been violated for at least 70 years must be looked at. Apologize, as did the Nazis, to apologize, as he had perhaps fallen to his knees and once again apologized to the then President of the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. And that problem would be solved. I am also here to discuss as a junior Member, see, we have no problems with what a national liberation fight is. For me, as some partisan grandson, this problem has been cleared. I don't think there is any problem here in our Member State either. There is a problem, however, that someone, some option with less than a thousand people, a thousand members of the party at the time of the worst disaster for this nation, at the time of the attack of fascists and Nazis on the one hand, took advantage of the national struggle to come into power and establish a totalitarian regime. That's the problem. Here is the difference, only in this context is the difference between a Slovenian left and a right. And then someone parasites and the whole option parasites in the national liberation battle. It's something that's unacceptable. And why are we stressing this? Because historians haven't done anything about it in 22 years. They didn't tell us what the truth was. Why did we eventually lose Trieste, even though the partisans came to Trieste and stepped in? Because we have already begun to violate human rights and fundamental freedoms there. That was our problem. During the 40 days of Trieste we killed so many and so many fellows and then they were expelled because they were expelled, gentlemen, the satellite of the Soviet Union with the pattern Thank you very much from Trieste, please let us never see you again and you will never get it again! That was the truth, and it's gonna come the day. The sooner you admit, the easier it will be, the more historians coming after me, the easier it will be for you to forgive all those who still defend all these values. And this is a European ethical system. This is a difference, one part of a European spirit that has respected human rights and fundamental freedoms for the past 100 years, and the rest of you, in your own way, have been explaining for 22 years perhaps part of these human rights and human freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u58	Madam Vice-President, today we are talking about such a serious subject, I believe that what Mr Breznik was talking about is serious, but not today. Please ensure that today we will talk about what we are talking about, what is the state of people who cannot live today cannot survive and please ensure this. A man says something I don't understand, and I lived in that system, and I'm the oldest in here. So, some young colleague in here dares to talk about something that doesn't actually judge this subject or judge it any further. So please take care that we discuss the subject and that we will talk about what we are talking about today. That's not a theme.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u59	If I could just give you a moment to explain. The debate today is quite broad. Your colleague, Mr Brulc, has also spoken about fighting flags. I think that every Member in this Chamber has free will, what he will say and what he will not say, and everyone else will be able to respond. I don't think my colleague was offensive, so I left my word because the debate is wide, to the end. She now has a replica or she has asked for the word Mrs Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u60	Madam Vice-President, I'm sorry that my colleague has left the hall now. I'd like to say that I was misunderstood. Why did I say that I find it unacceptable that the President of the Government is suing the prosecutor who accused him? Of course, everyone has the right to sue anyone, including the prosecutor, including the judge, anyone, but I expect a public official to wait until the accused has proved his innocence in the trial, if he thinks he's innocent, and after proving his innocence, he can then normally plead guilty to the accused. Not in advance. That's the first part. As for the second part of the discussion, Mr Breznik. You know, that's right, every one of us imagines what happened when I was gone. I can tell you that this Yugoslavia was, on the one hand, extremely undemocratic and, on the other hand, Slovenia was part of that Yugoslavia which gave birth to human rights. And I, you won't believe it, I'm 58 years old today, but when I was 18, I demonstrated on the roads without any problems, no specials protected me, for the rights of students, even though I wasn't a student at the time. Then we threw people out of the Communist Union because they were unethical. I stepped out of the Communist Union myself because I thought it was a double morale of that party. Things aren't as uniform as they may seem to one. True, all of us have grandparents who have told us their truths, and it is possible to read from time to time some literature, both domestic and foreign.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. This, too, was a very broad explanation of what you were misinterpreted. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You have explained in a very nice, polite manner to Mr Meh that his intervention was unjustifiable. And I must, I feel obliged not to know if Comrade Meh is aware that he threatened to say that he had dared to speak, I don't know, probably was thinking of postmortem five-day justice. And that's a kind of threat. And I am giving a friendly warning that we should be democratic – on this side and on that side. He did not dare, has this right and his debate touched on human rights and fundamental human rights. If you have a problem with talking about a subject, it is your problem, it is a problem of democratic maturation, which is not yet over. But please do not speak and, Madam President, please warn your colleague in a gentle manner that he must not speak and threaten his fellow Members with what they dare to say. The threat to Parliament simply does not judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you so much for the heads-up. I think I have previously indicated to my colleague that he was very sharp in his words and that freedom of speech applies here and will continue to apply. Now let's move on. Mr. Just Bevk, then Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I didn't expect any special surpluses from my colleague Beznik, but it was a performance in his style or manner. However, I would like to point out or point out that today's lack of interest in the government and the ministerial assembly is similar to that of the Ombudsman's first reading of the report so many years ago and so many years ago, so I hope that any honour will be given to the Secretary of State who took this morning to cooperate with us in the debate. I'd touch a more specific problem. With regard to health insurance, there are barely about 4.5% of the initiatives in statistics, which I think is not so much because it is a very sensitive and specific area that practically affects each of us, as we meet daily visits to hospitals, health care homes, dentists and so on. It is interesting, however, that in these reports by the Ombudsman, I have never observed the problem of hospital infections, which are a very big problem in this country, or these initiatives are very rare, and I think that in the Ombudsman's report, which is very extensive, there is not a single human initiative on this subject for 2011. This is a major problem because many routine interventions end with very severe consequences, complications or even death, and the success of managing or not managing hospital infections is one of the most important indicators of the quality of a health institution, a hospital, after all, a home for pensioners, where these problems also occur. As it is said, hospital infections are the most common complications in hospital treatment, and according to some data, hospital infections in Europe affect about 4.1 million patients per year. It is estimated that due to the non-critical use of antibiotics in Europe, hospital infections are responsible for around 175 000 deaths. I have pointed out the problem of these infections, especially with the infamous MRSA bacteria, since 2001 in the National Assembly, and have systematically monitored this to this day. This is the first time I have opened this issue in the Ombudsman's report, and when I gave information to the then Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, in 2003, on the basis of some published articles, that 400 to 600 patients die at the annual level of Slovenia due to hospital infections, the Minister of Health, Dr. Keber, did not dispute this information. As early as 2001, a first national preliminary study was carried out in October 2001 at 19 Slovenian hospitals on the initiative of these discussions around hospital infections. The information that was known a year later, which was then also interpreted, was not the most encouraging. For many years we have warned that these research must be repeated. And indeed, in October 2011 there was a second national preliminary study on hospital infections in Slovenian hospitals. When I asked the minister responsible for this area in May and December for the health of Dr. Tomaž Gantar, he replied to me that, quote: "The second Slovenian national hospital infection study was coordinated by the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia in cooperation with the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana and the University Clinical Centre Maribor. All 21 acute care hospitals in Slovenia participated in the study. Data on all patients who were hospitalized for one day in October were collected in hospitals during the first three weeks in October 2011. And what is now worrying about this research is that, according to Minister Tomaž Gantar, this information will only be known and interpreted to the public this year, more than a year and a half after the survey. I think that this problem should also be addressed by the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, despite the fact that there was no formal initiative on the subject, which is particularly surprising to me that it was not, since it was a very large number of people, that I said between 400 and 600 deaths a year earlier because of the hospital infections and the very many complications that have arisen in hospitals. So I would appeal to the Ombudsman's Institute to deal with the problem of hospital infections in the Republic of Slovenia, not only in hospitals, but also in pension homes, where no cross-cutting research has yet been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic, then Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič and Dr Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President, and a nice greeting to everyone once again. Indeed, much has already been said today and much has been said about the violation of human rights, all human rights, and much is likely to be discussed, since each of us tells the matter most likely to be touched. And I would also like to start with this and all the things we are experiencing and hearing about in the offices of the Members. People come to parliamentary offices mainly because they are disappointed, they are looking for help, and I have met myself recently. One of the main reasons for the visit to the parliamentary offices is that all my fellow Members are also disappointed by the fact that citizens and citizens are just over judicial proceedings and the work of the courts. I'd like to talk a little bit more about this topic. Because of their hardships, the powerlessness has turned to various institutions, offices and individuals in this country. And so they turn to the Ombudsman, where they seek, expect understanding, and hope for relief from their distress. I have received many of them, saying that in most cases the Ombudsman's answers are that he has no authority to act in accordance with their wishes and expectations. In view of all these confessions that I am facing, I am raising the question of the meaning of this institution. Really. You know how many times you meet people on the street, even here in Ljubljana, and not just us in the countryside, who say, "So you've acted? The Keeper hasn't responded." We expect such better cooperation and, as I have already said in my position, equality with all. People also often say that when they first contact, they see that they are knocking on closed doors. I'm sorry. Citizens expect the Ombudsman to listen to them and use all his authority to resolve their problem. If I say my vision, I see the Ombudsman, in fact, as a matter of fact, familiarizing all the institutions responsible and their leaders and demanding action and a report from them, and also setting a time limit. Because really, everyone says, "We will," and then things don't go to the end. This is all too much in this country. And once again, I would just like to stress that quote if I read that the country should go wider into the wider social era by promoting the networking of all state institutions and NGOs. In any case, I believe that there is a need for greater involvement of all government institutions, to create a better atmosphere, solidarity in interdependence, so that we can move forward together and there will be no more heated debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President. The debate shows that Members and Members have very different views, views and even criteria when we are talking about human rights violations. Instead of accusing each other, I expected us to talk today about the 2011 report of the Ombudsman on solutions, what we will do to Members and Members, what we will do to the politicians to make these violations smaller and not more. The problem of the impossibility of Slovenian politics is in eternal controversy, instead of seeking solutions, we are doing everything to make the differences between us even greater. All of this is bad for all of us together and the only Slovenia. I don't know why so many returns to history back there. I see that some Members and Members have problems with the egotrip to simply reach out to another regime at some other time, even though we are talking today about the Ombudsman's report for 2011. I know that the roots are deep and that pain is also present for some today. However, whether we are not able to gather so much courage and wisdom and to cut through all these historical pains once and for all and to try to make us share in ours and yours, we cannot do this forever. Let's put something on the common denominator, what's good for citizens and the country, we need to unify, no matter what political parties or options we come from. Here before us today we have the guardian of human rights, and human rights have been violated for both the people who have voted left and those who have voted right and those who have not responded to the elections because the country has always resented them as such. Certain institutions must exist, certain rights must in fact be protected for all living beings. The state doesn't exist if it doesn't exist. And here's the National Assembly. Here is the temple of democracy, and here we are obliged to do good for those we represent, for our common country. The most at stake is the violation of human rights by those most vulnerable groups. For these people who cannot help themselves, whether the country is unable to provide them with the Constitution of guaranteed rights. People need a job. If they don't have a job, it's all wrong. They need a job, a fair, fair, fair pay for the job they've done. The problem of the crisis in which we are in, among other things, the crisis of values, economic, economic, we are creating yet another political crisis, rather than actually solving problems and problems and removing obstacles to a better life in the country. And it's normal for us to have violations. We have already adopted laws here in Parliament, consciously, despite warnings from the information officer, the Ombudsman and many other civil associations about mistakes. No, we are here in Parliament adopting a law and this law actually makes it possible to legalise violations of human rights. And the lawsuits go even beyond our borders, to Strasbourg, and I don't know which courts where people are looking for their rights and then prove it after five, six, ten and maybe more years. What is the life of these people? We are politicians in two decades or you are who you were, and today we are the ones who are slightly younger, responsible and responsible for everything that happens in this country. Only words and fine rhetoric of promises and conjectures were enough. It is only sad that our citizens and citizens forget too quickly everything that has happened, and they always fall back on the beautiful words, on the excellent rhetoric of individuals. We have seen here today, some have had a debate and immediately after the debate, even though they have come back, that they have had a good time, that they have pointed out some problems and problems, that they are advocating human rights, that they may be as few as possible, that they have fled the hall immediately, that they have not even listened to the replicas of those who themselves have misunderstood. You can see this game here, theater. We act in front of the public, we promise, and then we go. What's she doing here? Double criteria, triple criteria. What kind of politicians are we? Are we even worthy of having our own country, in which he has so warned, a violation? Here on the left, I have a colleague, Tamara Vont, who wrote about the number of violations of this and that. 66% for one ministry, for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, for the Ministry of Finance 81.5% of violations, not to mention the entire list of violations. That's what happens in the ministries. What are we doing? In fact, we do not respect the Ombudsman's Institute. But this isn't about the guardian. This is about all the things the guardian warns about. The warden's not a cop, he's not a local sheriff, or he's gonna punish someone and beat the shit out of them, and you can't do that. That's why we're politicians here to pay attention. And here's where it happened that the government coalition of 106 of the Ombudsman's recommendations took only 73 into account. And this one's done exactly what she wanted. We can't do this. If someone's right is violated by the Constitution, it doesn't matter whose voter he is. Let us once put on a common denominator, which is common to us, and let us unify why we are actually here. If not, we'd better not be here. I would like to be proud, but I am not proud to be a member of the National Assembly, because I see when I receive such reports, on so many sides, and when we find out who is violating, who is most violating human rights. Who? The country, politicians, officials and those who have been appointed responsible state functions to ensure that people in the country are satisfied. Then someone finds himself and accuses people of being too demanding to have a guardian of human duties and duties. I mean, you want to work. Who likes to sit at home today? Who likes to move home from left to right because they don't have a job? Nobody. Everyone's looking for a job. And if people had a job, a job, everything would be different. And if we had a strong economy in the country, there would be less problems in the country. We have to have education and health. No, we're on to this very thing, to education and health care, and consequently to everything else, including human rights. Everyone has the right to education, everyone has the right to work, everyone has the right to freedom. And it's all cut short if they don't have a job. This is where it all starts. A source of all problems is the inability of politicians and politicians to ensure what they have committed before the elections. When their mouths are full of promises, the Medes, what they will do for this country. And then when they win, they come up somewhere, they go somewhere far between the clouds, and they forget about the ones they circled in the elections. Unfortunately, this is our Slovenian truth and I will conclude with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word, prepare Mrs. Saša Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues welcome, distinguished Lady Guardian and your coworkers! I must say that once your report has finally arrived among us Members, it is also an opportunity to recall why we have, in fact, established the Ombudsman's institution in parliamentary democracy. Today, it seems to many that it is still unclear what this institution is doing. Interestingly, we are now wondering where is the guardian of human responsibilities and human responsibilities. We have forgotten that we are actually those who impose duties and responsibilities on people, just the people we sit here. Duties shall be laid down by law and by various regulations both in the executive and in the legislation of the authorities. The responsibilities are laid down right here between us, and the rights are defined here. But our way of seeing rights, responsibilities and duties is systemic. We look at people by not seeing individuals, seeing whole systems, health care, social protection, employment and so on. The guardian with her office is the one who sees the opposite side, who sees the individual who goes to people and listens to the stories of ordinary people and makes his systemic recommendations through them. Not only for us in Parliament and not only for the government, but for many of the performers of public functions, for all, for the last official and professional worker, both within the framework of the state administration, the public sector and within the economic institutions and, of course, the local communities. This report and recommendations are now heard not only by us and not only by us, but by all those in a democratic country who expect and expect us to treat our people as people of a democratic state. This is what the Ombudsman expects, and I thank her not only for the 17th report, but for all the reports so far, you and your colleagues. And these reports will always be thicker if we all act together in this country by choosing what you propose to do and what we leave to the successors or to you and your associates, to find out over and over and over and over again and over and over again in these recommendations. Colleagues and colleagues, our job is not to choose recommendations. Our task is to adopt recommendations to adopt a report to see deep into ourselves whenever we come here with different laws – and here I support the debate of my colleague Misic, earlier – and at each law we ask ourselves first whether we have contributed to the inconsistencies of our political system, such inconsistencies that we will also intervene in people's rights, or whether we may have listened to the Ombudsman's consistent warnings for years and previous guardians, where we make mistakes. In this report, a respected guardian, there are also some matters that are important for those of us who have been working professionally in the field of defence. I would like to point out the two warnings you have opened here, because they show how the country and the legislative system actually responds to all these recommendations that should sooner or later be reflected in such legislative measures. First of all, it is interesting to draw attention to one matter that has long been pointed out by the defence trade unions, namely how the travel costs of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are regulated. When a special document was produced in the Slovenian Army, the standard operating procedure was called, and this document was the result of many different regulations adopted by the government, legislation, and then various interpretations that were produced in the various predecessors of the Ministry of Public Administration, of course people found that when you put all this on the pile, there were huge violations of rights. And in this conflict between determining when you see a bunch of these rights and duties of people, it was clear that many officials in the state apparatus don't even know what they've accepted and what they're going to be defending in a few years. In fact, when it was necessary to determine whether those writers of the standard operating procedure in the Slovenian Army were right or wrong, there were no officials from the Ministry of Public Administration anywhere else to explain whether or not this was consistent with all that they had reported for years and years on how travel costs were being charged. And we Members are also part of the system of the unresolved issue of accounting for travel costs and various interpretations of how travel costs are accounted for. But the second question, which I thought in your report this time was extremely important and related to the ethics of the work of the professional, professional army, is related to the question of an officer who refuses an order to send work to the International Command. In your report, the guardian, you advocated that such instructions should not be subject to orders, but rather to a contract of work, as is the case with public servants. In fact, here, I don't know whether to or not, you have opened an important ethical question of the Slovenian Army: whether there is a possible objection to conscience in the professional army. That is, we know that the legislation is clear here, and we can resist such commands. The question is whether we can resist the commands that ensure the operation of the army. We have not had a serious debate on this issue in this country. And now we cannot say that we will not make your recommendation or warning because we have not yet come to terms with it. Sooner or later, we're gonna run into this problem. This time it was one man, perhaps in the future it would be more than one member of the Slovenian Army. And this problem will be when perhaps one day the addition of the Defence Act will come to this House, it will also have to be resolved in some way, and it will also have to be clarified whether the soldier is a soldier or a public servant. And by then your recommendation will, of course, remain in force, even if we want to or do not want to make a list of our accepted recommendations. In the end, the guardian's respect, let me first personally thank you for your personal efforts, because you personally went to many institutions to see what happens to individuals, what happens to people. And, of course, I thank all those who have worked with you and have worked with you all these years, have prepared many recommendations and have met many times the problems of our ordinary citizens. I wish you much success in the future, but I also want some wisdom for all of us, that we will see human rights not only through the system but also through man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Saša Kos has the floor, then Mr Janez Vasle is prepared, if Mr Vaslet is gone, is next Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I have been monitoring your work for many years or since your appointment since 2007, and I am sure that you have done very well. You have highlighted violations of labour rights systematically, as reflected in your annual reports. These reports show that the same problems, i.e. social, justice, arise for years and years. If I stop by the justice court for a while. Cases that are insurmountable in today’s court of law for twenty - five years and twenty - five years that children suffer in impossible situations where parents cannot agree at all or with the help of these various services come anywhere or are long - term and so on, women fall down the stairs and may still be listed. As long as justice doesn't work in this country, I don't think the other things will change. I am very interested in the view of the Court of Justice with regard to the European Community; that is, how many judges do we have for certain cases of employees and how much more does it open up to me, as did you, Madam Doctor, in your period. In addition to justice, there has also been a lot of hate speech, indicating the failure of public services, executive authorities and other public authorities. Therefore, it is also important that we today adopt the amendment that we have tabled together with the SD, which calls for the National Assembly to adopt all the Ombudsman's recommendations, as it is only in this way that we can assume that the responsible will be able to address all the human rights concerns raised. Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, I thank you both on my behalf and also on behalf of all the affected with whom you have worked and deepened into their problems, and you have also tried to solve in your own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Vasle has the word, but I can see he's not here. So, Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar and get ready for the mags. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Dear Lady Guardian of Human Rights with fellow workers! I don't need to flatter you, your five-year term, rich in your work, is running out, and this flattery would be meant to take you seriously, but I must say that from my personal point of view and from my personal point of view, this report, as well as the rest of the reports, could be assessed by virtue of this mandate period. Not because I would flatter, but because your service, your office with you at the head, has reached out today and in previous reports throughout the entire mandate to the deepest, widest pores of our lives. You found and found those problematic things that concern an individual, but as my colleague Ljubica said, we don't look at groups. Of course, we need to look at groups, but when we look at groups, we often overlook those individuals who suffer in certain situations where human rights and fundamental freedoms are violated. Your report has always been dealt with in the National Assembly over the years. There's always been a lot of debate, a lot of attack, a lot of concern, a lot of situations where we're surprised that our country is what we see in the mirror you're setting. However, there has always been a lack of concrete and real commitment in the debates on your report, not only to the legislative branch of the authorities but also to the other branches of the authorities who have done something concrete on this project or on this case or report. I will say that we are all responsible, we are all equally responsible here in Parliament. However, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition have a slightly greater chance of having an impact on the legislative and also on the executive branch of power, of course also on the court, because they are closer. It is from these colleagues and colleagues that I would expect them to talk a little less about this report today, to look back into the archives, to open up questions that have already somehow been part of our history, and to take a deep look at the situation that we are in here today, on this report, in the face of these violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to work specifically on these things in such a way as to adopt corrective legislation that will slowly cancel all the bad results that you report. Not to work for our client, Positive Slovenia, but it has also happened many times in this reporting period, which you are processing, that it is Positive Slovenia that has been making amendments that were the basis and were based on your knowledge, based on your recommendations made in the report. At the end of the day, however, we can see that the positive Slovenia in the opposition does not have the right to vote or, even if it votes, it is over-voted. Thus, our efforts in this regard would be less infertile than the anomalies you are alerting to. Human rights and fundamental freedoms are like happiness — when we think that happiness is caught, this happiness shifts to a step higher. You'll probably never run out of work. However, it is critical that what is also found in the report is that one third of your initiatives and warnings from year to year are the same. So, a third of them are not even substantially changing, they remain the same as the previous year and the previous years. This is a great indication of our work, the work of Parliament, the work of government, the work of justice and everything else. And at the same time, we should think about it, and there's no need to open up history, which is today's situation. I am aware that today there is a crisis, economic, financial, political, moral, social and what else I know, but this is not a situation in which we could be looking for an excuse, of course, it is a crisis, which is why things like this are happening. I also know that this crisis, the general crisis, is the closest relative to violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Therefore, we need to pay even more attention to all these things that you are alerting to. Once again, your report has repeatedly concluded the debate and concluded its consideration of what to do in order to make the report better in the coming year, so that fewer of these warnings and observations are rightly given to all three branches of government. So today, we should think about what we will do, which we will adopt in an corrective manner in our legislation, general legislation that we will achieve better results in the next term or in the next reporting period. Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik, sincere congratulations and expressions of gratitude for the fact that you have been very neutral, very sovereign and autonomous throughout the years of your term, alerted to those things that we miss many times in this great hall and do not see them. But you can see when people come to you worried, weary, and it is only right that at least part of this report, if not otherwise, you bring us to know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. A respected guardian with a coworker! I would like to develop today's debate in the light of social change, which brings with it a new value concept of understanding social or state responsibility in the formulation of sectoral policies. They do not seem to have a long-term vision, nor do they follow the real needs of our society or the European commitments and guidelines. On the other hand, in recent times past established practice and statutory recommendations, we have laid down, adopted legislation aimed at reducing collective social rights, including those which constitute a civilisational achievement of a society, which in fact means reducing the level of social security of an individual. Today it was possible to hear from the coalition how good it is to respect the resolution on normative activities. In the meantime, I looked at the website where the counter is updated, how many times this coalition did not respect a document adopted by the Government itself — 327 cases! Which means that the legislation was passed through a dialogue with civil society so that the legal deadlines were not respected and so on. This is the first test to look at only the normative activity that the government has fallen into this mandate. But I don't want to talk about this, because personally, this is not the most important thing that concerns the Ombudsman's report for 2011. In fact, I made an introduction because the Ombudsman in this report also pointed out that the questions raised in the past, in previous reports, remain virtually without a clear answer, after the vast majority. It is also among the important issues, and this has been highlighted by the Ombudsman as to whether Slovenia is still a social and legal state. The issue of poverty began to open in Slovenia in 2008. Even then, if I am not mistaken, the Ombudsman organized a consultation on poverty in cooperation with the President's Office in the National Assembly. If poverty was at the time, the figures in 2011 were alarming enough, so much more alarming that we should not have allowed ourselves to adopt legislation in 2012 that put additional pressure on people and means practically more poor people in our country today. It entered into force at the end of 2011 1. 1. 2012, a new social protection legislation was adopted. After this social protection legislation – I will give just a few current data – the situation has changed very much in our country. The number of children entitled to the child allowance shall be between 1 and 1. 12. 2011 and 1. 9. 2012 dropped from 373 thousand 744 to 281 thousand 138. The number of recipients of state grants decreased by around 13,000 at about the same time. The number of recipients of financial social assistance has dropped by around 3,000 — and you will not say that these people are living better today and that they are therefore no longer entitled to social transfers! That's not true! At the same time, at the same time, the number of unemployed has increased and we have reduced their level of social security. If I move forward, the number of beneficiaries of the protective allowance has decreased by around 70 per cent, with the protective allowance cancelled by 12 thousand pensioners due to the burden of their assets on the receipt of the protective allowance. These are extremely alarming numbers, extremely alarming! At the same time, we allowed ourselves, despite the Ombudsman's warnings, and in 2012, in the middle of the year, we passed the Public Finance Balance Act and further pressed on, I hope to argue, even the socially weakest in our country. I will give a concrete example, 26,000 pensioners, these are the pensioners who, according to the Government, no longer deserve their rights respected. Why? In this report, the Ombudsman made it very clear, on 254 pages, that the law or otherwise regulates the way pensions are reconciled with salaries and living expenses, but that it must not directly fall to the amount already paid, by a decision, of pension. And that's the part that's important. In short, the law should not, in the view of the Ombudsman, encroach on those rights already conferred on an individual by a decision. I wonder, because the Ombudsman also wrote in the report that the question of how much more we can believe in the rule of law today is being raised, why this matter, which I think is a priority, is sitting on the Constitutional Court for half a year to determine whether these pensioners have been violated by the Constitution. This issue is so much more important because, if I am not mistaken, we will be addressing tomorrow the correction of the ZUJF by the opposition, which also touches veterans of the war on Slovenia and their rights. Since the Administrative Court also stated in this case that, according to their assessment, the law should not be taken into account in the rights already acquired and the matter brought before the Constitutional Court again — a whole lot of questions are being raised! Indeed, it is sad, as the Ombudsman also notes, that virtually all warnings and recommendations run into deaf ears and that policy is not capable of adopting corrections under legislation, if not, at least for those who are most in the sky. Another question that I hope will be answered today by Mr Dolčič, Deputy Ombudsman, who is also in charge of this area, was a question that I have also raised in the working body of the National Assembly, which concerns the health insurance of children. I also addressed this question to the minister, both the ministers in question, and I received the answer that, practically in practice and in law, this is no longer a problem for all children to have regulated health insurance, regardless of the status of their parents. Personally, I think, and that is also the information coming from the ground that it is not so and it would make sense in the legislation to correct this part. That I won't make a suggestion in this part. I would also draw attention to that area of children's rights, which has not been regulated for years and years, practically in each report we read again how we do not follow European guidelines and requirements, how we still do not have a legal ban on corporal punishment of children in Slovenia, how we still do not have an advocate for children's rights in Slovenia, and how, unfortunately, when these rights need to be regulated at the normative level, we usually refer to the poor financial situation of our country. It's not right. I say that human rights must not be subject to the financial state of the country. Human rights are not dependent on the crisis; even more, human rights are under pressure in every crisis. The Ombudsman also opens up the field of employment relations in this report. Why am I opening this point? Because in 14 days in the National Assembly, we will be considering new labour legislation, which, as I am aware at this time, is not yet harmonised with the social partners, because, I am afraid, this new labour legislation will also be reintroduced again under some pretext that once we reduce the rights of workers, employees, on the other hand, we will encourage or open up the possibility that economic growth will almost in itself be able to develop, evolve. This new labour legislation, at least in the form in which it is available to Members and Members, means less rights, less social protection rights and less protection. And it is the worker who should be adequately protected in this process because the weaker party is in the process. In my opinion, this should also be the purpose of the human rights system or the protection of human rights in order to protect the weaker party in the process. And the country is the one that's strong in this case. So much because time isn't enough, and there's debate behind me. The report is absolutely going to be supported, and it is also reasonable to support the amendment that we tabled in cooperation with the other opposition party. Of course, all are reminded of the future when we adopt important laws, which, as a result, put pressure on human rights and less protection on human rights, to really consider how to vote on these laws. On the first test, as we have already said, in the coming days, there will be one such law on the agenda tomorrow, and on Friday there will be two exclusions concerning humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, prepare Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respectable Ombudsman, Mrs Zdenka Chebašek Travnik! Nicely greeted. I am one of those Members who, in the mandate of 2004-2008, supported the candidate Mrs Zdenko Cebašek Travnik for the Ombudsman, and I am pleased when we receive today, we are discussing the seventeenth report and giving all together good assessments of the functioning of Mrs Zdenka Cebašek Travnik for her work throughout the mandate. In a way, I also understand from colleagues that we have done only something good in the 2004-2008 mandate. I am not saying this because, with the Ombudsman, we are rooting in the same land on the left bank of Mure, but because I appreciate her efforts throughout the entire mandate. Surely her work was aimed at protecting human rights as much as possible, we are not an ideal country, we are not an ideal society, because if we were, the guardian of human rights in the state would not be needed. I wish we could create such a society someday. Is that possible? My friend Zanoskar says no. Maybe it is. The company is in fact a number of individuals. If we are in some way at least around and if we are and if we are the ideal people, then we will be an ideal society, then we will not need a human rights guardian. Perhaps someone will resent the fact that I am looking at myself and will look at the following in history, on the positive side: Slovenians, Slovenian society has always been extremely attentive to the protection of human rights. Last but not least, we were created just like the country. Remember what the preamble of the Basic Constitutional Charter says about the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. It is clear at the summit of the preamble that, on the fact that the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia does not act as a legally regulated country and that it seriously violates human rights, national rights and the rights of republics and autonomous provinces, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a basic constitutional charter at a joint meeting of all the assemblies — we know when, on 25 June 1991 — it was adopted. Whether to this day we have realized the desires and goals that we have already set ourselves, which we had in mind, is, of course, a question. We didn't! In her opening remarks today, the Ombudsman underlined, as I have seen, the issue of the social state and the rule of law in particular. I do not understand social states merely as funds in the State budget for social transfers, for money, for social assistance and for other assistance to people in distress. That's not enough. The social state is certainly a sum of many factors. And education! Do we have a sense of well - being? In this part, I can say I'm an optimist. Let's look at the data. You know that any taxable person may devote half a percentage of the income to a certain organisation designated to the beneficiary, although these beneficiaries are now slightly less than 5,000. But O. K., however, people can freely decide who they want to give that half percent of their income to. The last few years, or since we introduced this instrument in 2004-2008 – and I think it is good, nobody has criticized or rejected it today – are always the first Slovenian Karitas, and in 2011 this was also the number of donations of 12 thousand 745. In second place Red Nose — Praiseworthy! In third place Unicef, in fourth place Sunček, at the fifth Europa Donna and so on. We can look at these statistics and they are good, we need to be encouraged, even in this house we need to encourage people to choose to support those instruments that we have at our disposal, those that need help. The social state is also the country that is implementing such a policy that creates new jobs. I claim that man is the happiest. [[End of discussion warning sign]] it can develop its skills, intellectual and other, in the workplace. [[...]] Likely, they are happy to receive social assistance. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Tamara Vont will then have the floor, if you wish, both the representative of the Government and the proposer of Dr Zdenka Cebašek Travnik. Here you go, Mrs. Vonta.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much. In opening, I should say that, of course, today's debate in my expectations has not disappointed me in anything. We went back to the Sharh family, to the battalions of Pohorje and, of course, it's no wonder that we're always doing the same things over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, instead of looking at how we're doing these things now and making sure that something like this doesn't happen in the future. It is our job, therefore, to prevent violations in the present and to prevent the adoption of laws or the decisions we make here in order for this to happen in the future, that is our task. I'm in favour of correcting all the wrongs that have been done, and I've said that many times before, and I think there's actually some consensus here. But I am much more concerned about the injustices that are happening today and that we are causing today, and I am particularly concerned about them. In fact, I think of human rights as such a basic institute to say, from there it all begins, we build everything forward. If a marriage does not have a solid foundation, just as if it does not have a house, something happens to it sooner or later, and the same is true in this case. Once again, I stress that this concept of human rights – far from being ideal, is controversial, some authors even say that it is essentially a patch on the wounds of capitalism. That's what some sociologists are talking about. But we do have one, and as such it offers us some protection, you just have to see it. Of course, we will never have ideal persons or ideal societies, this is nonsense, we must not be such idealists, even though it may sometimes not hurt, but the facts are what they are. And that's not really what this is about. In fact, according to my opinion, Slovenian society has not been paying enough attention for a long time, as individuals, to those basic things. In short, the human rights that have been acquired have not been acquired forever, and they must always be regained – as I say, their acquisition must be supervised, watched over and cared for. Sometimes we have given in to these things, and those basics have been a little bit confusing, and our perception of human rights is sometimes a little bit to say – easy to begin with. That's not right. We have to be aware. Let me say this because I am the President of the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. Some refer to this commission as a commission, there is talk, in any case they do not have any legislative powers, but what we need, since we have a Ombudsman and so on. So I am at the beginning of this term, because I am very proud to be on this committee, and I am very proud to be president of this commission, and I am very much trying to get everyone together to pull something out of it, but this was the perception: you know, we know that human rights must be and we must respect them, but everything else is – you know, depending on the stars and everything else. For example, people often say, "Wow, there are still few good people in the world!" Or, "There is still solidarity in Slovenia!" And so on. It is huge, there are many good people, and we are very solidarity, but we cannot agree that with our solidarity and kindness we will save what the state should essentially take care of. We are not going to solve this with any volunteerism, as is the case, for example, that is happening to a good extent in the United States of America. I would like to touch something else, which is one of the points that has hurt me very much, is child health insurance. As my colleague has already said, as we discussed on the committee, there was also a representative of the Ministry of Health: all children in Slovenia are protected, it was said; every child comes to a doctor and is taken care of. In practice, it turned out slightly differently, but we did not have to adopt a simple non-binding decision on the basis of political divisiveness on the Commission, but the Ministry may inform all public health insurance providers that all children in Slovenia have health insurance, that they are all insured because some obviously did not understand it. No! No! We couldn't accept that conclusion! Look, these are things I just don't understand. This is called unreasonableness and unreasonableness. A simple leaf that would solve a lot of problems for a lot of people! We are not in the first place in politics, we should be people, but if we are not people, and then we cannot be good politicians, that is my opinion. This will somehow end and wish: despite having fewer resources in the future, this same office will continue to do so well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ms Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u82	First of all, I would like to thank the leadership of the National Assembly for allowing me to accompany the meeting in another room, because for health reasons it is very difficult for me to sit and stand, and so also for those Members who think that I did not listen to them, I inform them that I am, because I am in a place where this was possible. My entire introductory address has been on the Ombudsman's website since nine today, and those who may have missed my performance can read the entire text there. I also thank the Members and Members of the National Assembly, who have read the 2011 annual report in detail and have participated actively and specifically in the debate. It seems particularly commendable to me that you have already drawn substance from our recommendations, content for marriage proposals, for example on child health insurance, or for subsidies for the nutrition of schoolchildren, this is the way I imagine cooperation between the Ombudsman and the National Assembly. It may be a little messy now, but what I'm about to say will continue to respond to individual implementations. First of all, regarding the length and content of the Ombudsman's annual report. There was a comment that the addresses were the same every year. Indeed, the addresses in the indicator are always the same or very similar, because we are always addressing the same areas of human rights and this is also to help those who follow the annual reports back easier to find when a particular matter has been dealt with. Of course, the content and I hope that this will remain, as well as the form, is the right length, under the exclusive competence of the current guardian. We also wonder if it makes sense that the reports are so long, and we say yes. Indeed, these reports are and will remain a document for some time, and it is therefore worth saving even if we do not read them all this year, we will consider them later. Mr Jerovšek did not understand me well about the threats, and now I would like to explain it to him. During my term of office, I received some written threats, and in August 2012 I received some death threats. These threats described a very precise description of how this death of mine will take place. We have informed the criminals, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice, including the Secretary of State, has been informed. Of course, the police have found out correctly, and I now quote: "... that since May 2012, the threat against only one person has not been pursued by an official duty." So if a threat is made to the guardian because he is doing his job, the state cannot protect her! I should find the perpetrator myself – by the way, this one has signed and this same person with this signature also appears in some public media So, this person I should find alone, prove to her that she wrote, hire a lawyer and go to the lawsuit against her. [[...]] Of course, I warned the competent ministries — I have not yet received an answer! And of course, the prosecution doesn't have to deal with it because the law says it's not that. As for events in Maribor, which also somehow Mr Jerovšek told me that we did not respond to the Council to him and also to all others who criticize the Ombudsman's work so that they can click on our website once a week. [[...]] It is very transparent, even in a narrower selection of awards, and there is very quickly what an individual is interested in. It is so clear that we have responded to unacceptable pressures by visiting the Moroccan municipal councilors, both to threats posed by or unheard of entries related to the family of the Prime Minister. All you have to do is read us, too, before you criticize us for a certain thing! Next. You also found out and wondered where the ministers were. All honour to the Secretary of State, who also somehow saves the honour of the government. Firstly, since I am the Ombudsman, there has been no minister present when the Ombudsman's report is being considered. Not one! Also, the President of the Government, of course, could not accept me personally to deliver the annual report to him, and we sent it to him at his request, at least so informed, by mail. Well, of course, if we look at what it's like here today – now I see that the number of Members is rising, some have also apologized – I wonder where those Members are – as some of you have called, which are dealing with the areas that we are talking about – to perhaps exchange views today, to hear your responses. I received another response to our media statements, which, if I understand correctly, were actually the only criticism of my work. So that I didn't respond in time, to a sufficient extent, every time, I don't know how I responded to the media statements, the records. Members of Parliament, Members, the primary task of the Ombudsman is to address initiatives. We have received more than three thousand three hundred in 2012, most of which has been recorded in this way, most definitely in my mandate. We responded, of course, to media messages, and explained when we respond, why we respond, quite often at the initiative of the media. Sometimes we respond on our own. Then we had a little talk about the judiciary. The Ombudsman’s criticism was clear, perhaps not clear enough on our part: it is clear throughout my term! And we have also made it very clear that when backlogs were falling, that we became concerned about the content of court decisions, they were of little quality and caused court proceedings. I have not heard much about this today, but this is evident from the meetings of Members with citizens. The participation of Members with the Ombudsman is quite modest in this mandate. In the previous mandate, this cooperation was slightly more: either in some joint activities or in meetings, letters, whatever. My mandate is now being concluded, but I urge you - not yet, at least I hope it will not be so soon - I urge you to write to the Ombudsman, call for ideas, ask a question, we will help you draw what you are interested in from our materials. Therefore, it would be nice if we worked together, even when issues are being drawn up, coalition or opposition, those you have at the beginning of each meeting. And there's something else I'd like to recommend. We publish weekly fresh cases from the Ombudsman’s work – interesting reading, many media have already found out, perhaps you will too. I'm not going to lose words about the hate speech today, and we've written a lot about it and talked about it. Perhaps another time, my deputies, mentioned several times today, will be very well-educated in this area and will surely explain things to you if you want. As far as caring for older people is concerned, I would like to stress the importance of the State preventive mechanism. We're the ones who walk through institutions where people are locked up by law. Not only in prisons, but also in psychiatric hospitals, even in nursing homes, and there we find out what situations these people, who cannot take care of themselves, actually live in. You can also read about this on our website. The next thing I want to open up or support is trust in the rule of law. We've established that this one is weak. I regret to note that with each year of my term, she is weaker. The cases under consideration, the ones I mentioned earlier, also point to this. Ladies and Members of Parliament, the State must ensure that its laws are implemented, but not to report to the Ombudsman that it has not sufficiently pointed out that it should. Speaking of recommendations, I would like to say this: the recommendations come from our findings, so we didn't make them up, nobody whispered them to us, but if you're reading the report, you can see them very well. They're coming out of our hearings. If we accepted them in the National Assembly, that would mean that you agree with them, with our findings and recommendations. Of course, there is something else that needs to be said clearly. The National Assembly has the right to accept them, one way or another. And we've never interfered with that. If you wanted to have a different one, you accepted a different one. But these recommendations should be taken into account once they have been adopted. So, actively monitor what happens to these recommendations. When you changed them and changed them on the committee, I apologize for this expression, you wrote in the field of justice, and now I quote: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends the early adoption of the juvenile penal law, which KZ-1 already predicts." Wow, I wonder what happened - the National Assembly is up to something. Of course, this happened because you replaced the words, as in the original recommendation "the Ombudsman recommends" with "the National Assembly". And then we come up with this nonsense. I believe it's a lapsus, but such a lapsus happens in other documents accepted by the National Assembly because it's too fast because it doesn't pay attention enough. This is one of our comments about the work of the National Assembly. Of course, it is a matter of taking into account the resolution on normative activities, as far as we are concerned, that we have a non-governmental organization there that is spinning a counter. I haven't looked up there in a while, but when I looked up, they were pretty specific, so maybe you should look at that. As far as the kids are concerned. In your debates, many of you have rightly found that I have kept my word and have devoted myself to children's rights throughout the term of office. I could say that we have achieved a great deal, but I am sorry that we have not been able to convince you or the executive authority to adopt a law on child support. I am very sorry and I hope that you will have a chance to think about this when you receive our special report on this subject in these days. Read it! Read the stories, read the recommendations, and then think about it and decide. I have also listened carefully to Mr Kavtičnik about the same conditions for education. Two years ago, we dealt very deeply with this issue. We have warned of unacceptable differences. We obtained opinions from the Ministry, the Education Institute, and finally received the Minister's reply in the sense that we were going into things that were none of our business. It's none of our business! That's what I told the Minister at the time. Of course, what you've been alerting me to today is what I'm alerting you to. On the one hand, children from socially disadvantaged or, let's say, in the right word, poor families in their potential are neglected because parents cannot pay for the activities that we – and I go into my youth – can afford for free: for the campers there was never any need to pay for the choir, nor for the handiwork that we did. Let's make history enough. I also wondered at the time, two years ago, whether the ministry would even determine why there were great differences in the success of primary schools; I already told you the Ministry's response. Taking care of older people is one of the other pillars of my work. We have also done a great deal in this area, in particular, we can show. I am sorry that long-term care and care insurance cannot possibly come through the National Assembly. This surprises me, especially since I am getting closer to this generation by myself, which will need such help. But that would be something to discuss. As I said before, the guardian visits homes and also sees how they care about the dignity of people in these homes; very specific things, such as tying these people to bed, such as whether they belong to two or three diapers a day, with such things, real, lifelike activities on a weekly basis. If we are close to health care, I would like to say more about hospital infections, and we have heard that today that we should go after them. We did, Mr Member, when we received the initiative. In 2011, there were no such initiatives, I must say, but before that, we had, especially in connection with MRSA, because people who had MRSA, this particular hospital infection, were not admitted to their home and people had problems, and we were dealing with these things. I'd like to mention something else. You have noted well that the proportion of health initiatives there is between 4% and 5%. I would like to say that this is a relatively small number of initiatives - say, the children's rights are 10% - that this relatively small number is probably linked to the small functioning of the patient's rights agents, and this patient's rights representative has helped, if I say so, to make a law-abiding guardian, because we have warned that people need such agents to help people deal with all health workers. These representatives must report on their work not only to the Ministry, which they normally do not call, but also to the Ombudsman, we call them once a year and discuss what changes they want and how they would become even more effective. We have heard that some Members are dissatisfied with the Ombudsman and are wondering about the meaning of this institution. Sounds like the guard didn't respond. That's just not true. We respond to every, every single message we receive. We don't respond on the first day, we almost respond on the 15th day. But it's not up to the guardian to deal with it for months and months, but it's up to the ministries and the municipalities that don't answer our questions. As Mr Židan said, the fact that the ministry in the area of the environment is doing exactly the same – as I said, the police are always a model, regardless of who the director is, who is the minister, the Ministry of the Environment or what part of it is a disaster. It's a disaster too! Neither does the Ombudsman get any answers, nor does the E.R., which we address to the Minister, unfortunately leave no response. I know Minister Bogovich, I believe in his expertise, I know he can do well, but obviously there is something on this part of the ministry that needs to be changed very much. If you discuss this and make any constructive proposals, you will do a lot, because, last but not least, it depends on how much penalties Slovenia will pay for failing to comply with environmental directives. We're messing with these things and we're thinking, what, let them write? We will pay from this budget, where we are now running out, we will pay large sums for our carelessness, if I say so. But during my term of office, the Guardian regularly pointed out all these problems. The notice that the guardian is not responding is unfounded. We are addressing all initiatives and 25% of them are justified. This is one of the highest shares in Western ombudsmen. They're somewhere below 20%. We've gone across. But when it comes to the Ombudsman’s inefficiencies, it must be made clear that the Ombudsman is proposing changes; whether this change will be made is not up to the Ombudsman. And I will say again that our police have accepted the recommendations – God knows why. Let's talk about it! As far as health insurance is concerned in children, it is one of the great themes that we have drawn for several years, and the Members have listened to us and the law has been amended. After this change of law according to our behaviour in Slovenia there are no children who would not have health insurance. We have requested help from the Association of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia to collect specific information through its units on children who were not offered assistance due to irregular status. Sadly, or fortunately, we have not received such an answer, even though we regularly cooperate with them. That is why I think there is still some kind of initiative that Mrs Vonta has mentioned that the Ministry should simply inform all health care institutions that all children have the right to health insurance. Such a notice cost nothing. At the same time, it would be immediately apparent whether such children who are not able to use health services actually exist in Slovenia. They're an exception, please understand, strangers, but this is a completely different story. War graves; we hear about it every year. I also opened my own-initiative case here and in 2011 and spoke to the actors involved in the detection of post-war graves and sent inquiries, which can be verified, of course, by date, to the Ministry, how these proceedings are taking place. I have also been assured, during my discussion with Minister Visiak, that at least part of the funds for this purpose will be provided. Indeed, we have not yet written about this in our annual report for a simple reason because we have not yet had all the answers. This could happen in the 2012 report if, of course, the new guardian or guardian whom you will elect in the near future – my mandate expires on 21 February – of course, he agreed that this would come in the annual report. He may not agree, and then he will not do so in the annual report. Therefore, I tell you that it is important that the violations — and what has happened to them — are recorded in the annual report to show when someone has already warned about something. And once again to the environment. As far as the environment is concerned, the state must ensure that its laws are implemented. As the guardian and my colleagues, we have set up a special team for the field of environmental protection, we have looked at virtually all the locations that have been claimed to be environmental violations and personally made sure that the claims of the initiators are real or fabricated; whether they really smell or not. Our ministry claims that we do not need a legal document to support it, whether it stinks or not. Yeah, it stinks! In many places we've been, it stinks! For the end, I have three minutes left, I want to return to my origin, to human dignity. Human dignity is pretty imaginary for most of us. When I talk to people at lectures or seminars and ask them to define this concept of what it is, I don't usually get answers. They understand more clearly and understandably, but what human dignity violations do they understand here. Human dignity, in its original form, is the foundation of human rights as understood by modern society. If we go to history, human rights were not invented, not in this decade, not in this century, not in this millennium, not in the previous and not in the previous. Two thousand 500 years ago, the first document was produced to regulate the relationship between individuals and the country, and Kir the Great wrote something that we now understand as human rights, on the clay cylinder they keep in the British Museum. This is the history of human rights. Finally, it is important, honourable Members, that the Ombudsman's annual report be considered as close as possible to the date on which the Ombudsman gives it to the President of the National Assembly, in order to avoid those traps that we have witnessed today, to talk about today's situation, and to report on those in 2011. It is true that in the present tense this is quite connected and therefore we cannot be surprised, we must not be surprised that we are repeating ourselves; and the next guardians will probably be repeating themselves, unless they completely change the functioning of the institution. When, on what occasion the guardian should be advertised, he must remain in the exclusive domain of the guardian who takes full responsibility for his statements, and I hope that the next guardian or guardian will take this into account. Thank you very much. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Thank you very much Dr. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik, the Ombudsman for Human Rights for closing words. We have thus concluded the general debate in the report. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled to the proposal for a recommendation to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 29 1. 2013 which is published online on the e-club. On the proposal, however, I make a recommendation to discuss the amendment of the SD and Positive Slovenia's parliamentary groups, namely the Social Democrats and Positive Slovenia. Who wants to discuss, of course, within the time available for each parliamentary group? I don't see a desire for anyone else to want to debate, so I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. Before I break this point, Dr. Zdenki Chebašek Travnik once again sincerely thank you for all your efforts, work and all your cooperation. Dear Dr. Zdenka Chebašek Travnik, thank you. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2010 – the final proposal. The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal for a final account. I see that this proposal will be presented to us by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Aleš Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! As it is said, you have before you the Proposal for a Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. In the previous year, the current government took note of the final proposal for the final budget account for 2010 and of the audit report on the draft final budget account for 2010. Both documents were forwarded together with explanations of the reasons for not taking into account individual audit proposals to the National Assembly for admission. With regard to the general part of the 2010 final budget account, we can highlight the following. The budget deficit in 2010 amounted to €1.7 billion, or about €37 million less than the balance sheet. This is 4.8% of GDP. With the rebalancing, the deficit was planned at 5.02% of GDP. The 2010 budget rebalancing accounted for lower revenues than originally planned. These were reduced by €540 million in terms of the budget adopted and expenditure was or were reduced by €600 million. This has brought the deficit nominally down by around €60 million. The rebalancing also laid the basis for Slovenia's participation in assistance activities to the Hellenic Republic. The implementation of the budget in the first five months of 2010 has shown that revenue will be lower than planned, in particular from the corporate income tax. On the expenditure side, the balance of the budget, taking into account legal rights, mainly intervened in budgetary programmes which were not directly established by law, so it did not interfere with salaries and social transfers. As a result, transport and transport infrastructure had been cut to 168 million euros, followed by a health sector where funds had fallen by 49 million euros, and by defence or emergency measures by 44 million euros. The expenditure was thus realised in the range of 94% and almost EUR 594 million less than planned at the time of the rebalancing. If expenditure were realised at the level of the planned rebalancing, that is EUR 9.8 billion, at the end of the year's lower income, that is EUR 7.5 billion, the government budget deficit would be EUR 2.3 billion, or 6.5% of GDP. The expenditure of the accounts of financial claims and investments was realised at a level of poor €195 million, the main ones being loans to Greece and to public funds and businesses. Thus, Greece was allocated almost € 103 million, €53.2 million to private companies and €53.2 million to public funds in the form of an increase in the earmarked assets and loans added or given totalling almost €25 million. At the same time, only EUR 13.1 million was achieved. In line with the 2010 funding programme adopted, the country has committed a total of €2.5 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. In order to present the study to the Commission, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u86	Good-bye! At its 19th regular meeting, the Commission considered the draft final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. In its introduction, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance said that the Government had also sent the Court of Auditors’ audit report to the National Assembly on the final proposal for the final budget account for 2010 and explained the reasons for not taking account of individual audit proposals. The President of the Court of Auditors said that, following the revision of the proposal for a final account in the general part of the accounts, they had given an opinion with reservation on the general part of the accounts. Such an opinion has also been given to the correctness of its implementation. With regard to the general part of the final account, he pointed out some cases of books which led to their view that revenue and expenditure were not properly shown. Therefore, the dividends paid to Telekom and the revenues associated with the management of insurance transactions from international economic transactions are not shown during the non-tax revenue. The expenditure shall not include payments to beneficiaries for investments in the public telecommunications network, interest on the assets of the Slovenian Compensation Company, the costs charged by the Court for the implementation of the tasks under the Law on the return of investments in the telecommunications network, expenditure related to the management of insurance transactions from international economic transactions and the means to establish a guarantee fund at the Public Enterprise Fund. However, expenditure on the construction of water, state and local infrastructure on the lower Sava is shown to be too high. Also in the financial claims and investments account and in the financing account, certain items are accounted for at the wrong amount or some expenditure or revenue has not been shown. With regard to the aggregate balance sheet of the state budget, he pointed out in particular that direct budgetary users show a large amount of funds of purchase value of 1 euro, of which 847 plots and 409 buildings, which constitutes a violation of the Accounting and Accounting Standards Act. He also drew attention to the country's long-term deposits in business banks from the single treasury account, thus violating the basic principle of liquidity as set out in the Public Finance Act. There is a risk that the deposits allocated constitute an inadequate form of provision of funds to banks to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis. In its introduction, he also pointed out that, in accordance with the amendment to the Public Finance Act, they had submitted to the Government a proposal for corrections to the final account, which the Government had not taken into account. The debate first raised the question of whether there were repeated errors and why they could not be remedied. Representatives of the Court of Auditors said that some errors were indeed repeated: insurance of guarantees, return of investments in the telecommunications network, payments from the Court of Justice, investment in infrastructure on the lower Sava, and many mistakes in areas such as public procurement and labour legislation. There is also a recurrence of the error in the connection of deposits in business banks that are not properly reported. The representative of the Ministry of Finance said that some of the mistakes that had been repeated had already been corrected or would be corrected in a short time. Reimbursements to investors in the telecommunications network were arranged in 2011, infrastructure on the lower Sava and problems with Infra began to be regulated in 2011 by amending legislation. They also found a solution with regard to the valuation of assets estimated at €1 in 2012. Following the consideration of the Proposal for a Final Account for the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 under Rule 168 of the Rules of Procedure, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission adopted the following decision: "The Public Finance Supervisory Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, following the consideration of the Proposal for a Final Account for the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 it adopts the following decision: The National Assembly shall adopt the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010."
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u88	Your Honor! Social Democrats will support both accounts for 2010 and 2011 and this performance will also apply to both accounts. As regards both accounts, it is important to mention the situation left by the previous government. In 2010 and 2011, economic growth was positive, with 1.2% of gross social product in 2010, and 0.6% of the social product in 2011. And why was she positive? Also due to the budgetary measures of the previous government, which provided social security, increased investment in development and moderate savings. The recovery of the economy in the 2009-2011 mandate could be faster, but economic growth has further fallen due to the consequences of the wrong economic policy of the government of Janez Janša, who overheated the economy. As early as 2005, economic growth was based on increased indebtedness. The most pronounced increase in gross external debt in 2007 was for the good 10 billion euros, which means that 6.8% of economic growth was based on very unhealthy foundations. The total external gross debt increased from €15.343 billion within the mandate of the previous government — a figure of 31. 12. 2004 – to €39 billion 238 million – data is also from 31. 12. 2008 It is said that during the entire mandate of the Janša government, Slovenia was in charge abroad of almost the same amount as Slovenia owed from independence until the end of 2004. Slovenia became a net debtor in the mandate of Janez Janša. Regarding the developmental orientation of the previous government, however, data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia on the development and research activities in Slovenia in 2011 show. According to this data, our national economy invested €894 million or 2.74% of gross social product in research and development in 2011. This is a very important indicator of the development intensity of the national economy and the importance of knowledge in its competitiveness on the world market and their acquired comparative advantages. As a result, of course, knowledge affects the employment, welfare and prospects of this national economy. Slovenia ranked almost 2.5% of its R & D share in gross social product in 2011 immediately for the developing intensive countries, which earmark around 3% of gross social product or even more for these investments. The Scandinavian countries, with the exception of Norway, then Japan and South Korea have a share of their investment in research and development of even over 3 % of their gross social product and the United States, Germany and Austria have around 3 % of their gross social product. In 2011, under this criterion, Slovenia has no doubt that we do not yet have all the data today, much earlier than the average of the European Union, including France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, not to mention others. In 2011, Slovenia contributed a larger share of funding, 61%, to investment in R & D. At the same time, most of these investments were made in the business sector, i.e. 74%. These percentages are not significantly different from other economically developed countries. The increased development intensity in Slovenia in 2011 did not come on its own, it was enabled and encouraged by a number of measures of our economic policy. From tax incentives for investment in research and development, development credits from the Slovenian Export Company and the European Investment Bank to state grants mainly linked to the drawing-up of various European Union funds. From 2008 to 2011, investment in research and development in Slovenia increased by EUR 277 million or 45%. In this respect, in 2011 business sector investments were 37% and countries were 108% higher than in 2008. In 2011, we also increased the expenditure of the state sector on education by 6.7% of gross social product compared to 2008, when these funds amounted to only 6.1% of the gross social product. In social democracy, we were aware that investing in human resources is essential for a way out of the crisis and for a breakthrough, but what helps if this government is acting in the opposite way today! For economic activities, we earmarked 5.8% of gross social product in 2011 and 4.8% in 2008. Economic activities include general economic affairs, matters; employment-related matters, agriculture, the production and distribution of fuels and energy, transport and other economic activities. In 2011, we earmarked €2 billion 92 million or €216 million more for economic activities than in the previous year. The increase in expenditure relates to extraordinary transactions related to the recapitalisation of public undertakings and the takeover of claims, also shown as ongoing capital transfers. In social democracy, we are aware of the need to save businesses and jobs in order not to allow for the collapse, such as, say, Primorja, as this government has allowed. In 2011, 6,851 million euro was earmarked for social protection. This is 230 million more than in the previous year. This area covers expenditure increased by various risks and needs, such as disease, disability, age, children, unemployment and other social exclusions, the main part of which is pensions and social benefits. Compared to the previous year, expenditure on age increased most from €3 billion 470 million to €3 billion 576 million and unemployment from €308 million to €371 million. In social democracy, we have assessed the need to provide resources for human survival, which is why we have not agreed to reduce human social security. What about this government – the ZUJF and other savings freaks! In 2010 and 2011, we earmarked 6.9% of gross social product for health care and only 6.1% in 2011. This purpose covers expenditure on general specialist and hospital health services, the provision of medicinal products and other medical products, supplies and equipment, and the application of health development and other activities. What is the difference with this government – that it has some austerity priorities that reduce accessibility to public health. The question is whether public health is still a priority. Social Democrats will support the final accounts of the 2010 and 2011 budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr. Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! 2010 is already quite behind us and it would be pointless to discuss the results of the 2010 budget widely, but we need to draw lessons from these budgets. I will give a few words and points on the 2010 and 2011 budgets. I would start by what was the deficit of the state budget. In 2008, there was no deficit, plus 68 million. However, the primary figure was even over €380 million. I must say what is the difference between the primary and the budgetary deficits achieved. One also takes into account the difference between the interest received and the interest paid, and this means that we paid EUR 320 million in 2008. Let's move on. In 2009, it will bring us €728 million in budget surplus instead of €728 million in budget surplus. Next year, 2010, a billion 730 million minus. Next year, 2011, a billion 529 million minus. So we've created a huge budget deficit. Of course, our interest costs have increased accordingly very quickly. In 2008, we paid 300 million euros in interest, then they increased to 320 in 2009, then they jumped to 500, 480, then to 520, and we already paid 620 in 11 months for interest this year. This is said, as a result of this debt and the increase in public debts and costs we have with this public debt, we have been deprived of 300 million euros from our budget in the long term, which is something to be taken away from somewhere, it is necessary to save them, and we will also have to pay back what we have borrowed, and the new debt will be increasingly costly. Therefore, we really need to seek wisdom and not owe ourselves too much in advance, for this calls for our own branch to which we sit. We'll never get out of this, and we'll always be in recession, we'll always be saving, we won't be able to afford any more spending. Of course, I am pleased that last year we were able to stop this trend. The deficit in 11 months is only one billion 143, and the primary deficit is only 500 million, which was already a billion 400, billion 200, and so on. That is how this trend – and still, as I have said many times, this spending on credit is still too much, and we should squeeze even more, so that we can make a similar life as we do, even for our families who are behind us. Therefore, it is completely pointless to discuss this, the fact is that no one and nowhere can spend more than it is created. Here I would draw attention to a discussion that I had heard before; where and how the country should launch investments, increase industrial production and so on. It is right that this should be done, but this will not be done with state money and state credits, this will be done in such a way that we will ensure the right conditions for the development of the economy and the business and the economy, our infrastructure companies, railways, electricity, all that is where the investor will have to come, but always for a reason, it is said that he will invest in such investments that will also bring income and also repayment of credits and so on. In short, we're on the right track. We need to be patient and to achieve a way of balancing our balance sheets, so it would be right to continue this process. Of course, we don't have anything to change back, we have to support what happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Roman Zveglic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good day to you all. Allow me to present, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, a position on both points at the same time; that is to say, on the proposals of both final accounts, both for 2010 and for 2011. In our view, both final accounts are similar and are the best reflection of the economic policy of the previous Left Coalition and its government. So, those economic policies that today can express a series of critical, often critical words about the economic policy of this government. This current critical attitude of the opposition to saving the current government in public spending and to consolidating public finances is based on poor practices in the past, best demonstrated by the Republic of Slovenia's 2010 and 2011 final accounts, so forgive me for a slightly sharper performance. Since this is a very interesting fact, especially at a time when we can look at the matter from a critical distance, let us look at some numbers. The budget deficit in 2010 was EUR 1.7 billion. We spent 23% more than we did in the budget. In order to finance all of this, we committed EUR 2.5 billion in 2010, of which the net debt, i.e. a direct debt increase of around EUR 800 million. And what else was the characteristic of the 2010 budget? In 2010, there were virtually no interventions, neither in wages nor in any other legal right, i.e. no changes in structural regulation, but it was typical of this budget, that it greatly reduced investment, especially in transport infrastructure, and that we had a catastrophicly poor implementation of European funds, which was still a severe cancer early in that period. Back then, red lights were on in all traffic lights, not just government lights, but in all economic, analytical houses, not only in Slovenia, but also in the world. Let's take a look at the 2011 budget. In the Slovenian People's Party at that time, we have consistently raised warnings that the budget and, above all, spending on certain items that have nothing to do with the economy can and must not be higher than in 2008. It is unprecedented that, in areas that have no connection with the economic sector, we spend more than in the year when the economy was doing its best. None of that! In the current government and coalition, we ran into a deaf ear. Even in 2011, despite obvious difficulties, the government did not intervene in legal rights, nor was any structural reform adopted, even though the number of unemployed was increasing, although the economy was increasingly on its knees and the state was increasingly in debt, which is known mainly in the fall of private consumption and investment. Even in 2011, we lost 20 per cent more than we collected taxes and other revenues, of course we again owed ourselves abroad, this time net just for 2.9 billion euros. In just three years of crisis, the public debt of the country has doubled, and the country is already heavily indebted to over €15 billion. By the way, dear colleagues, on average we have managed to re-indebt the four-member Slovenian family in the fights of two years, 2010 and 2011. Shall I now congratulate all those then involved, for I was not present at that time, and thank God not even the Slovenian People's Party. Of course, there was no talk at the time of saving, nor of regulating public finances into some normal obstacles, although at the time all of us who can count on plus and, of course, also on minus, knew that both the economy and the state were drowning, that reform would soon be inevitable, and laws similar to the infamous ZUJF are inevitable. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Do we even know what these two closing accounts of our country are telling us? In particular, what happened to the then government policy and, in particular, to state finances in 2010 and 2011? Will someone be responsible for this, and have we at least learned something from it? Perhaps it was not just ignorance, but a big bluff, because the structural problems of our state policy and economy have been plaguing, and then the leading politicians have been acting like this world, and so Slovenia, in the years since 2009, would not have experienced any financial and economic crisis at all, just so that they did not have to face difficult reforms, with all-knowing unions and, in particular, that they would not have to leave the authorities too quickly. And that's exactly what was going on! The ruling elite has used Slovenia's good name abroad, relatively low indebtedness and consequently the possibility of a favourable debt, while at the same time most of this money has not been earmarked for investments, has not been earmarked for direct economic measures, has not been allocated to a more favourable tax policy or a burden on the economy, so as to really implement a proactive economic policy, such as some opposition members so loudly demand today. No! No! We borrowed money to continue living in the royal realm, although our castle was getting higher in the clouds and the state finances in the mud. There was no adjustment, no rationalisation, no restructuring of government spending, no adjustment to crisis situations, only spending, spending and spending. Your Honor! The bill for this economic policy is already on display today and will be presented to us for at least the next 10 years, because, according to simple household logic, the borrowed money will, of course, have to be returned; and with high interest! Today, for almost a year now, we have been listening at every step to how this government is saving bloodyly. It is true, but we must be aware that we are still spending more than we are running into the budget, and in all this urgent contraction, we are trying to make the country more competitive and financially stable. I therefore hope today that financial policy has been irresponsible in these two years, to say the least. These two budgets, the final accounts of which we accept today, have therefore bought power and social peace. Today and tomorrow we will all pay for these sins, for this negativity. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will vote for both closing accounts, so to speak, we do not have other options, because the facts and figures do not lie, but the data we have on the table, of course, are nothing to blame, only chronic evidence that someone from this country and its people has played it very irresponsiblely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President, and a very nice greeting to all present. Also in the DeSUS Group we will submit a proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for both years, 2010 and 2011. The Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation in the revision of the draft State Budget Final Account for the two years. The proposal for the 2010 accounts does not have the revenue shown for the dividends of Telekom Slovenije and for the management of insurance transactions from international economic transactions. During the expenditure, there are no payments made by beneficiaries to invest in the public telecommunications network. Budget revenue, according to the Court of Auditors, is too low for €12.6 million and expenditure for €76 million. The Court of Auditors, in connection with the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, has already pointed out in the audit reports on the final accounts of the budgets for 2007, 2008 and 2009 that business events have been misrecorded, but this has not changed in 2010. Such registration would be contrary to the Accounting Act. The Court of Auditors also drew attention to the granting of long-term deposits to commercial banks from the State’s single treasury account, thereby violating the basic principle of liquidity as set out in the Public Finances Act. The Court of Auditors also considers that, as a result, there is a risk that the deposits allocated constitute an inadequate form of provision of funds to banks to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis on the financial system. With this conclusion that in such a case it is inappropriate to provide funds to banks, we fully agree in the DeSUS Group of Members. Such conduct can even be described as a covert recapitalisation of bad banks. It's very high funds. The country allocated 1.3 billion long-term deposits to banks in 2009 and 521 million in 2010. Despite such silent assistance, the Slovenian banks still have six billion bad claims. The Court of Auditors also delivered an opinion with reservation on the correctness of the implementation of the 2010 budget, as it found inconsistencies with the rules, inter alia in employment, salaries and other personal benefits, in taking on the obligations of the budget and in the allocation of transfers and irregularities in the procurement of public contracts. A similar opinion with reservation was also given by the Court of Auditors to the final accounts of the State budget for 2011 and the correctness of the implementation of the budget for the same year. The first was given an opinion with reservations because there had been repeated errors in the presentation of revenue and expenditure and the second because there had been a number of discrepancies with the rules. The 2011 State Budget Final Account also shows that revenue which, according to the Court of Auditors, does not belong to the budget: expenditure for the construction of water, state and local infrastructures on the lower Sava is shown in a low amount; expenditure for damages under the War and Post-war Violence Compensation Act is not shown in expenditure; and the Law on the issue of the obligation to pay damages for seized property due to the abolition of the penalty of confiscation of property; and not expenditure relating to the difference between nominal and selling value in the exchange of bonds. This time, too, the Court of Auditors pointed out that in 2011, the Ministry of Finance, through a single treasury account of the State, granted deposits amounting to EUR 1 billion 195 million to banks, ending contracts prematurely and then re-allocated them on the basis of new contracts. The single account system thus has long-term deposits loaded in business banks. For these, the budget had to maintain a high level of deposit in the system, thus allowing it sufficient resources to finance long-term deposits. The budget maintained the deposit funds through debt, while the debt interest rate was significantly higher than the interest rate on the country’s single treasury account system. In the DeSUS Group, we ask ourselves, with these repeated warnings from the Court of Auditors and the opinions given, with reservations, how can it be that there are errors in the management of budgetary money from year to year. The Court of Auditors also makes recommendations to the government and the Ministry of Finance to improve business, but it still finds new and new shortcomings and errors every year. This place raises the question of where the cause lies. Is it possible that the Court of Auditors is biased? According to the DeSUS Group's assessment, this is unlikely, since the court will find fault in the business of virtually all governments. As a second option, therefore, there is doubt as to the competence of the people responsible for the implementation of the budget or for the clarity and accuracy of the legislation and standards that are supposed to form the basis for the implementation of budgets. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we call on all those responsible to stick to the current and past recommendations for improving the functioning and implementation of the budget provided by the Court of Auditors, as this is the only way to avoid the untransparent use of state money, hidden recapitalisations, poorly run banks and state-owned enterprises, the transfer of budget obligations over the coming years and, last but not least, to the next generation and so on. In the DeSUS Group, we will support both proposals for the State Budget Final Account. At the same time, we expect those responsible to join in amending legislation and accounting standards, which will lay clear and transparent foundations for the implementation of the budget. Finally, the imposition of criminal and material liability on ministers and directors of directors and other management civil servants for the poor operation and management of their financial resources and professional services would not be a bad solution and would probably prevent a number of suspicious or even poor decisions to spend taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. New Slovenia Embassy Group, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The consideration of the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011 is, in fact, a policy analysis for these two years in numbers. I will be rational myself and will present the position of the New Slovenia Group at the same time for 2010 and 2011. "I will not politicize, this is not my purpose, nor my style, because politicization in this analysis would benefit no one, and our people would have nothing to do with it. Our people wouldn't have any of it!" That is how our fellow Member, Mr Borut Pahor, discussed this room some bad year ago. The proposal for the 2010 and 2011 accounts shows a great deal not to say a worrying budget deficit. In 2010, this amounted to around €1.7 billion, and in 2011 it was about €1.5 billion. Despite fairly accurate forecasts by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development on economic developments in 2010 and 2011, the government's responses to macroeconomic indicators were not appropriate. The government, as it has informed us, of course subsequently, has misjudged certain systems, for example the banking system. Of course, that's not an excuse, but it's the truth. The rebalancies had mainly reduced the projected investment funds, which had an unincentived effect on economic movements. In particular, the reduction in investment funds had an impact on the construction sector and budget rebalancies did not foresee greater expenditure interventions, only through systemic austerity measures, as some other European countries had introduced during that time. For example, if we mention only Denmark, which started with austerity measures in 2008, but in 2008, we, thank God, had a budget surplus. At that time, Nova Slovenije was run by public finances or the Ministry of Finance. Then with other European countries: Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, Austria and so on. If I stop only in Austria; this set the goal of reducing public spending by almost €28 billion in five years, more precisely until 2016. In Slovenia, there were no systemic austerity measures in terms of social transfers, pensions and salaries and certain other legal rights in the 2010 and 2011 financial years. We would, however, be urgently needed to consolidate public finances. On the other hand, on the income side we see a decrease in actual inflows from planned. In both fiscal years, 2010 and 2011, domestic consumption decreased and, as a result, tax revenue inflows decreased. In both years, it was also seen that budgetary revenues from the European Union were lower than planned. In 2010, the realisation of the inflows under this heading was barely 70% of the planned assets, even in 2011 the share of these assets was significantly lower. The key challenge of fiscal policy is to reduce the gap between government revenue and expenditure, Slovenian policy did not understand and could not realise in 2010 and 2011. As a result, the country's indebtedness increased as the public deficit had to be covered by hiring ever-increasing and increasingly costly loans in international financial markets. The priority of the new government, which took up the mandate in February 2012, was the first priority of fiscal consolidation, first by adopting the 2011 budget rebalancing and the Public Finance Balance Act, and then by other reform measures, in particular through the reform of the pension system, with a view to ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances. The Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union or the so-called fiscal pact which entered into force with the new year commits us to the long-term sustainability of public finances. In accordance with the provisions of this fiscal pact, the signatory countries have committed themselves to balance the budgets of the signatory countries or to show surpluses. In Novi Slovenija, before the signing of the fiscal pact, we advocated a balance of public finances; in our programme, I quote: "In the next two years, it is necessary to manage the public debt in order not to exceed 45 per cent of the gross domestic product, which is one of the key tasks. All public financial users must first reduce their own consumption according to the principle of maximum benefit and minimum damage, if this fails, the government must determine measures and reductions itself within three months. We must by no means continue to be indebted to our grandchildren; public spending must be aligned within two years with public financial revenues." End of quote. Although we are aware that the austerity measures will not bring additional political points to our party, we are aware of the responsibility we have taken along with the other government parties and will support measures that lead to the balance of public finances. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u98	Your Honor! The revenue of the State budget is lower than originally foreseen in the plan. This fact can be attributed in particular to the optimistic planning of economic growth and the economic crisis, which has significantly reduced capital investment and tax revenues. Traditionally, however, lower revenues from the European Union budget are, which I will define slightly further below. Thus, the budget revenue for 2010 is lower overall by less than 7% of the planned. In the 2010 budget adopted, one billion 37 million Euros of revenue from the European Union budget were planned. These revenues include pre-accession aid funds, funds for the implementation of the common agricultural and fisheries policy, the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund of the European Union, funds for the implementation of the European Union's centralised and other programmes, and the remaining funds received from the European Union budget and other European Union institutions, and refunds received from the European Union budget – I have been so broad on purpose. 30.3% or 314 million Euros were less than they could have been realised. That's pretty good. With regard to the low realisation of the revenue from the European budget, we need to place particular emphasis on the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund, both of which have been realised in a much lower percentage than planned. In particular, we find it problematic that the reasons for such a poor realization are due to delays in procurement procedures and, in particular, to complaints in these proceedings. Then a large proportion of the revenue shortfalls represent the halted implementation of planned infrastructure projects such as motorways and railway infrastructure. We certainly believe that there is a need for a thorough reflection on the part of those responsible, and we have already heard this today, regarding the implementation of medium and large infrastructure projects. It is not necessary to point out here that such projects have a multiple positive impact on the revenue side of the state budget, but are also indisputably one that has a general multiplier effect. In short, the percentage of successful realisation of European Union revenue is, interestingly, comparable to the percentage of taxes collected and contributions collected at home, given also the uncollected taxes from the area of the grey economy as potential tax revenues. This is about 30% or 1.5 billion euros. Of course, the budget is not just technical; it is more of an expert question. It is also primarily an inevitable political responsibility. During the year on which the present closing account relates, the question of why the recession of Slovenia was so severely affected is already very serious. The budget is a picture of this, the data we've already heard today is not to blame. From today's perspective, however, more or less the profession agrees that the economy has been too indebted. During the first years of this millennium, although the Slovenian economy grew rapidly, it was in an accelerated debt, thereby weakening the defence mechanisms against possible crises and, of course, the immune system did not hold back when the crisis broke out completely. Contrary to the indebtedness of the economy and banks in 2003-2008, the Slovenian State did not incur any debt. Public finances crisis and, of course, public debt in the coming years. In general, there are at least two key reasons for the crisis. The first is traditional: imbalances or imbalances between government revenue and expenditure. Decaying revenues suddenly collide with unaltered expenditure. Second reason, here I quote Senjur, "is attributed to the state as the owner of the emergency." This is a new problem of public finances. In the public financial deficit, there are items that do not relate to public spending but reflect corporate and bank indebtedness. And at least two types of corporate indebtedness is due to correctness here but there is a need for separation; one is called obsessive acquisitions, which generally end in coercion or bankruptcy, and the other is when companies take loans for investment in technological development and thus for the development of society as a whole. These are companies on whose shoulders we live, even at this time and regardless of the sharpness of the discussion. However, we are witnessing the paradox of capitalless owners, so debts travel from companies to banks, from banks that are generally state-owned to the country, and this, of course, goes for other loans to capital markets. We may be dealing with a problem and a solution that is crucial, but overlooked. This is the question of today: Have the State Holding and the Banking Stabilisation Fund, the mechanisms that will be mentioned and the links that I have mentioned, broken up and unlocked the banking and budgetary doomsday volumes? If this is also part of the European objective, however, it should be noted that the Positive Slovenia Group does not expect anyone and someone outside us in a wider community to take better care of the economic and social interests of the country than Slovenia itself. The Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will adopt the proposal for a final account for the 2010 budget despite some inconsistencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Andrej Šircelj on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support both proposals for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia's budgets, both for 2010 and for 2011. I'd like to point out two things. The first is what appears in the Court of Auditors' report, which points out certain errors, both in bookkeeping and in error in the implementation of both budgets. Of course, it also points out, for the first time, that the opinion for both budgets was given with reservation and that the errors were not corrected. The hardest and worst fact is that the errors that have occurred in accounting and in the implementation of budgets have not been corrected and some are carried out from year to year, even from previous years, not only from these years. The second thing I would like to say is that, through these two budgets, the policy of the former government is reflected, the economic, economic, financial policy of the government of Borut Pahor. This policy has been disastrous for the Slovenian state in that context, I mean in economic, financial and potentially in social terms. The first point to be found in the 2010 budget is that there have been tremendous difficulties in forecasting revenue. In the first budget, which was adopted by 25. 11. 2009 was the planned revenue of 8 billion 600, then in the balance sheet of 6 July 8 billion 100 and finally in the final account of 7 billion 500. In other words, for about a billion 100, someone has made a mistake and it is very difficult to plan an appropriate economic policy from this point of view. Also for 2011, when we look at revenue, from the originally planned 8 billion 800 fell to 7 billion 800, which once again means about a billion in 2011. That's exactly what the expenses are going to be. The second fact is that the economic policy behind these figures means – what? — the continuation of the debt and, in this connection, the public financial deficit applicable to all four cash registers. And for about 2 billion or for a billion 800, which in other words means 6.4% of gross social product in 2011, 6% of the deficit in 2010 relative to gross social income. On the other hand, compared with 2009, the increase in public financial expenditure, for example, as a percentage of gross social product over 50 %, to 50,3 % in 2010 and 50,9 % in 2011. With gross social product falling by 8 % in 2009. I think that this was the second or third biggest fall in the European Union, which means that the government at the time did not run any anti-crisis policies, but continued to spend, waste and debt and, of course, a lot of demagogies and populism, how good everything is and how better it will be if we continue to spend on the basis that we have not created enough to reduce the conditions of management to reduce the competitiveness of the economy on all international scales. On the other hand, if we look at the unemployment rate, it increased in 2011 to 8.1%, measured by international classification, and in 2010 from 5.9% in 2009 to 7.3%, once again in 2010. In other words, this means that more spending, even more expenditure, did not contribute to halting unemployment, which in fact means that this policy was not even anti-crisis, but continued as if nothing had happened, but it was happening. Investments fell by 23.3% in 2009, here we are talking about a real growth rate of 8.3% in 2010, by 10.7% in 2011, which means one of the biggest declines in investment in the country's history. What does that mean? This means that there were no incentives during that period, the conditions of management were poor and because the conditions of management were poor, the export economy also became uncompetitive. However, public debt increased from 12 billion in 2009 to almost 17 billion in 2011. Five billion in two years! 5 billion spent money without any effect, irrespective of the fact that the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed a reduction of expenditure by around 500 million when considering the draft budgets for 2010 and 2011 and caused a barrel of laughter in the Chamber when it actually proposed it in the amendment form. In other words, this budget and this final account point to the fact that the economic direction at the time was misguided and did not actually give rise, did not give the economy an opportunity. We must no longer repeat this because, in fact, such an economic policy leads to bankruptcy, to economic or financial bankruptcy, which means reducing the country's independence, reducing economic independence, reducing financial independence and also reducing the political independence of the country. It's an over-indebted debt. Today it is difficult to resolve the debt by continuing to be indebted, today, when we talk about measures that reduce budget expenditure, of course, we are talking about measures that are necessary because we cannot spend what is not created in the country and we need to create more. After all, these two final accounts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia can also be a reminder for us and a reminder for future generations that such an economic, financial policy of the State is no longer being maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate, but I have many registered names. Given the situation in the hall, I think it's reported the first mag. Ivan Vogrin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u102	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the American Institute has explored the characteristics of successful and unsuccessful countries and nations. Since Slovenia is one of the failures – as Mr Šircelj said – we have actually bankrupted because we are significantly spending more than we create and it will be a while longer – I will tell you what is the characteristic of the failed economies, the nations. First, the absence of critical thinking or logical thinking or otherwise: so-called solid instinct. Another time. Politics, state policy focuses mainly on division, not on creation. This is what some debaters have defined very precisely before me, and this is a weakness, not a former government, about which we now accept budgets or final accounts, but a weakness all the way from independence, perhaps with some rare periods of exceptions. As a third reason – internal non-unity. Continuation of the charge and the laying of the charge now on one side, the other on the other. This is also seen in real life or in this Parliament at this point. And in fact, no matter who he is, we always say that the former have done bad, now they are doing bad. But the fact is, it's been a bad policy for 20 years, so we are where we are. As a fourth feature, the over-average tax burden on the population and the economy. The Institute notes that political leaders cannot find better or more innovative ways of charging the budget than raising taxes or introducing new taxes. We are also witnessing this, in fact, we are raising the prices of energy, municipal services, in the chimney services they have been warning us for years that we should introduce or abolish concessions and burden the economy and the population. Just as all of you have found out — there is nothing to do anyway. These are the facts that have been carried out, whether they confirm me or not, now it doesn't matter. Perhaps there is little discomfort if the final budget account is not adopted, otherwise it does not. The problem is that it has also been said that the policy of the former government has not been counter-crisis. Not because the previous government would not have wanted to, but because I do not think that it simply did not find itself in this crisis – I also said that when Mr Pahor, as Prime Minister, was here quickly at the beginning of the mandate – and he was extremely indebted, he was also increasing spending and in fact nothing was done or very little was done. However, the question is whether this government's policy is anti-crisis. In fact, it seems to me that only lowering wages, social transfers and everything else is a small counter-crisis measure. This is probably necessary, but especially on the income side – what I always say – we should start an economy that creates new value and a full budget. So there's actually not much to say about the closing account itself. This can only be a look back and a hint of how we should proceed. I agree with Mr. Squirrel, who said that the previous government didn't listen to anyone. Once again, however, this is the characteristic of all governments so far; this government is also not listening to some well-meaning comments and opposition proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you very much. In this way, I note that the list of reported debaters has been exhausted. The time available for discussion at this point has not yet run out, so I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, we will decide on the proposal for a final account today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal for a final account, to the Secretary of State, Mr Aleš Zivkovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! In October 2012, the Government considered the final draft of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011, the Audit Report on the draft final budget account for the same year, and clarified the reasons for the failure to comply with individual audit proposals. She also forwarded these to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for admission. The main features arising from the 2011 Final Account proposal are as follows: lower implementation of budget revenues than forecasted in the 2011 budget rebalancing resulted from, on the one hand, weaker key macroeconomic frameworks this year, than those forecasted, GDP declined for two quarters in a row, i.e. an obvious recession indicator. Domestic consumption has also been declining, which was one of the key reasons for lowering tax revenues compared to those planned in the budget rebalancing. All of this has affected the implementation of the key categories of budgetary revenue. The lower revenues were also affected by the lower realisation of the funds received from European funds. At the end of 2011, the revenues of the state budget were realised at EUR 7.8 billion, which is a good 130 million lower than planned in the balance sheet and did not affect the balance sheet's legal rights, namely social transfers, pensions and salaries. In particular, it intervened in the budgetary programmes, which represent the so-called flexible part of the expenditure, namely material costs, subsidies and investments, representing a relatively low proportion of the budget. The total expenditure of the state budget was EUR 9.3 billion, which is less than planned for the poor 290 million. Implementation at the end of the year was also affected by measures to suspend the implementation of the State budget during the June-September 2011 period. Procedures for the final implementation of the State budget, which have been carried out taking into account the revenue and liquidity situation of the budget, the selected expenditure by budgetary users and the implementation of payments from the EU's earmarked resources and, consequently, the implementation of reimbursements to the state budget. The budget deficit of the state budget was thus €1.5 billion and 4.3% of GDP in 2011. The expenditure of the accounts of financial claims and investments was realised in the amount of €717 million, with a total of €480 million aimed at increasing capital shares and financial investments, namely NLB, Adria Airways and the like, and nearly €224 million of loans given, including loans from Greece. In addition, the recapitalisations of companies operating with losses were around €309 million. In line with the 2011 funding programme, the country owed EUR 3.8 billion. At the end of 2011, government budget debt rose by €3.3 billion, which is 8.5 percentage points, amounting to €15.2 billion, a negative 42% of gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. The views of the Commission will be presented by a member of the Commission, Mr Aloysij Potočnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you. Your Honor! At its 19th regular meeting, the Commission considered the draft final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. In its introduction, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance said that the Government had also sent the Court of Auditors’ audit report to the State Selection in the final draft of the 2011 final budget account and explained the reasons for not taking account of individual audit proposals. The President of the Court of Auditors said that, following the revision of the proposal for a final account, they had given an opinion with a reservation on the general part of the final account and also on the correctness of its execution. With regard to the general part of the final account, he pointed out some cases of books which led to their view that revenue and expenditure were not properly shown. There were similar problems as in the 2010 accounts. In the course of the discussion, a panel member asked why the Government did not take into account the proposed revisions to the auditor regarding the low or excessively expressed revenue and expenditure. He also wondered why so much wealth is valued at €1. He also stressed that public debt has indeed increased significantly between 2010 and 2011, but most of it was for social purposes, education, research, employment and incentives to the economy. The representative of the Ministry of Finance said that, with regard to the valuation of assets of €1, a new inventory of assets had identified a large number of assets for which there was no known information on the purchase value, so they had two options: not to register this property or to record it at a minimum value. They've decided on a second option because they think it's better that the property has some value. However, a different evaluation of these funds was envisaged in 2012. In the case of real estate, GURS valuation, in other cases they gave users one year of time to assess the value of this asset at a comparable market price. In the debate, many issues were also related to debt management and in this context on the replacement of the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia 33 with the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia 59. The Court of Auditors argues that this replacement has resulted in a difference and a potential loss of EUR 2.7 million. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance has ensured that, using the reference market method, the result of this exchange is positive. Representatives of the Court of Auditors explained that the valuation methods could be higher, taking into account the opinion of the expert in the financial sector. They stressed that this was not a mistake, but a warning that there might be a potential loss. The members of the Commission felt that the Government, the Court of Auditors and the Ministry should coordinate on this issue. At the end of the debate, the Commission adopted two conclusions: First. The Commission calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia to harmonise the methodology for the valuation of debt securities as soon as possible. Secondly, the Commission for the supervision of public finances also proposes to the National Assembly that, following consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011, it adopts the following decision: The National Assembly shall adopt the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Here comes a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, but I find that the majority of representatives of the groups of Members have indicated their views or have already expressed their views with this item in the previous item, so that we have only, according to my information, the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik, again. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u108	I will not talk about general matters and specific matters of the budget, but I will shorten the report. The year 2011 is the year of the summit of the political crisis of the previous reference: the old one should die and the new one could not be born. So Gramshi says there's a great deal of morbid symptoms in this government. In this regard, let me just remind you of what has temporarily landed at the historical site: from the pension reform to the almost incredible referendum on black work. Some of the political diagnosis was then very simple and unrealistically high expectations, as it is today. The elimination of inability to rule was found in early elections and not in timely measures during the period of lost opportunities — a significant difference. At that time, one of the oldest rules for democracy's operation in late capitalism, for a developed and functioning social state, was completely overlooked: the capacity of the state policy is only successful for a short period of time, if it succeeds in expanding social alliances and integration mechanisms. There was no urgent political consensus on this fundamental issue, but this time is coming and there is no way to avoid it. Before this question, therefore, the ability to put the interests of the State and its citizens absolutely first, we are also now. The extensive proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 seems to cover all the weight of the work that has not been done so far, as well as some of the successes that have already been mentioned today, particularly in the field of the most urgent operation of the social state. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will support the proposal for a final account for 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you very much. This is how we ended up presenting the views of the parliamentary groups, and I have only two applicants on my list, and I ask you, do you want to discuss it? One has already said that no, Mrs Marija Plevčak no, that means that all of you who wanted to have this opportunity to discuss it. I ask, is there any other wish under the Rules of Procedure, perhaps for those who have not applied? Obviously this is not the wish either, so I am concluding the debate. We will decide on the proposal for a final account in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the votes, this is half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to 18. On the basis of the above, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market and is compatible with the internal market. The draft decision was submitted to the Committee on Home Affairs for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the decision, the chairman of the committee, Ms Maša Kociper. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u110	You give me two minutes, Mr. Chairman, I came from an event. I just need two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u111	Sure. When you're ready, please report. I'm taking five minutes off. I'm calling it off. Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u112	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I had obligations outside the house. As it is said, the mother labour body addressed the proposal for a decision on the allocation of funds to political parties submitted by the government secretariat for consideration, the decision is prepared in accordance with the law as provided for by the law, and based on the last budget of the Republic of Slovenia and under this methodology, the funds obtained by the decision were calculated. The decision accurately defines the funds per political party and sets out specific amounts on the basis of this calculation. I don't think you have to talk about it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much for the committee report. The proposal for a decision will be discussed. It has a text in my list Here I have another written: the proposer – again the committee. [[...]] Mrs Masha Kociper, this has probably been enough of your report, so you won't be discussing it anymore. Probably? In view of this, I no longer have any applications for debate, so I am concluding the debate. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, and the assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in accordance with the time frame of the meeting within half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 10th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 4:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u114	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the 17th periodic report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 29 January 2013. As we say, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and PS to the proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. The beginning of the vote. The vote has been suspended. Please recheck the voting devices. If the card is not inserted, it usually does not work. Okay. Can we vote? Good. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 39. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment of the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats and Positive Slovenia to the proposal for a recommendation was not adopted. This is how we ended the vote on the amendment. Since the amendment has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Recommendation to the 17th Regular Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. We're voting. The start of the vote. There are 64 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 16th item of the agenda and continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 as a whole. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia Budget for 2011 as a whole. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft decision on the level of resources belonging to the individual political party from the State budget in 2013. As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 6. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Jerk Čehovin, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Jerk Čehovin's question on employment in the Slovenian Intelligence Agency. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Janko Weber, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mr Janko Webr's question on how to resolve the government, political and economic crisis. Mr Janko Weber, on behalf of the Group of Members, will explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. I asked the President of the Government how, in the current circumstances, in particular his lost credibility as the most responsible person for the political crisis in Slovenia and the deepened economic crisis, and, last but not least, due to the loss of credibility before the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the international community, he would correct the increasingly distorted view and the deteriorating situation of our country. In his reply, the President found those responsible for such a situation mainly in the members of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, or, in fact, less or less at any point in his conduct when, at least in the current proceedings, he could not explain both cash and non-cash transactions, which, of course, encouraged the Commission to issue an opinion to prevent corruption, which we all know well. We have come into a situation where, in fact, the National Assembly has lost its President during this period, we have come into a situation where coalition parties leave the coalition and in these extremely important times, when in Slovenia, in particular, the economy needs stability and, above all, the situation in the National Assembly, or we need to know who is the one who will negotiate with the social partners, we need to know whether the majority of the Council of State or not has been provided for in this agreement – a whole range of open issues has arisen because the President of the Government obviously cannot make a decision to come to Parliament for a private voice. If he does not decide to come to Parliament and we begin to actively resolve the situation, I think it would be good for us to tell the Members and Members what confidence he has from all of us in the debate. We know that it is not possible to take decisions in this debate, but we can all tell him whether he has a confidential person or not, like any individual who, of course, can participate in this debate in the National Assembly, so I propose that we decide on this option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We are voting on this proposal. The beginning of the vote, please let us vote. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. (There were 34 votes in favour.)(against 43.) I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Tamara Vont, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Vinko Gorenak, to Mrs Tamara Vont's question on the plan for the resolution of the deleted situation. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. (For the vote was 32.)(against 46.) I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Stanka Stepišnika will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Andrej Visiak on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 46. (For the vote was 33.)(against 46.) I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Gaspar Gašpar Mišić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Zvonk Černač to Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's question on the proposed possibility of selling Luka Koper, where the Republic of Slovenia has a capital investment. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group or on behalf of the Group of Members? In your personal name. Here you go, Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u117	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think we're all aware of the seriousness of the situation, the crisis is, Luka Koper can't be a hostage of the political will of this or other party. That's why I think Luke Koper's development is in too much national and national interest and it's time for us to unify here. We can no longer allow ourselves to be delayed and to be politically incapacitated in the way that has happened in the past — we know what has happened and what has happened. That is why I believe it is in the interest of all of us to subordinate our political interests and to put at the forefront what is good for the country. I personally assess that it is essential to develop a capital investment management strategy, among which Porta Koper is certainly and must be. Although this strategy has not yet been developed by the Government, Luka Koper is extremely important for the development of Slovenia and the entire logistics system. This is our key, one of the main comparative advantages in relation to the partner Member States of the European Union. If we ignore the development of Luka Koper and prevent development as planned many years ago, then we can forget about development and the way out of the crisis. This is one of the first tasks of infrastructure projects that we really need to have in mind this year and next year, not to transfer this to 2018 or 2020. It is therefore reasonable to hold a serious debate on the Minister's response, to discuss this and to listen to the opinion of the profession and to the opinions of those who actually understand what development means and what it means to hinder the development of Slovenia if we do not allow the development of the port of Koper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. The beginning of the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with Mrs Alenka Pavlič's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to Mrs Alenka Pavlič's question on the reduction in enrolment of students in high school. We're voting. The beginning of the vote. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with Ms Kociper's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Janez Šuštersič, to Mrs Maša Kociper's question on the prosecution of crimes under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. Mrs Masha Kociper on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would like to explain why I am voting for this proposal to be discussed. Indeed, in Positive Slovenia, and in particular in person all the time since the adoption of the law on so-called bad banks, I warn that this law in the field of prosecution of financial crime is being copied with far too much consequence. In particular, the President of the Government and other members of the coalition have repeatedly stressed that the adoption of this law will allow financial manipulations to be investigated in this country and that the members of the board, members of the supervisory boards, who are responsible for the financial situation in our banks and the banking system, will be held accountable. I say, and also our Group of Members, that Article 33 of this Law does not in any way permit this to happen. Article 33 of the Law – I have read it many times – speaks only of those who will review credit maps having to report the suspicions of possible crimes – this is the case under our legislation, if someone in their work finds a criminal offence, that must be reported, particularly if the offence is punishable by official duty. Although it threatens people who don't do it with resolution, it's not an added value. Another solution is to extend the four-fold delay for these crimes. Anyone who knows our criminal system knows that the statute of limitations is regulated in the Penal Code and that the law applicable in criminal law applies to the law applicable in the service of a criminal offence, unless the new law is milder. Which means that all past machinations, in particular those that are expected to occur most during the period 2004-2008, will by no means be able to enforce this extension of the limitation because the existing law will then apply to these crimes and this extended limitation may be considered to be criminal offences from now on. Thus, this provision is not only tossing sand in the eyes of voters, but to convince them to change anything; it really changes only the activity of the prosecution. Until recently, it has been led by Mrs Barbara Brezigar, and I do not know why this has not already been done, and I suggest that we, my fellow Members, discuss it also in accordance with the proposal of the Minister, in which we will find out what are the real chances of persecuting the perpetrators of these crimes. This is in the interest of Positive Slovenia, we explicitly want these matters to be clarified and to stop insinuating, but to get to the bottom of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much. We're starting the vote. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožef Kavticnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turk, to the question of Mr Jožef Kavticnik's question on the changes in the system of school sports competitions. Mr. Jožef Kavtičnik, on behalf of the delegation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Sport for young people has been well organised in Slovenia for 10 years and has encouraged young people to enjoy a healthy lifestyle. Programmes such as sports brand, Hura free time, sports competitions of school sports companies, elimination of swimming illiteracy, have enabled young people to learn various sports in a playful and relaxed way. Finally, young people acquire sports habits and thus realize that sport is the part of life that strengthens and relaxes their lives at all. On the part of the professional public, we have received a message that, in the light of saving, the Ministry wants to reduce these programmes, to reverse the programmes and thus prevent young people from learning about the sports mentioned above. I asked the Minister a question that I did not get the right answer to. I wanted him to tell me how these programmes will be further organized, who will lead it, who will organize it, and who will supervise it. Since I have not received this answer, I propose that we hold a general debate to tell the Minister how he wants to ensure that young people can live healthy, that they can learn all these sports and not least that they can learn to swim. We know that in the 1970s or millenniums, in Slovenia there were more than ten drownings among young people because there were so many non-floaters. With this swimming program, we have come so far that we are no longer able to talk about swimming illiteracy. That is why I suggest that you, your fellow Members and colleagues, support my proposal, not for me, but for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We're voting. The beginning of the vote. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In line with Mrs Klasinc's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Andrej Visiak asked Mrs Janje Klasinc about the report on psychosocial risks in the workplace in Slovenia. We're voting. The beginning of the vote. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister for Defence, to the question of mags. Barbara Žgajner Tavš in relation to regional information centres. Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will also ask you to give your vote to the proposal to hold a broader debate on the response of the Minister of Defence to the envisaged reorganisation of the regional information centres. Why? Last year, at the proposal of Positive Slovenia, we called a meeting of the Defence Committee on the topic, which was then arousing the public practically overnight. Information has been provided that the regional information centres in at least six regions or locations should be discontinued in the long term. To begin with, night work was discontinued in these exhibits or in these regional centres. At that time, the minister said that with 1. Seven. 2012 the system will work virtually as it worked until this date, and it will not be any different. And I'm going to give the case, on January 24, 2013, which is exactly half a year after this minister's promise, it was a lot different. It was different in Metlika. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] – if you allow me to complete the Fire at Beti Metlik, when launched from the Brežica Regional Centre, because, as you know, no night shifts are taking place in New Town due to this partial reorganisation, it was found that the Pagers were not working and that practical assistance was not triggered at the time when it was to reach the appropriate or competent fire units. [[...]] In short, the system doesn't work like it should after six months of this partial reorganisation. On the other hand, two decisions have been adopted at this meeting of the Committee, which oblige the Minister to inform both the competent committee of the National Assembly and the National Assembly of the consequences of the partial reorganisation and of further action. Since we have neither been informed of the analysis nor of the envisaged procedures of the organisation or the reorganisation forward, I think it makes sense for the competent minister to inform us of this in an extensive debate. I would like to add only to this that the costs which basically led the Minister to this part of the organisation have proved to be a completely unjustifiable criterion. The Minister said that the cost of €680 should be saved at monthly level, concerning travel costs for the whole of Slovenia. I will give another indication that the actual costs of a partial organisation alone at travel costs amount to only EUR 900 per month. In short, it's coming. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] with data operated by the Minister and data such as are actually in reality. [[...]] Please support the proposal to hold a broader debate on this subject in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much. You want to explain your voice? Mr. Jerko Chehovin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you. This proposal, which has been tabled by Mrs Mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, I support you. Indeed, we need to know that in part of these measures, we are also violating the law and the Constitution. We send – I give an example – from Postojna probably from somewhere else, people from Postojna center to Koper who do not speak Italian. We had just these days on the parliamentary benches, and I think we adopted yesterday's opinion of the legal and legal service on bilinguality, and I must say that these people who come from Postojna do not have the knowledge of Italian. Older people in Postojna know that, while younger people don't. That's another reason for the colleague to say that these savings are minimal. It seems to me that this is where it goes more, if I put it this way, for some stubbornness than for serious effective measures in this area. All those fighters for local interests, for your local people, know that this was only the first step towards abolishing your regional centres, which are elsewhere, as listed, from Slovenj Gradac, Murska Sobota, Trubovlje to Postojna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Zanoskar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I will also support this proposal from my colleague Barbara Tavš. This proposal also concerns a centre for the protection and rescue of Koroška. You know that Koroška is a very pervasive area, the configuration is large, and in this case, if this centre were to be transferred to the centre, then we know that there could be major problems and problems. The last case was the November floods in Koroška. If the centre were not then or if the centre were to function in the way it was supposed to, then this disaster would be much greater. I think that security and protection of the inhabitants and residents, citizens and citizens are guaranteed by the Constitution in such a way as to allow for the shortest and fastest possible way of triggering all alarm mechanisms for protection and rescue. So, I agree with the broad debate, and once again let us make this clear and show all the needs that we have in the regional centres for protection and resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u128	Mrs. Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I will also support the proposal of my colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš, because I also asked the Minister of Defence in one of the questions I sent a few months ago whether this is the right way to – as in the case mentioned today by my colleague Žgajner Tavš, when the New City news centre – night shift is moving to Brežice, which means in the Belarusian case that the White Country has no information centre, no night shifts, nor is the New City moving to Brežice. However, we know what this means in the national security plan for the accident at the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, the Brežica Information Centre is supposed to replace and replace the New Town Centre. If we stop him now, we don't know who's gonna replace him. Maybe we'll get all the way to Primorska. In short, I do not think that such a proposal, because it is also such a small amount of savings, is really the right way. But it's time for this to stop. Therefore, I will absolutely support her proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much. You too, ma'am. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Explanation in its own name. It is difficult in these short minutes to justify the meaning of the broader debate, but allow me very briefly. We're not fighters for local interests. I believe that all of us in Parliament should be content fighters behind the planned abolition of the regional information centres for the people. On the board, we heard from health professionals how important it is every minute of human life being saved. For those of you who don't know, this is about regional centers, about those people working at 112. These are not operators who just cross the line forward, these are people who sometimes also rescue a person who on the other side of the line hesitates to commit suicide or not. Even if this person in the right second, the right minute doesn't get the right help on the other side of the phone, believe me, she's going to commit suicide. Persons employed at call centres 112, regional information centres have already managed to prevent such a case. In this case, if we abolish individual regional centres, it is said, in Trbovje, the Zasavski region, in Ptuj, in Slovenj Gradc, that not only people coming from these regions will be harmed, as a result, people in Ljubljana, Maribor will feel that way, because their service, if I say so, will be slower, because now for a larger region this work will be done by fewer people, a smaller number of people. At the same time, we have reduced the number of employees! If I give an example of Ljubljana, an enlarged Ljubljana region, which is also a new region of the Sava region; previously this area was covered by four people; now this new, expanded area is covered by only two people, which means that the response time has increased and we are losing seconds of saving lives. Please reiterate your support for the expanded debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I understand that we can vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 44. (For the vote was 37.)(against 44.) I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to the question of mag. Majde Potrat related to the spillover of funds for higher education activities. Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I propose this debate because, in the course of the budgetary debate, the National Assembly has adopted an amendment with 16 million funding allocated to higher education programmes. Minister Žiga Turk has now decided to distribute this voted amendment with 16 million in his own way, first to split it in half and then in a quarter, and the debate would be necessary in order to see in the National Assembly Members and Members what it is our will, whether we are still insisting on what we have adopted at the time of the debate and the state budget vote, or whether we are giving it to Minister Turk, who now wants to distribute the money in his own way. The amendment was voted in good faith to provide funds for the smooth implementation of the first and second Bologna rates without excessive contraction and unnecessary or reduced funds for the emergency pooling of programmes, which means a reduction in the quality of the study programmes carried out. At the same time, this opens the door to overretribution for higher education teachers and teachers. It is understood that I will support the proposal for a debate itself, and it is up to you to decide whether you want to hear a vision of higher education after the Turk Gigi or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We're starting the vote. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. (For the vote was 35.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majda Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, Dr Žige Turka, to the question of the Mags. Majde Potrat related to the implementation of the investment in Planica. You want a word? Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u135	I propose that you support the debate on the reply of Minister Žiga Turk to this question. I would not mind if this debate were combined with the proposed debate by my colleague Kavtičnik, because this would give the National Assembly the opportunity to discuss the strategy for the development of sport, because we say that the world stands on young people. We are deciding on these issues, which to some extent are also linked to the question I have raised. In the part where the Minister was responsible for investments and the allocation of funds for the construction of the Nordic centre of Planica, it could still be agreed, leaving a very empty space in that part which involved other activities related to sport, in particular the organisational change of the public office of Planica, which would be transformed. And interestingly enough, even if we agree to the policy of this government, which at every step explains that all reorganisations are related to saving, rationalising and similar positions, it is interesting that this reorganisation, which is announced, does not bring any rationalisation, no reduced costs, but will be part of what is also related to youth sport, transferred from this area to the Institute of Education for Winter Sports. In fact, there's only human beings behind all of this. In fact, the story of a number of human replacements, suspensions, head restraints is being spread here, and it is a shame that human capital goes to waste and that it goes to the detriment and in vain of the vast amount of knowledge that these individuals carry. But how long will it take for the new organisational scheme to start working, and there is another story, because right now we are in that phase when this ruling set wants all those who have information, especially to disable and cut them off from information. The debate would be welcome and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, in your own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal to hold a public debate or general debate precisely because Minister Turk could not answer what would happen to these changes, who would take on certain tasks. He cheated here with the answer that twelve people are employed in the field of sports for young people and so on. I checked, three people are, exactly three and a half people are employed. This means, maybe he didn't cheat, maybe he didn't know, so it would be right to dissipate here, get the right information, and that people working in the field -- and these people are a lot, and they're mostly volunteers -- to know what they're waiting for and what changes they're predicting in the field of sports. Therefore, it is only right to support this, it costs us nothing and it will not hurt you if we hold this debate, only something more will we know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u138	Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u139	I will also vote in favour of the debate to resolve these problems with regard to the Nordic centre of Planica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. There were 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Gaspar Gašpar Mišić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zvonk Černač to Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić's question on the adoption of the national programme for the development of Slovenian railway infrastructure. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much. It can also be in the Member State and also in its own name. I think that we are a unit that is extremely important in the integration of Slovenia into European transport flows, when we talk about rail links, we can talk about TEN-T corridor, the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor, the Mediterranean Corridor, Slovenia is extremely unprepared. Everything that has happened in the past has not been done enough to be so carefree today and to say that Slovenia has gained its place in Europe, Slovenia is where it has to be located, and unfortunately it is not. We slept in the past or slept with those who were in positions and had the privilege of managing state property. Today, we are rescued by amendments to the European Parliament, on the committees of our European Members and Members, if they were not there, we would have missed that. I hope that Slovenia will be able to prepare and respond, because this connection, the integration of Slovenia into European transport flows, is very, very important. We know exactly that Slovenia has contact with the sea, we have links across the Adriatic and the Mediterranean via Gibraltar, via Suez, where the most cargo comes across the sea, and we have literally a lot of brakes on the way to a possible central Europe, where Slovenia could actually be an excellent partner with its position and position to supply the whole of Central Europe, if, of course, we could also reach the connection of the entrance ports of the North Adriatic to the port of Trieste, the port of Raven, we can also talk about the port of Venice and others, the port of Rijeka, but this cannot be arranged. I don't know where they're stopping them and where this stumbling block is, that we've dealt more with some ideological divisiveness than actually dealing with Slovenia's integration into European space. The debate that is supposed to take place is not just about some bullshit, but about actually getting acquainted with the whole issue of finding the right solutions and agreeing on measures. Personally, I no longer trust anyone in this country; I do not trust any expert and no politician and no representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I would like to be personally involved and made aware, as a citizen and as a Member. I want to know what's going on in this country in this area, because everything that's been delayed for 22 years — if we leave it on the side — I don't want to be late anymore, I don't want to miss the opportunities that we've been given and that are ahead of us. We must work for this country and for all citizens and citizens, not for individual interests; for those who do not know who do not find their place under the sun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, were you going to explain your voice? That's the kind of information I got. I'm sorry. Anybody else want some? He won't, so we're going to the vote. The beginning of the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I find that the decision has not been taken. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on the tasks and powers of the police in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 January 2013. Amendment to Article 113 first. We are therefore deciding on the amendment of Article 113 of the Social Democrats' Group. Mag. Majda Potrat, explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats has tabled two amendments, to 113th and 114th. Both amendments follow the recommendations of the information officer and are submitted in order not to open up a wide area of power, but to narrow things down so that they are guaranteed to the individual the right not to prejudice the individual rights of the police in monitoring the various events. This is a very sensitive issue, it really weighs between security and individual rights, but we believe that the information officer was sufficiently precise with her recommendations, that the substantive details were sufficiently discussed yesterday, and I now just suggest that these two amendments be supported because they are welcome and appropriate for the functioning of the system in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I think we can vote. We are voting on the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors, Social Democrats, to Article 113. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 114 of the Social Democrats' Group. You've explained your voice before, obviously, so there's no need to explain your voice. That is why we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. That is why we are moving to the vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members attended, 65 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second consideration of the draft law on organisation and police work in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 29 January 2013. We will first decide on the amendment of Article 12 of the Social Democrats' Group. Does anyone want to explain their voice? Mag. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u145	The article discusses the very sensitive relationship between the Minister and the Director-General of Police. If we weigh what matters the Minister should be informed of, one exception is still essential, and this is one that we believe is that the Director-General of the Police, who is the head of the professional body and is the professional function, should not inform the Minister, who is a political official, of those events which could have any effect on the functioning of the police as a professional institution. It's about things that the minister could use as a political official. This is a sensitive issue, which the current minister felt at the time as a sensitive issue until he was Minister of the Interior. I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u146	Mrs. Masha Kociper in her own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I'm joining the words of my colleague. I don't think there's really any reason why the minister should be informed about the operational work of the police before the event. It is entirely sufficient that he is informed after the event has already taken place. The point of such information is that, as the chairman of the body or as the minister in his field, he is aware of the current events and cannot in any way influence the progress of the operational work of the police, for which there is no reason at all. It seems strange to me that anyone does not support the amendment, which so clearly and restrictively tells what the minister can and should not do, and should not be disputed with anyone. If we accept such an amendment, even for every single minister, there is a suspicion that he could influence anything, and I do not know what the problem is. I'll support the amendment myself, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. This amendment cannot be supported because it follows one strange logic in order for the Police Director to have a discretionary right to report on what to the Minister responsible on behalf of the Department and the Ministry. However, such a dictatorship is exactly the same and the same as it was in the previous law, in a prepared law, which was even proposed by Minister Kresalov, and these arguments are that the Minister wants to politically impede the work of the police in this way are completely unfounded. It is true that this follows logic and thinking, if the police are mostly more under the influence of the left, and we can thus influence that the Minister responsible will not know about the matter that he is investigating, and will then become uncreditable to the public and we will be able to put into interpolation and so on and we will have an uncreditable minister. Such logic must be rejected on behalf of the State and the State, because such logic is unheard of. Of course, such logic cannot and cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I find that there is still an interest in explaining the vote on my behalf, so I am opening the application. Please sign up. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u151	Chairman, thank you very much. I will personally support the amendment because I believe that it is unacceptable for policy to be subjected to the profession and that this practice, which we have inherited from the past, should be discontinued. It was enough to put politics on top of expertise, specifically when talking about the police, political recruitment at the top of the police force, that is to say, the degradation and deterioration of the image of the police themselves, the confidence of citizens and citizens in the work and credibility of our police. As we have seen in these days in the debate, Slovenia's human resources system, when it comes to public sector recruitment, is highly politically contaminated and, in fact, as I said in the introduction, it is necessary to stop such a system of recruitment. If no experts, independent people, are running important places in state institutions, then this country is not well written. The only right thing to do would be to employ a career to actually know that it will not be replaced within a year or two years. There are actually free hands here for the minister to decide to replace the man at the top of the police force, which is unacceptable. He's ignoring expert opinions. Why do we have all the other independent commissions? No! No! This is unnecessary in this case, you will see, once the political option has changed, you will regret that you have adopted such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look. It is right that the Minister of the Interior is informed when the security of this country is threatened when they are victims, but it is not right that he is informed of exactly what the police are investigating, whether it is premature or during the investigation itself. I must say that I do not agree with this kind of broad mandate that the Minister is supposed to have so that he can be informed of everything. On the one hand, the Director-General of the Police, who is so-called and so-called, will definitely submit to the will and election of the Minister himself, seek and give the Minister as much information as possible. Of course, there is a risk that the Minister will be able to influence the progress of police work for the sake of all the information he will receive in these police investigations, prosecutions or investigations. For this reason and for the preservation of some democracy of this country, where rights are protected, where there is knowledge of who is doing and what the police are in relation to the political body is, what the minister is, it would be right to remain so that the Minister is informed only and exclusively of the threat to the security of the country, if it is victims and so on, but not of everything that could be important to the public, as the law states.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u155	I must say, too, that this amendment must be accepted. In fact, the non-admission of this amendment practically means a step towards a police state, or if I say otherwise, it is the calling of zombies from a single-party system 25 years ago, because the Director-General will practically inform the Minister of what is not a professional basis, just so he would like not to make any mistakes. In short, this means servitude and inferiority of the Director-General of Police to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you. The fact that the law on the organisation and the work of the police has undergone the first hearing and has been identified as a suitable basis for further consideration already in the previous term is acceptable, but this does not affect what the provisions would be in the final form of the law if the law went to second and third readings in the previous term. So making big stories out of it makes no sense. In fact, behind this addition and the lack of support for this supplement, there is a fear that there should never be any other police director-general who should say that he resigns for personal reasons because he has not informed the Minister of anything that the Minister would be able to act in the way that he would, in his political opinion and function, consider that he must act. That's what this is about! For the possibility of interfering with the operational work of the police, which is secured by this. It is only those cases where the work of the police would be hampered or that would have any other consequences that are incompatible with the proper work of the professional police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment must be absolutely supported. See if the Minister of the Interior is informed of all matters, including what is happening in the Patria case, and is a client colleague of his boss, Prime Minister Janez Janš, then an extremely interesting situation in Slovenia, where the Director of Police informs the Minister, and this President of the Government, who then accuses the Prosecutor of this country, who should take care of everything in order to make it all right. It's not right, ladies and gentlemen! It is also not right because, if it were not – as it would be now if we did not accept this amendment – the Minister of the Interior of the Police would, of course, be informed that the next day they will arrest Mr Vodušk and should inform the President of the Government not to go on that TV and have that interview. It's not right, ladies and gentlemen! It is not right that this should happen, it is wrong that this is happening if it is happening, so this amendment must be absolutely accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you very much. My colleagues, my colleagues, you did not convince me to support this amendment of yours, for a simple reason, because we said yesterday, when we were discussing this law, that in this case it was only about the fact that the Minister was informed of individual events, and it is not really what some of you are now saying in explanation. Therefore, it is also informed of the specific information and of the individuals involved in the proceedings. That's not true, it can't be, and it won't be informed, unless, of course, someone does something on their own. How'd it go with the Bulmastifs? Who do you think the police should inform? A minister or a prosecutor? Who did she notify five hours later as secretary? The prosecutor or the prosecutor! Yeah! To such anomalies of individuals who do not perform their functions as they do here in the National Assembly and hold their hand over the Constitution and say that they will work for the good of the country, such anomalies cannot be removed by law. But this is only about the Minister having principled information, not about specific individuals. Of course, it will not be informed, nor will it be of the operational information to be carried out at an event, so I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it would be good if we stopped speaking in code. In Slovenia, as it is, there are no independent institutions and there are no independent senior officials, state officials. Everyone's dependent on someone. In my opinion, this amendment has no effect, whether we accept it or not, because if the Minister is not formally informed, it will, clearly, be informal. That's what past events show. Of course, the independence of institutions is not achieved by law, but by other means. And there's something else you need to say. The problem of Slovenia is extremely small, we all know each other and these informal links are taking place. I don't think there's anything wrong with me personally. Look, the minister is basically the first man in the police force. Yes, how does this not seem to be reported to him or not to be in close contact? That's a little funny! It is said, however, that the current coalition would be working so badly that it would be written harmfully for the current opposition – but the relationship could change quickly! [[...]] That's what they say. These fears are completely out of my league.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. (There were 34 votes in favour.)(against 44.) I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 48. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs Maša Kociper. I'm sorry if I didn't see you before.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u165	It's no big deal, Chairman. Thank you so much for saying that. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia has indeed not invented anything new in this amendment, we are working to maintain the previous standard of appointment, and in particular the discharges of the Director of Police. We believe that the derogation from the established standard after only a good two years of application of the law is not reasonable, but according to the previous standard, the appointment of the director of the police is influenced by an independent group of experts who will assess whether the one who has been declared responsible for this function is indeed the most appropriate. Such an arrangement, in our view, is a better arrangement than that which equates the appointment of a police director with the appointment of other public servants. The Director of Police is special, he has special powers and tasks, and there is no need to compare it with public servants, gold in the event of discharge. Much more than appointment, we are disturbed by the fact that it is possible to resolve the Director of Police by swinging one hand, which means that already capable experts will not even want to sign up for this function if this discharge, which can be so easily accomplished at any time when his superiors, let us hope in their professional activities, will not be satisfied at all. In short, we are working to ensure that career experts at some top level are considered to be as difficult conditions as possible to resolve and to force every time a political official to compete with a certain period perhaps with someone who has been elected before and not to be recruited at all levels only by personal trust, but in particular by professional competences. We will, of course, vote for our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u166	I see a desire to explain my voice. On behalf of himself or anyone else on behalf of the Group of Members? In your own name? That's why I'm opening the application. Please sign in. Mr. Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment either, because, as it is now proposed, it is the only logical and completely clear to propose, appoint and discharge the Director of Police on a proposal from the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Now it is known who calls whom, what he is called, who discharges him, and thus assumes a clear responsibility. You remember in 2009, how it was, I think, around seven candidates applied for the director of the police and then the Minister of State didn't choose any of these seven candidates, except to repeat the call. But she made her own decision, with the door closed, somewhere far away from the public, somewhere far away from the system, and made her own system, which was called the appointment of the Police Director by Minister Katarina Kresal. So let it no longer happen in this country, so this is a clear diction, and I will not support your amendment to drive you back into the fog.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u169	Look, people are very angry because there's a lot of politicisation of organs, because there's all kinds of clientelism in it, and at this point, we can avoid clientelism. The appointment of the Director-General of Police is in fact no longer the guardian of an autonomous professional commission to confirm the candidate. If you look at the existing legislation, the current legislation has set out precisely the specific reasons for the discharge of the Director-General of Police and, inter alia, in the fourth point: if it violates the duties of the Director-General of Police or if it violates the conduct or abandonment of the duty of control, it seriously damages the reputation, the legality of acting on the operational autonomy of the police. What are we doing now? The Director-General of the Police will be able to relieve the Minister without explanation when he takes office. He will resolve because he does not like it, not because the Director-General of Police has to carry out a professional task and is in fact independent of it. For this reason, of course, I call on colleagues and colleagues to support this amendment, which in fact brings back the situation that is today, in such a way that, despite all things, the Director-General of Police, regardless of his appointment, has greater autonomy than he will have when we do not accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u171	Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support this amendment for a simple reason: not because I would have a previous practice of Katarina Kresal, not because Vinko Gorenak introduces this practice, but because we live in a democratic society that has some dangerous restriction. Slovenia is an extremely small country, we have already talked about it today, and there can be a lot of customerism here very quickly. The current system, as set up, has at least partly rejected this. I think there was a strong guarantee that that didn't happen. It seems to me that it is unacceptable for the Minister to dismiss or appoint someone for no real reason, without any real explanation, especially if it is the Director-General of the Police. Earlier, colleague Meh had talked about the influence the Minister may have on the Director-General, and this should not be the case. This function has to be autonomous, and you both have to work together, not that you're best friends.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 33 votes against 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to Article 50. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 31 to 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI to Article 47. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. It's 63 votes to 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been adopted. We will decide on the amendment of the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI to Article 79. Note, the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 109. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 109 becomes irrelevant. Explains the voice, Mr Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will support this amendment. In fact, the content of this amendment is also systematically regulated by bilingual police operations, although initially this content was not available in the first reading of the law, but, in many circumstances, this has occurred. Today, we are pleased that we have managed to achieve as much as 100% consensus in the coordination process, i.e. all stakeholders, both the national community and the police, as well as the ministry, and I hope that we all unanimously support this text of the amendment to the 79th Article here in the National Assembly. Since this article is related, as has already been announced, to Article 109, I also announce my support for that amendment. Well, we'll support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, Ms Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u175	In view of the debate on the Committee, where the solution to Article 79 and Article 109 was different and that proposed solution, the Legislative and Legal Service objected because it found a discrepancy with Article 11 of the Slovenian Constitution, including the previously tabled amendment of the coalition, which also did not support it. This amendment is now such that it also fulfils the conditions for the support of the Social Democrats' Group of Members because the condition for supporting this amendment was that they agree with the amendment on behalf of the representative or Member of the national communities. The statement we have just heard is such that I can also give my support on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you very much. In his own name, Mr. Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! It is true that, in accordance with Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the last paragraph, this article states, quote: "Laws, other regulations and general acts concerning the exercise in the Constitution of certain rights and the situation of only national communities cannot be adopted without the consent of representatives of national communities." In this case, agreement was given today, and I am warning, despite all that this law and this amendment – and this has already been discussed on the committee, also problematic by the Legislative and Legal Commission – is actually reducing the constitutional rights that are written down here. I know you'll be nosy, I don't know why you're nosing, I don't know if you're the Constitutional Court, Minister, but once again I'm talking about reducing the fact that someone will come to a bilingual area and two years, a police officer won't speak a language for two years, is, of course, an interference with the rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia living in this area, and two years – or when they contact a police officer – they won't be able to agree in their own language, which this constitution guarantees. That is why I am at the crossroads, although the representatives of the national community have said accordingly, but I must say that from the perspective of the citizen and his rights, I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u178	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u179	Of course, the debate always ran in this direction more to solve the human resources problem at one end of Slovenia, where the staff is employed, which is difficult to obtain. In such a case, there is always a problem when it comes to rights, that is, knowledge of the language with which we have committed ourselves to one and the other minorities. But I have a personal problem because of this because we have given the green light – and I have to say here that I am truly surprised that some have so easily agreed to this fact, I am surprised that we have intervened no longer in the human resources rescue of the police on the ground, but rather in the question of what they will say when they come to the country and talk to the Prime Minister, the President of the State and the President of the National Assembly when they are looking for similar rights in the place. I'm talking about Italy, Koroška, Hungary. In short, I don't know what we're gonna say. In fact, we're going to turn on the green light for everyone so they can do something similar on the other side. In fact, this is a very subtle limit that we cross and begin to reduce certain rights. Such a proposal – I believe it will be adopted because most are guaranteed by an existing coalition – I cannot support this because this will open up the green light to some other rights in the language field in the Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u180	Mr. Roberto Battelli. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Well, the Constitution and our regulation are clear on this, as well as on the international obligations of Slovenia to protect, protect the rights of national communities, all national communities. We therefore have certain constitutional and international obligations. This country has ratified, for example, the European Charter on Minority or Regional Languages, including the European Charter on the Protection of National Communities, Minorities and so on. Thus, the arrangements in force must be applied, and they must be implemented. As regards this problem, for example in the area of Kopra, some 200 such cities would be needed. The police now have 131 people with language skills. Those who currently occupy certain jobs and do not meet this condition are given – usually – two years of time to acquire this knowledge. That's all this is about. If they're not there, they're gone. That's why we need Article 109, and it's operationalized there, it's very lifelike what's written in these two articles. From a certain point forward, anyone who occupies such a place must first meet this condition The police are concerned that these personnel are constantly being prepared. As such, the national community has helped and organised courses for these police officers through European funds and so on. This dialogue and this matter develops and develops in a way that is lifelike and based on trust and respect and normal coexistence [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Dr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you very much. In explanation of the Group's position, I did not resort to legal matters, but this law is now systematically regulated by the bilingual conduct of the police, because this law has not been done so far, because it was simply not in law. We also originally wanted to solve this matter under the General Law on the National Community, but I will not go into concrete terms now. However, in terms of the web of circumstances, matter has entered into this law. If it is here, then the correct approach is as it is now set up, and there is no way that the rights of the national communities are being reduced, since, as Mr Battelli has pointed out, Article 109 explicitly states that the two-year shift applies to the already prevailing situation. So it's not like that in any way. However, as regards the first sentence of Article 79, it expressly defines the bilinguality of business, which has not been in the existing law so far. So, in our view, the amendment is fully acceptable and clearly confirmed the position of the Legal and Legislative Service, which in the course of the debate on the amendments or at the time of the drafting of the amendment really cooperated constructively and we were looking for the best possible solution for all stakeholders, including the police, but mainly in terms of the realization of the rights of indigenous national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u185	Your Honor! I am pleased that some progress has been made in the agreement on this Article. But I would like to point out something else. As soon as we record in the law that an individual police officer has two years to learn the language, we delay the time that it will be valid. Look, this can easily be done with internal organization in the police or in other public services. I think that, in terms of respect for human rights and minority rights in Slovenia, we must be aware that bilingualism is still a problem in the mixed territories. I have seen in my own eyes how sick citizens of the Republic of Slovenia came to contact a doctor and a pharmacist who did not know the Italian language. There are problems in the congregation, problems everywhere. In the case of police officers — not just police officers — and here I think we should do everything we can to make sure that those who go to the field are able to do so, but a police officer who is still learning can do other tasks before dealing with customers or people in the field. That's why I won't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u186	Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Chairman. It's kind of different in practice. In practice, police officers find themselves always on the ground two; one speaking the Italian language and the other not able to do so, at least until now. However, what is happening here – as colleagues and colleagues have pointed out – is that we are working here to compromise that the difference in employment of other public servants is in bilingual areas, where constitutional rights are guaranteed to national communities. Then it can happen that anyone will be employed, for example, in an administrative unit in the territory of the municipalities of Piran, Izola and Koper, he will have some problems because he will say that in the Police Act you did this and in the second Employment Act there is no possibility. Therefore, we should do justice for all if this compromise is supposed to be on the part of the national communities, of course, because it is an open, offered deadline, so far it has not been possible. However, I am not sure that everyone agrees, members of the national communities in particular on the Coast, that the police do not need to know the Italian language for two years. I know that everyone who lives on the coast speaks and masters both Italian and Slovenian languages. However, there is now some compromise and I think that other laws that restrict employment in public administration and require knowledge as a condition of higher knowledge of the Italian language should also be considered, otherwise they cannot be employed. Otherwise, I will personally support the amendment, because we have no other way out, because without this amendment this law would be absolutely unconstitutional with regard to the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I think we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment of Article 80 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We turn to Article 83 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to this article. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 1. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to 109th Article and the amendment of the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI to this Article. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 2. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Given that two amendments or three have been adopted – that is, that amendments have been adopted – I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration at this meeting. Please, Mr. Minister, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with Article 138, if I have yet to remember from my previous term, please, if a third reading discussion is still taking place at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the proposer of the bill proposes that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The beginning of the vote. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 30. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 30.]] It means that more than a third of the Members present objected. I take it that the decision has not been taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We vote on this proposal for a decision. We're voting. The beginning of the vote. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 5. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Animals under the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 January 2013. We are considering Article 7 and are deciding on the amendment of the SDS, DL, SLS, Desus and NSI to Article 7. Explanation of voice. Mag. Dejan Židan on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Social Democrats will support all three amendments. These amendments are all going in the direction we discussed on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. We are also pleased that support for this law is probably even such that we have a large coalition composed, and we also note that, at this point in Slovenia, there is no serious problem of asylum and we suggest that similar unity and similar efforts be made to resolve the difficult situation, and we show all together in the second step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-30-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u192	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. That is why we are moving to the vote. We therefore vote on the amendment to Article 7. The beginning of the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 1. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to Article 18 and the amendment of SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI and the Social Democrats' Group of Members to Article 18. So these two amendments are substantively the same, so we will vote on them together. We therefore decide on the amendment of SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI's parliamentary groups and on the amendment of the SD Group of Members of the Social Democrats to Article 18. I apologize for confusing things a little bit, but I think it is clear that we are voting on both amendments together. Anybody want to explain their voice? Obviously not. That's why we're voting. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. It's 78 votes against no one. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendments have been accepted. We are moving on to Article 25, and we are deciding on the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 25. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 76 votes against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. There were 75 votes against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item I'm adjourning the 10th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
