ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, mag. Melita Zupevc, mag. Katarina Hočevar from 16:00 p.m., Mrs Janja Attack until 12 noon, Mr. Jakob Preseknik, mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Franc Jurša from 12 o'clock on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Mining Act by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Bojan Kumru, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me first to sincerely thank all the professional services and the Legal and Legislative Service for their quality contribution at the time of the adoption of the amendment of the law before us today, for its consideration in the National Assembly. What does the novelty of the law actually bring, and why have we prepared it? What's the point? To correct and supplement the law in works, because it is no longer possible to implement it as a result of mistakes, shortcomings and inconsistencies within the law and non-compliance with other rules. In this regard, we stress in particular that the amendment allows for the extension of mining rights to all concessionaires who have obtained mining rights before the entry into force of the current applicable ZRud-1C law, and that ZRud-1B has allowed them to extend them until 2014 only, that is to say 31. 12. 2013, by the end of this year. In the event of non-conformity of exploitation with spatial acts of the municipality, i.e. intentional use, the extension may be extended up to a maximum of 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. When fulfilling the condition of compliance with spatial law on the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the law no longer imposes time limits on the extension. In addition, implementation of the European Directive on the safety of offshore oil and gas activities has been carried out. What else does it bring? It prepares the basis for the above-mentioned extension of mining rights and concessions after 31. 12. 2013; regulates the procedures for the authorisation of exploration and concessions for exploitation, systematically records the conditions for the issue of a mining concession act and the conditions for obtaining mining rights and the content of a particular type of application. Fourthly, it coordinates the procedures for the transfer of mining rights in respect of bankruptcy with the law governing bankruptcy. As a fifth time, it regulates the inspection of illegal mining operations. As a sixth time, it prepares a good legal basis for the registration of responsible auditors in the directory of authorised persons in mining. Week, coordinates the directory of authorised persons in mining with the provisions of the novel. It transposes European Directive 2011/0309, the so-called offshore directive. Ninthly, it corrects the concept of the removal of illegal bathing; tenthly, the exclusion of the requirement of a mineral exploitation programme because it has no added value; it corrects the conditions for the exploitation of a geothermal energy source. The 12th time, due to the removal of administrative barriers, a legal basis is provided for the administrative authority to be able to obtain data from tax, bankruptcy and criminal records on its own; to correct and supplement the procedure for the conclusion of the concession contract; to prepare a clear basis for the calculation of the concession fee on the basis of the acquisition space; to correct and supplement the conditions for the confiscation of mining rights; to correct contradictory texts relating to the powers of technical management and control of mining works in article 80 of the law; to abolish the institution of complaints to the Government in most proceedings, which will facilitate the resolution of proceedings; to standardize the calculation of the costs of final recovery and to establish fines. Finally, transitional provisions are laid down to allow those who have acquired certain rights under the old law to exercise these rights under the applicable law. Dear Members and honourable Members! I believe that today the law will acquire a qualified majority, and I want a constructive debate to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Sam Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A respected choir! At its 28th urgent meeting, on 16 December 2013, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. At its 73rd meeting, on 28 November 2013, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled for members of the Coalition's parliamentary groups up to 22 and for members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group up to 3 members. On behalf of the proposer, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space Mag. Bojan Kumer said that the proposed amendment contained changes that would allow for the extension of mining rights to those concessionaires who had a valid mining right on Day 1. 1. 2011. Ensuring the continuity of the exercise of mining rights is essential at existing mining sites where, due to reduced construction activities, it was not possible to make use of the available mineral resources during the period of mining rights. In addition, the aim of the novel is to eliminate inconsistencies in the applicable law with other rules and to comply with European Union legislation. In her presentation of the written opinion, Sladjana Ješić, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, pointed out in the introduction that the provisions of the proposal govern the legal void, since the Mining Act 1 did not provide for a transitional regime under the Mining Act for several procedures. It further stated that in its written opinion, comments were made on the compatibility of individual provisions with the rules of nomotechnics and pointed out the inconsistencies in the posting of articles. Their comments are largely taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Jernej Verbič, said that the Commission supported the proposal for a law, since, in the event of the failure to extend mining rights, concessionaires would not be able to remedy the consequences of exploitation in the area of acquisition until 31 December 2013, without the mining right to do so after that date, so without the adoption of the proposed amendment of the law, such an area would remain unscanned and concessionaires should end their activities. In the debate, members of the opposition objected to the adoption of legislation under time pressure, as in view of the numerous comments made by the Legal and Legal Service and the number of amendments tabled in their view, it would be better to take a systematic approach to amending the legislation. They pointed out that the proposal did not comply with all stakeholders in the drafting of the bill. The Committee further adopted all amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party by Articles 32 and 59. However, the SLS Group remained immaterial to the 25th Article. The Committee adopted the following amendments, namely Articles 4, 5, 16, 25, 60, 61 and 62. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted both articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of the Ministry, Mr Kumer and both co-workers. Good bye to all of you! The proposal for a amendment to the Mining Act contains amendments and additions which will make it possible after 31 December 2013 to extend mining rights to those concessionaires who had a mining right on 1 January 2011 and make it impossible for them to extend the existing law by mistake. By the end of this year, the majority of such premises will not have eliminated the consequences of exploitation, which cannot be done without the mining right after that date, so without the adoption of the proposed novel, such areas would remain unscanned and concessionaires should end their activities. As a result, this could mean a loss of between 200 and 400 jobs and between 400 and 700 jobs by March 2014. It also reduces concessions, totalling more than €100,000. At the same time, the novel is one of the tasks of managing the grey economy in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendment therefore corrects the shortcomings of the current law, which did not regulate the transfer of certain rights already acquired under the old law, which makes it impossible to carry out certain procedures. For example, it will be impossible to conclude concession contracts with legal and natural persons who have been issued a decision on the selection of the concessionaire under the old law. The note also corrects irreparable consequences in the work relating to the registration of responsible auditors in the directory of authorised persons in mining. Although the law in force has transferred those responsible auditors who are registered under the old law into a new law, it has not provided a legal basis for including persons who have fulfilled the conditions of entry after the application of this law. The note also contains less difficult amendments to the law, such as correction of errors in the text, harmonisation of individual parts of the law and removal of administrative barriers. Finally, I should like to express my disagreement with the DeSUS Group that it also governs this bill of pressure on members of the National Assembly and places on us the responsibility for possible sanctions on the part of the European Commission if we are to adopt a proposal for a law in order to implement European directives as soon as possible. That is why we in the DeSUS Group have already warned, when considering the draft amendment, that it would be more appropriate first to transpose only the necessary directives into our legal order and thus avoid any penalties, while the other substantive things would have been done more slowly or taken more time to do so. As I have announced, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will support this amendment of the law. We will also support the proposed amendments to the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u8	Your Honor! Let me begin by reminding you that the members of the National Assembly of the Mining Act, due to the time limit of the mining rights granted, have already changed in June last year. At that time, we adopted an amendment stipulating that companies could have their mining rights extended for a maximum of 31 years. 12. 2013 Public officials at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space therefore knew from July last year that at the end of December this year the problem would arise if the law did not change, as certain companies would lose their mining rights. The Minister, who took over the department in the spring, should also be informed of the situation and time limits in this area and therefore bears an objective responsibility. Nevertheless, the government did not send the amendment to Parliament until late November and proposed an urgent procedure. The novelty was not discussed at an emergency meeting at the home working body until Monday, 16 December. Thus, we Members and Members of the decision are again forced to take action just before the present, as did the Energy Act. In Novi Slovenija, I find this unprofessional and shows the poor work of employees at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. We Christian Democrats wonder when it will finally begin to take place in a serious, fair and appropriate manner. It may also be an opportunity for some at the Ministry to consider leaving their jobs to those who would be able to do things better and with greater hearing for those entities whose law is primarily intended and who know the problems that arise in practice. In addition to extending the deadlines, the competent ministry in the paper also proposed several other amendments to the law, to which the professional and interested public was quite critical. The Chamber of Governors of Slovenia thus drew attention to the problems that may arise from insolvency proceedings, in particular Article 25. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also pointed out that the novelty in many articles deviates from the established rules on the writing of laws and that provisions governing the execution of auctions relating to the acquisition of mining rights should be substantively added. Let me also mention that in the New Slovenia Group, we have been warned that the government unilaterally increased mining concessions by about 45% and so rudely reached into already acquired rights and agreements. The non-constitutionality of this Regulation also lays down in several points the legal opinion of the Institute of Public Administration. We Christian Democrats believe that such behaviour by the government and the ministry in a time of marked economic crisis cannot be helpful to businesses and shows that the Government speaks one way and works another. On the one hand, it says that businesses need to be provided with an appropriate business environment and, on the other hand, they are choked with new taxes and higher taxes. The discussion on the working body confirmed the presumption that the bill was not prepared optimally and that solutions that are not substantively finalized and debated by experts in this area will now be adopted due to time constraints. In practice, therefore, problems and different interpretations of the law are likely to arise. Because of all that is said in New Slovenia, we cannot support the bill with enthusiasm to the government and leave the coalition Members with the opportunity to take responsibility for the adopted provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velinja. At the same time, I would like to mention to you, fellow Members, that amendments have been tabled on the e-club. So I'm asking you to take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u10	Dear President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a amendment to the Mining Act contains amendments that will allow the extension of mining rights after 31 December of this year to those concessionaires who had mining rights on Day 1. 1. However, the existing ZRud-1B law does not allow them such an extension. By the end of this year, there will therefore be no elimination of the consequences of exploitation, which cannot be done without mining rights after that date. Therefore, without the adoption of the proposed novel, these areas should remain unscanned and concessionaires should end their activities. The note also corrects errors in the work relating to the registration of responsible auditors in the directory of authorised persons in mining. Although the law in force has transferred those responsible auditors who are registered under the old law into a new law, it has not provided a legal basis for including persons who have fulfilled the conditions of entry after the application of this law. In our consideration, we have given the proposed law a lot of attention, and we have listened to the arguments of the profession, which has drawn attention to the articles dealing mainly with rehabilitation. We also noted that the length of the concession ratio has not always been granted on the basis of the stocks found and the anticipated acquisition. The upper limit was 20 years. We must be aware that we are living in a market economy because it is to the extent that the market dictates. And this one is constantly changing. It is therefore virtually impossible to reconcile the stocks in advance with the acquisitions for a specified period. New stocks are therefore identified during the exploitation, in parallel with research works. In the market, prices and space are not determined by laws, regulations and decisions, but only by quality and proof that the raw material can be supplied under stable conditions while respecting all environmental and other professional conditions. In view of this proposal, the Group of Members will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposed law contains amendments and additions to allowing for the extension of mining rights to those concessionaires who had a valid mining right on Day 1. 1. In 2011, the Mining Act-1B allowed them such an extension until only 31. 12. 2013 The accompanying text states that if the proposal was not adopted at the beginning of December 2013, the mining rights would not be extended until 31. 12. 2015, severe remedial effects both for the State and for concessionaires. Initially, we note that the individual provisions of the draft law are governed by a legal void which has arisen since the Mining Act 1 in 2010 did not provide for a transitional regime under the Mining Act for several procedures. This way of regulating the transitional regime deviates significantly from the rules of the nomotechnics and from the constitutionally guaranteed principle of legal certainty, which seeks to ensure predictability of legal positions or legal relations, thus requiring clarity and accuracy of legal rules. Since the entry into force of the Mining Act, 1 has been almost 3 years and it is therefore extremely difficult to assess the relevance of these transitional provisions, given the impreciseness of expressing the provisions themselves. Although the legislative process that ended this year has already been under way in this area. 6. 2013 by decision of the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In the previous legislative procedure, the Legislative and Legal Service has also drawn up an opinion and highlighted the requirements that must be met by the content of legislation, the constituent part of which in the legislative procedure is also an explanation which allows for the assessment of the proposed solutions, so that the content and purpose, or the objective pursued by the standard, can be identified. In view of the above, it is noted that some of the comments made in the previous opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service have been taken into account, some have been further clarified, some have also been released, and many have also been reintroduced. In case of non-renewal of mining rights in the accommodations concerned, the consequences of exploitation would not have been eliminated or would have remained unscanned. However, most concessionaires whose exploitation of mineral raw materials is a core or principal activity should end their activities. Rights and obligations under mining rights in the event of bankruptcy shall be temporarily assumed by the Republic of Slovenia. This, however, has the possibility of granting mining rights by public tender to other legal or natural persons, but in the event that mining rights are not granted, the cost of remedying the burden of the State remains. In addition to the cost of recovery, the non-renewal of mining rights would have a negative financial impact also on the payment of concessions. It also transposes certain Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into our legal order. The way in which a concession is obtained for the exploitation of a geothermal energy source is more clearly governed by the conditions that a legal or natural person must fulfil in order to obtain a permit for exploration and mining rights for exploitation. In the process of adopting the bill, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments on more than half of the articles. The comments were very detailed on the working body and the individual articles were largely corrected by amendments. However, some of the outstanding issues related to bankruptcy proceedings remained at Articles 25, 32 and 59 of the novel. Therefore, the decision to support the law by our parliamentary group will depend on today's vote on the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The Group of Social Democrats is due to present its position, Mr Srečko Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Members and Members of the Social Democrats Group will be supported by the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. I would also like to commend the Ministry, the Secretary of State and the civil servants who prepared this law, for they have shown a great deal of readiness and expertise that we have tried to obtain in a really short time all the opinions we needed to adopt or prepare those amendments that will do the least harm that could still occur in the exploitation of the so-called mining rights. However, we have also entered this government with thought and with the knowledge that it will not be easy. That is why we will also take responsibility for this law this time, because we know that it is necessary to adopt amendments to the law and to allow legal entities and the rest to work in this area as they must. Of course, some things will also need to be known today. First of all, we have to make a new mining law. This is an awareness that cannot be managed by public officials, but must be guided by a policy, a responsible minister and we here, where we need to make a demand for a new mining law with all the necessary, which is accompanied by a very short but reasonable time. We should have long ago, ladies and gentlemen, as we call it, adopted amendments to the law and introduced the European directives into our legal order, and we have not done so. It is of no importance to speak today about who has not done and what the government has not done so far. This government and we will adopt amendments to the law and allow it to continue in this area. Once again, despite a short period of time, there was quite a lot involved in the fact that these changes in marriage were the best that could be done. I draw attention to the role of municipalities, the role of the state, the role of concessionaires and the exploitation of everything that is going on here, especially in terms of spatial and other constraints – can also be environmental. And it also seems to me that he is in the exploitation of oz. In the case of acquisition rights and concessions, two or three must be said. There are concessions that are not problematic; they are concessions that are problematic from environmental or environmental or spatial, even because of neighbours. Therefore, the responsibility of the State, the holder of mining rights and the municipalities must be very carefully agreed upon in the new law, so that we have the least problems here. And there's something else that I think is important. The bankruptcy procedures, the preservation of jobs – also here this is extremely important and, in my opinion, covered by this law, so that those who acquire mineral raw materials can continue their work in bankruptcy proceedings. I'm sure that's what we said in the marriage. I comment on what has been said here, and the position of the Social Democrats is that, while we have begun to do the Energy Act in June this year, we have adopted this law, I believe – we have also prepared well and that it has been possible to participate very much in the fact that the law is so that it will be the best at this time. I believe we're going to change it. And here it is necessary to say that at the same ministry I do not think it was possible to make two laws parallel, which would be as difficult as the Energy Act and, in my opinion, the Mining Act. Therefore, I can confirm once again that it is necessary to adopt a law to remedy the consequences that were not – and my predecessors have also talked about – of extending after January 31st and 1st 2011. Therefore, it is also our view that laws should be drawn up in time and that we should not leave so short a time for our debate. But it is true and right to try and make the most of it in a very short time to deal with the serious consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the Ambassador of the Group of the National Gazette, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! Key amendments to the bill are the extension of mining rights by 31. 12. 2013, the simplification of the procedure for issuing a concessional act, the procedure for concluding a concession contract and the procedure for granting mining rights for exploration and exploitation, as well as the completion of the auction procedure and the completion of the tender procedure for obtaining mining rights for exploration and mining rights for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. When extending mining rights, it should be pointed out that after 31. 12. In 2013, a large number of concessionaires who did not make full use of the mineral raw material stocks due to the construction crisis have passed the mining right, thereby reducing inflows from concessionary resources to state and municipal budgets in an appropriate amount. It would also be a questionable feasibility and recovery if the premises were abandoned prematurely, and therefore we consider the novel to be a good solution for the mining rights mentioned above to be extended to 31. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There was a large part of the debate on the bankruptcy of quarrying in relation to the non-renewal of mining law. At the initiative of the SLS, the amendment to Article 25 was adopted as an amendment to the Committee, which was not supported by the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, because we believe that this is a nomo-technically inappropriate solution, which is contrary to bankruptcy legislation. In the event of bankruptcy, the mining right must be transferred to a healthy company as soon as possible, since it can only be ensured that both natural raw materials are properly exploited and later remediation. The solution, as adopted by the Committee, leads to the exploitation of natural raw materials until bankruptcy is completed and the cost of recovery then falls on the burden of taxpayers. We do not agree with this in the Civil Gazette, so today we will support the amendment that regulates this properly. In the process of coordinating the law for second reading, we have taken into account both the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Board of Governors, even more than that, we have been guided by environmental concerns. Each intervention into the space must be as low as possible of nature and damage must be adequately remedied upon completion. However, the cost of recovery must be borne by those who have caused harm by their actions. As we advocate professional solutions that deal more appropriately with the problem raised, we will support the amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette along with the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u18	Hello! Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues, esteemed vice president, distinguished secretary of state with the team! We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act, which in the substantive part solves the key problems that have already been presented by other colleagues, the real problem is the extension of mining rights and the related potential for exploitation, job conservation and quality rehabilitation of the area where mining rights are exploited. We've received another law by emergency procedure. The explanation was that the urgent procedure — given that the proposed law had been suspended in the summer — was due to the late intervention of the law in the National Assembly. We agree, however, that this problem needs to be resolved for substantive reasons in this year and that it also eliminates the threatening danger that these rights will be forfeited, that they be at work and that quarrying will not be remedied. With regard to the emergency procedure, I have already said that we are all united, that it is unacceptable for such a law. At the same time, I can say that, despite the fact that everything took place this week, many have been included in the interviews and coordination of this law, including the Chamber of Fusion Managers. I can say calmly that in the Slovenian People's Party we welcome the approach taken by the Secretary of State, Mr Bojan Kumr, who has truly professionally and diligently integrated himself with the Legislative and Legal Service. And what was new in recent months when the opposition proposed amendments, in this case the Slovenian People's Party, was even one to improve the law. It was new that, in order to prepare the law as best as possible, virtually all the parliamentary groups that wanted to participate in it had been negotiated. We've had quite a bit of a hard time. Above all, it was crucial to identify ourselves correctly in cases of bankruptcy, where the dilemma on the one hand is to devalue the bankruptcy mass, on the other hand, to suspend an activity while also finding effective new owners in bankruptcy proceedings. The amendments, as has already been said, have been coordinated throughout the week, and this morning is still final. It is necessary, through individual amendments, to determine whether the objectives we have set ourselves are all being pursued in the course of the debate and in detail. In the Slovenian People's Party, as I have already said, we welcome such a way of working that we all contribute together to making the laws we adopt in the National Assembly as best as possible. After the debate on amendments and the whole law, we will most likely support the amendments and the law in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled and on the amendment we have received to the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the coalition and the amendment of the amendment to this article, also by the coalition groups of the Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? He does. Mr. Joža Velikonja has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. With the amendment to Article 5, we want to remove the dilemma about the use of the term "assessed need to establish the existence". By means of this amendment to paragraph 2 of Article 5, we shall give the Minister responsible for mining the possibility to decide on the opening of a tendering procedure, to issue this mining authorisation for exploration, provided that it is of interest to him to make economical use of the mineral raw material. It is only about eliminating the dilemma and using a different term for the same matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If he does not wish, I will conclude the debate at Article 5 and the amendment tabled and the amendment amended. We are moving on to the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to Article 24. Anybody want to talk? He does not want to, so I am closing the debate on the amendment tabled by Article 24. We are moving on to the 25th Article to which the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups has been tabled. Anybody want to talk? He does. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u22	In a detailed review of this amendment, which we agree with, we have noted that the third paragraph lacks the word "funds" which does not yet provide reserved "funds" for recovery. It is right to prepare a third reading correction.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Bogovic, this amendment will need to be amended by the end of the debate. Anyone else would like to discuss with the 25th Article and the amendment tabled by the coalition groups? We will now also find out in connection with this, as I said earlier, that the amendment is being amended. Maybe the Ministry's representatives? Mag. Bojan Kumer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much for the error found, of course we agree with this and I suggest that the editorial supplement be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. On the basis of this proposal, I assign 10, or I think eight minutes will be enough. So at 9:50 a.m., we resume our session.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u26	This is an amendment to Article 32, not Article 25.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u27	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I've set a break, but now we're going to see if I can just keep going if you agree to record this correction because of the magnetogram. On the part of Mr Franz Bogovic, a correction was meant for the amendment tabled in Article 32. Is that right? Yeah. Article 25 was concluded, if I understand correctly. There were no comments, but this comment was already in relation to the amendment tabled to Article 32. Anyone else would like to discuss alongside Mr Bogovic, who has made a procedural and also a proposal to amend the amendment? If he does not wish, I am adjourning the meeting until 9.50 so that this matter can also be coordinated.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u28	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We continue with item 2 of the agenda – the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. We have now been and are under Article 32 to which the amendment of the coalition has been tabled. Mr Franz Bogovic made a proposal in connection with the amendment tabled. Mr Bevk alone wishes to make an oral amendment. Here you go, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you for your word, Vice President. The House of Honor! As the Rules of Procedure allows, I will submit an oral amendment to amend the amendment to Article 32 of the Law tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. In the second indent of point 2 of paragraph 1, the word "funds" shall be inserted after the word "reserved". The text then goes on normally. We will also provide within a time limit a written amendment, or amendment, to be signed by the parliamentary groups of the coalition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We accept your proposal. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[He doesn't want to.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to Article 53 and the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr Bevk is here to discuss Article 53. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Very briefly. This article, or amendment, also allows the final closure of the liquidation process of the mercury mine Idrija. Since December 2009, the mine has been in liquidation, and this article allows us to remain in a position where part of the cave facilities remains in place, where water from the water from the un watered part of the mine will have to continue to be pumped and also to monitor after all the closures have been completed, in order to provide adequate care for Unesco's heritage, the part of which is not part of the mine, can be transferred from the company in liquidation to the Centre for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Just Bevk. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment tabled? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on Article 53 and the amendment tabled. We are moving on to the 59th Article to which the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups has been tabled. Who wants to discuss this amendment and this article? Mr. Jože the Great, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. With this amendment, we have taken stock of the proposal of the Chamber of Fusion Managers and give the possibility to those operators whose mining rights have already expired in the course of bankruptcy proceedings to be treated in the same way as the third paragraph as bankruptcy debtors who have already passed mining rights since the decisions of article 60 of the current law. This amendment has also raised certain concerns or doubts, since such a dictatorship can lead to disproportionateity, some inequality, or some retroactivity. That is why our Group of Members, as well as the Coalition, will consult before the decision is taken and make the right decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss the amendment tabled under Article 59? If he does not wish, I am concluding the debate on the amendment tabled under Article 59, and I am also concluding the debate on the amendments tabled. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on forests in the first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 20 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the bill, Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u35	Hello, thank you for saying so! 12. Seven. In 2013, so five months ago, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Food and Environment, we discussed the proposal for a new law on forests. There were 2 substantive changes: the first were carriers and other forest roads. At the same time, you have also imposed abnormally high penalties for offences in this area. As far as the roads are concerned, we agreed to a reduction in the percentage of the owners' consent, but we differed in the introduction of carriers and in the case of excessive penalties. In the case of carriers, you referred to a European regulation setting out traceability in order to prevent the placing on the market of timber and timber products from illegal logging. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have pointed out that we are concerned that the law is written and directed primarily at small farmers who manage their own forests and that little attention has been paid to the actual traceability and control of large companies and large concessionaires who are very involved in this activity. The amendment to the law tabled by Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party constitutes a corrective measure because the government coalition has recklessly gone into the implementation of the law without carrying out a simulation of the measures in practice. Five months ago, it was a populist move and a senseless economic one. Our marriage is real, and it also pursues a goal. It actually approaches the real process and tries to prevent illegal logging and uncontrolled logging across borders by not taking away or paying taxes or other taxes. Our marriage is a law that endures in practice. Most forest forest ranges in Slovenia from private forests are first placed on the market in the forest road, while transporting wood is not necessary and transporters are not needed, so they are used for transporting wood for their own use. It is interesting that, following the current legal solution for state forests, carriers are not required, but the case is left to the regulations governing the concession for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The fines for the offence are disproportionately high, as they often exceed the value of the cargo and are also disproportionately high compared to fines for legal persons for other offences under the Forest Act. Nor does any European country know the specific documents for the transport of forest wood assortments, but the cargo must only be accompanied by a document in accordance with transport legislation. The fundamental objective that we want to achieve through the amendment of the law is to ensure a rational control of the traceability of forest transport and thus to facilitate the control of the prevention of the placing on the market of illegal timber in connection with the implementation of the Regulation of the European Union. Instead of 2 documents, this is a transport undertaking and a specific document in accordance with the rules subject to the concession, only the minimum content of the transport or delivery document shall be determined by law. Thus, one document also fills the legal void in the case of carriers which did not cover forest forest ranges purchased on the truck road in the forest. The administrative burden is reduced for the debtors who would also use the transport and supply document as an accounting document. The work of the supervisory authorities is facilitated, our legal arrangements become more comparable to those of the administrative systems of European countries, the costs of printing and dispatching carriers are lost, and an exception is introduced for owners who are natural persons who can only transport wood for their own consumption on the basis of a timber cut decision. In the light of the amended provisions of the law, new offences are established for infringement of those provisions and the amount of the fine is amended to make it proportionate to the gravity of the offence and remains dissuasive at the same time. We would like to see the Ministry of Agriculture react faster in the future when it is found in practice that the legal solution is weak, difficult to use and creates an unnecessary additional burden for the debtors. Since the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, despite the Minister's promise until yesterday, has not in fact prepared amendments to the day before yesterday that would simplify the rules on the use of transport vehicles while at the same time making the system of control over the transport of timber effective and correcting the fines in order to be effective, proportionate and still dissuasive, we felt obliged to do so instead of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We are moving on to an introductory explanation of the opinion by the Ministry, so I give the floor here to the present magus. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u37	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Group of Members and Members of the First-signed Jozet Tank tabled in the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests, for which it states, inter alia, that it wishes to ensure rational control over the traceability of forest transport. The Government considers that the solutions to the regulation of individual areas in the proposal in question are shortcomings that need to be addressed more comprehensively in order to achieve the purpose for which the amendment of the law is proposed. For example, it seems problematic that there is no restriction on transport for domestic use. Trucks with 20 cubic metres and more forested wood ranges, for example, could also be used. Inadequacies and inconsistencies are also evident in the work relating to penalties, both in relation to individual offences and in the amount of penalties which are no longer dissuasive. The Government agrees that certain deficiencies in the current arrangements relating to the issuance of carriers and the monitoring of forest forest ranges should be addressed – and have also been detected in practice. It therefore adopted yesterday a proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests, prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, which, according to the Government, deals more fully with the above-mentioned issue; it removes administrative barriers more effectively and allows the supervisory authorities to monitor forest forest ranges and regulates the capture and sale of seized forest forest ranges. The government proposal also further regulates the key to the distribution of forest road maintenance funds collected so far with fees calculated on the basis of the cadastral revenue for forests. Since the law governing the taxation of immovable property abolishes the current way of maintenance of forest roads, it is necessary, in the law governing forests, to lay the groundwork for the distribution of these funds from the collection of forest land tax to individual municipalities, which does not include a proposal from a group of Members. The Government therefore does not support amendments to the law tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank for consideration and adoption, since it considers that the proposal for a law fails to address issues related to the improvement of the implementation of the traceability of transport with forest wood assortments and the related prevention of the placing of timber of legitimate origin on the market, which is linked to the implementation of the European acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The new Slovenia delegation, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u39	Dear Secretary of State, colleague and fellow Members! The proposal for amendments and the completion of the forest law, which we are considering, is good and will be supported by Members of New Slovenia. For it offers solutions for which we all take our stand through. Let me remind you that in our consideration of the government novel not so long ago we have warned the applicants of the invariability of the introduction of the transport document, i.e. the carrier, who is now required to monitor the transport of forest forest ranges. The law now in force also provides that the carrier must be kept for 5 years in order to allow for a later verification of the placing on the market of the European Union of lawfully cut forest forest ranges. Due to the new burdens of forest owners, especially farmers, who are subject to this regime under the additional bureaucratic procedure, the Christian Democrats then proposed, with the amendment, that the carrier be introduced in the first phase only for forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. With this we followed the audit report Management of the forests of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which for 2009 found that there was a risk that not all forest forest ranges obtained from forests managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia were recorded. Today, after a few months of implementing this bad law, it is clear that we were right. Farmers and other forest owners report that red tape has increased, that at the time of introduction also the Forestry Office did not have the appropriate instructions for issuing carriers and that there is no added value from carriers. Christian Democrats still argue that the problem is not with smaller private forest owners, up to 15 hectares. Irregularity, an undetected intervention occurs mainly in forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that farmers are threatened with higher cadastral income, the imposition of an unfair property tax, clearly led to the return of an honest Slovenian farmer as long as 60 years old, becoming a state enemy number 1. The current government consistently implements regulations that show a lack of confidence in the Slovenian countryside and impose a heavy burden on Slovenian agriculture. Colleagues from the Social Democratic Party, with a novelty, propose the abolition of a timber carrier dedicated to its own consumption – and this is a step in the right direction. However, we hope that in due course we will be able to remove all timber carriers from private-owned forests.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u41	Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! On 29 November this year, the SDS tabled a proposal for a novel of the Law on Forests. In the SDS, the basic objective of the novelty is to ensure rational control of the traceability of logging traffic and thus to prevent the placing on the market of illegal timber. The proposed legal solutions, according to SDS, allow for rational and effective control of traffic with forest forest ranges and related control over the legitimate origin of wood, allowing sustainable forest management, while reducing the administrative burden of the debtors and increasing the effectiveness of control. The main solution to the amendment is that transport of forest forest ranges is required for the instrument of transport and supply of forest forest ranges. The transport of forest wood assortments intended for own use from the forest of a natural person may be carried out on the basis of a decision for the felling of trees issued by the Slovenian Institute of Forests in the administrative procedure. They also propose to abolish the special arrangement of transport documents for forest forest ranges from the forests of the Republic of Slovenia. As stated in the explanation of the novel, the novel will have positive effects on the state budget and public finances, as there will be no more legal requirement for the Slovenian Forestry Office to issue carriers. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, the objectives outlined in the proposal for a law – by rational monitoring of traffic traceability with forest forest ranges, by preventing the placing of illegal timber on the market and by positive effects on the state budget – are agreed. Especially because the National Assembly had adopted before parliamentary holidays the Amendment of the Law on Forests, which was part of the struggle of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia against the grey economy. The novelty was given to heated debates and opposition by the opposition and the work of the interested public. It has already been stuck at the time of adoption, both in the introduction of the carrier and in the amount of the penalty for violators. Following the introduction of transport companies, the professional and interested public pointed out that carriers are an inappropriate instrument, since they do not provide traceability of wood, allow fraud and do not contribute to the upheaval of the grey economy, as the Minister had imagined. Transport was possible, through straw companies it was possible to transport timber even without them. Problems also arose from the impounding of wood, since the authorities did not know where with the timber seized, who was responsible for the sale, and why the money would be spent. Thus, changes in laws are not only necessary but even necessary. The SDS has drawn up its proposal on the basis of well-founded and reasonable objectives to introduce solutions that really follow these objectives. We note, however, that unfortunately they do not and do not follow the basic objective, namely the traceability of wood and adequate control, because the proposed solutions present difficulties in the issuance of the transport document and in all cases forest wood ranges concentrate with a view to further transport. Since it is not clear what are the safeguards against counterfeiting of the Charter, the proposal does not give the power to use personal data of the Slovenian Forest Office. When issuing a decision to grant a cut, it prevents the latter from controlling and tracing both documents and forest forest ranges because the proposal does not give the supervisory authorities the right to inspect the Slovenian Forest Institute and because the proposal does not regulate the management of the records by the forest owner, which significantly facilitates control and ensures transparency over the consumption and sale of forest forest ranges. In addition to deleting Article 17.c, it prevents supervisory authorities from controlling the transport of timber originating from forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which is unacceptable for us. The proposed law would prevent and limit the grey economy to a lesser extent due to inconsistencies in its problems. The results of this novel are already visible. The number of decisions taken to cut wood has increased markedly. The latter is almost identical in the last year to the number of decisions issued in the period 2010 to 2012. In addition, the effects of this law on the fight against the grey economy are visible. The competent authorities have also detected suspicions of money laundering and criminal services. On the basis of these reasons, we will not support the proposed law in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, which will be presented by Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u43	Dear Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. The Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed this law with a view to achieving an amendment to this law: a rational control of the traceability of transport with forest wood assortments, thereby preventing illegal timber from being placed on the market in conjunction with 2 European regulations. Let me say that five months ago, a law proposed by the Government was passed, also on the basis of the conclusion that in Slovenia there are about one million cubic cubic metres of wood, unregistered or illegal logging. Again, one claim like it was yesterday about the wine that doesn't hold. We have previously heard the explanation of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia to prevent the grey economy. Let me say that forest owners pay tax to the state through cadastral income and they own wood. And if they cut this wood for their own consumption, for their own use, for their own use, for their own use, it is not an illegal logging, or a country that is harmed by such cuts with taxes. It is true, however, that under the law, any owner must obtain a decision from the Institute of Forests and, on the basis of this decision, he can then cut wood. Even if it does not have this decision, there is no deprived country for any duties, but it is being cut unlawfully. But it's not about any grey economy. This law was also presented by the Minister on the Council of State, where the Minister promised to remove the carriers for his own use within 4 months. It's been five months, and we haven't gotten Members to the table of this marriage. Let me take a closer look at this marriage. The law advocates, and the reasons for the adoption of the law were in European regulations and in the fact that there is so much wood per year of undetected cutting. It has been said that this is a grey economy, that this wood is sold by merchants and that the country is deprived of certain duties. These are already very typical reasons for a wide range of laws, in which more is added than what European directives require in terms of transparency and traceability and I do not know what else. This only complicates the situation and creates some order that the neighbouring European countries do not have. But with us, we can't get past complicated things. In neighbouring countries they do not have special carriers, they have classic accompanying documents for the transport of timber, as they do for the transport of other cargo. With us we have also introduced carriers for our own consumption, and all forest owners must have a transporter under this timber transport law that is more than 10 centimeters thick. Any pole that is thicker than 10 centimeters, whether it is driven by a tractor, a truck, a car trailer or a multi-cultivator, or not with whom else, must have a transporter, otherwise it follows quite a high penalty. The penalties that this government has envisioned must be dissuasive, even if they are not proportionate to the offence, which our Constitution also insists should be. And carriers are not considered concessionaires because they have their own order, they have things arranged. However, for all those cutting in private forests, this carrier is being introduced, which is supposed to apply to the first buyer. The first customer is in 90% of the cases on a forest road, on a truck road, that is to say from a clearing to a truck is the case. There's nothing left of the truck. As it cannot, because if wood from several owners is brought onto the truck road, from several parcels, perhaps after several decisions and then goes on on trucks, of course these carriers cannot be valid. And we can no longer determine traceability on public roads on the basis of this law. This law also stipulates that all who cut for their own use or wood that is not on forest land — if a tree grows on agricultural land, this owner must also have a transporter to take it home and then for another five years to keep the transporters, which is a complete nonsense. The minister promised he'd fix it, but it hasn't been done yet. That is why we have tried in our parliamentary group to draw up a law that would impede this bureaucratic barrier or that. the additional administration carried out. In fact, this company is issued by the Institute of Forests, which is also a few at this time, and thus had costs. Instead of doing their work in the field, in the woods, because they are experts for this, they are not only fulfilling various decisions or documents in the office. Moreover, the government in the budget did not provide any means for these foresters to do their work on the ground. They are, therefore, without the means to carry out their basic work and have also been ordered by the Government to issue the carriers. That's what we do with this law. You've probably all seen in the media how farmers are disabled for cutting at the time when it's most suitable for cutting, because it's easy for foresters not to go into the field and cancel the cut. We also saw an example of why not, on television, the former director of the Institute for Forests said he simply had no money. So far, they have not been used to transport cars, but now they no longer have boots or sprays that mark trees for cutting. Of course, these are things that indicate that this government only listens to bureaucrats in its ministries, who probably have not even seen the forests, and they are making up legislation just to make them more important. But people get their lives warmed up and cause new and new costs. Of course, the best excuse is not to support the law drafted by the opposition by saying that it is not comprehensive, that it is not systematic, and that a new law is being prepared. The government has adopted a new law that will come to us in the procedure, but if we look at it – this law does not remove major errors, only some. It removes vehicles for its own consumption and allows the transport of individuals, farmers up to 6 cubic metres. That's a saying, up to six cubic metres doesn't need a carriage. But if he drives by a tractor trailer that can drive 10 cubic metres with a bigger tractor and if his forest is a few miles away, 10 or more, then he'll drive half the trailer because he'll have to go twice. Because that's what the law says. And up to 6 cubics can have a decision on its own, which is also regulated in this law, except that there is no limit to 6 cubic meters, which is a limit that someone has invented, just like the establishment of the municipality of 5,000 inhabitants, without any other conditions. I think someone's having a hard time arguing why six cubicles. By this law, which the government has now enacted, does not remove traceability or control from the forest road, but only changes it for its own consumption and, of course, what is now supposed to change the Real Estate Tax Act, which is in constitutional judgment. We will adopt one law that will divide the means of regulating forest roads on the basis of the Real Estate Tax Act and, if this law does not apply, we will amend this law again because it does not apply the other law. And we do work again, we steal time from God, and we steal money from people to make rules that are lifeless. Our law is comparable to those in Western countries: Austria, Germany, Italy. I think that you can support it, that we accept it, that we have no further work with that law adopted by the government and will come into procedure. When we adopted the law now in force, we drew attention to the mistakes of this law, to increased bureaucracy, to increased costs, but simply did not listen to the position, it accepted. As soon as the law came into effect, the government also found that marriage was not good. Not only because the minister promised the Council of State that he would arrange it, that the Council of State had not already voted veto because it was a condition, but the law was just adopted as it was. In the field, it has been shown that the Institute of Forests cannot carry out its function, that there is no money in the budget, that there are additional tasks. Now we're in a situation where we're dealing with and we're dealing with another law that's not going to fix things the way we should. You will reject this law, which is logical, but it is not wise. Instead of dealing with more important matters, we kill people in the field. Instead of establishing a system to be well managed in private forests, because we know that it is not well managed, so that experts at the Institute of Forests, whom we all recognise as experts, would be able to transfer their expertise to private owners, which we have 460,000 in Slovenia. There are very few who can manage forests; the professions that we have for this, the state pays it, make it impossible for it to do its work in a quality way for the benefit of all. The forests and timber we have are the only natural wealth we can overcome in Slovenia, and we are irresponsibly responding to this, with the country worth and with some owners. I therefore appeal to the members of the coalition to support this law, that we do not yet deal with this law, I do not know how many times in the future, because I tell you in advance that the law that the government has drawn up still does not solve most of the problems that have been detected in the current law. In our parliamentary group, we will support this law because it solves things comparable to neighbouring countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u45	Respectable present, lovely greetings! We will reject the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats. In July this year, we adopted amendments to the Forest Act, which were mainly due to the implementation of European legislation into the Slovenian legal order, in a way that sets out the obligations of economic operators that place wood and wood products on the market. The aim of the European Union Regulation is to prevent illegal logging and related trade. According to some data, about 25% of the undetected cuts were made in Slovenia; the placing on the market of illegally cut wood or products made from cut wood was prohibited in accordance with the European Union. The Regulation states that economic operators must ensure traceability and ensure the necessary due diligence in order to prevent the placing on the market of timber and timber products from illegal logging. Therefore, the July amendment introduced the so-called carrier. This is a document which the owner gives to the carrier, the carrier shall complete each load on the means of transport or on the transport of timber. With this document, the carrier shall prove the origin of the wood and then deliver it to the first buyer. The first customer will return the transporter to the owner of the forest. This ensures control of the legality of wood entering the market. The proposed law proposed by the SDS Group with the first-signed Jozet Tank simplifies the transport system, but the transport system is so fragile that fraud can occur again. The first point we have is that there is no restriction on transport for domestic use. In this way trucks with 24 cubic cubic metres of forest wood ranges could also be used for domestic use. This practically means that many trucks of wood will be transported in Slovenia, in the term "domestic use", which will not be for the own or domestic use of the owner of the forest. Another very important point is that the deletion of Article 17c has in fact prevented supervisory authorities from controlling the transport of timber originating from forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to these comments, we have other comments which we will mention in the discussion below. We will not support the bill in the Group of Social Democrats because the adoption of such a law would significantly reduce the prevention and limitation of the grey economy in the field of the forest economy. In addition, the proposed penalties are too low in the law and do not follow the principle that the penalty must be dissuasive. We will explain more about the proposed law in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Following the presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List, the word is mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! We supported the amendments to the forest law in good faith in the summer in the Civil Gazette to make order in this area. Unfortunately, some of the solutions at the time proved to be an obstacle in practice rather than a matter of law itself. In particular, the regulations under the law have further complicated the system, rather than going in the direction of simplification. It should be recognised that the current arrangements relating to the operation of carriers and the monitoring of traceability of forest wood ranges are necessary. The facts in practice show that this document cannot be followed by logging. The profession, poor foresters, including timber traders and forest owners have in recent years warned that carriers do not provide traceability of wood, they can easily be visited, as they are only needed by the first buyer. It is easy to abuse them through straw companies, but wood can also be transported without them. The amendment of the law has also had some positive effects, particularly for forest owners, who have carried out the cut more consistently on the basis of the decisions issued by the Slovenian Institute for Forests. In the September-November period, the number of decisions increased by almost 50% in 2013 compared to the last three years. However, the proposal for amendments to the forest law tabled by colleagues from the SDS does not go in the direction of improving the system, but rather means a step backwards – a step towards regulation that we have practically had and with which no one has been satisfied. The law is inappropriate and does not allow the fight against the grey economy, but leaves it free. The main solution offered by the law by colleagues from the SDS is that transport of forest forest ranges would be required by the transport and supply charter, which, of course, will not provide effective traceability in practice, since, as carriers have been copied so far, it is also possible for this solution to simply throw the documents in this chain away. We therefore expect the Minister to propose solutions that will enforce the traceability instrument, which will be simple and at the same time also effective. The amendment of the law must also urgently regulate the financing of the maintenance of forest roads, as tax legislation has abolished the existing fee for forest roads, which has been deliberately collected and used for this purpose. In the Republic of Slovenia we have as many as 12,000 367 kilometres of forest roads, which are the basis for good forest management. Nor does the proposal of the law authorize the use of personal data by the Slovenian Forest Offices in the issue of a decision to authorise the cutting, which prevents the control and traceability of both documents and forest forest ranges. Furthermore, the law does not give supervisory authorities the right to inspect the Forest Institute bases, which also prevents the control and traceability of both documents and forest forest ranges. All of this points to the fact that the proposal is incomplete. In the area of forestry, we need legislation to reflect the awareness that the forest is our strategic reserve and also a great competitive advantage. The SDS proposal does not go this way, so we will not support it in the Civil Gazette. However, we expect from the competent minister a proposal that is already announced in the government procedure and will be more complete, thoughtful and even simpler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think it is a bad half year from the adoption of the last novel of the Law on Forests, which introduced the so-called transporters, and we have a new bill on the table, proposed this time by opposition colleagues. The main solutions to this law are to require the transport of forest wood assortments and the supply of forest wood assortments. In particular, it is important that for the transport of forest wood assortments intended for their own consumption be carried out from their own forest for natural persons on the basis of a decision for the intervention of trees issued in the administrative procedure by the Institute of Forests. Let me first stress the assessment of our Slovenian People's Party's Group that the establishment of a better system of control over cutting in Slovenian forests, followed by the carrier, is necessary and necessary. We also stressed this when we adopted the amendment of the law. The main purpose of the introduction of the carrier was to ensure traceability of forest wood assortments and thus to operationalise the European regulation on the identification of operators who place wood and wood products on the market. Already in the process of adopting the previous amendment of the Law on Forests, we have expressed our support for any effort to improve the control of undetected logging in our forests and the illegal export of timber abroad, which was the main purpose of the novel. However, after careful consideration of the implications that the law could have for forest owners, farmers and also for the Institute of Forests – which were not prepared to enforce the law at all – we decided not to support the amendment of the law at that time. We have also been led to such a decision by the disproportionately high penalties provided for by the law. For example, the maximum prescribed penalty of EUR 50 000 for a legal person would also amount to more than 40 times the maximum possible value of wood that can be brought in by 1 means of transport. That's what we've been alerting you to. In particular, due to the latter, we also contributed signatures to assess the constitutionality of the law, which was unfortunately rejected by the Constitutional Court because of the unexplained legal interest of the initiators. In any case, our fears soon became correct after the introduction of the Law on Forests, as real confusion prevailed after the law was enforced on the ground. At first, the carriers were not even printed, and then they caused more than 200 000 euros of unforeseen costs to the Institute of Forests. In addition, the implementation of the law has proved in practice, as has been confirmed by foresters themselves, that the vast majority of forest owners of carriers do not need it at all, since the carrier is not required if the wood they saw gets to the truck where the buyer bought it. The carrier is needed by those owners who sell wood to the buyer at his warehouse, or those who transport wood from the forest to their warehouse. However, problems arise at auxiliary warehouses where wood is classified. The bill removes both carriers and a transport document issued on the basis of rules governing concessions for the exploitation of state forests and replaces them with a transport document. This reduces the administrative burden on the debtors, reduces the costs of the Forestry Institute and also eliminates the already mentioned legal void in the purchase of forest forest ranges purchased on the truck. There is also an exception for owners who are natural persons, in the vast majority of these are farmers who will not need a transport document to transport timber for their own consumption, but a decision to cut trees issued by the Institute of Forests will be sufficient. The bill also reduces fines for infringements to a more acceptable level. The fact is that recently, at the height of the fines provided for by individual laws, it has been greatly exaggerated and is not in proportion to the offence committed. We therefore fully agree with the proposed amendments in the Parliamentary Joint Slovenian People's Party, as they represent a more life-long regime for the control of forest forest transport, which, in our opinion, is still in line with the European regulation referred to in the previous amendment of this Act. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that the proposed changes are welcome, as the law currently in force has no longer clearly achieved its purpose. Moreover, he created an even bigger hole in the treasury of the Institute for Forests, which has for a long time been practically living and on top of everything is becoming a political overreaction field. As we say, Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed amendment to the Law on Forests and will be considered appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. A presentation of the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia presented by mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that in the DeSUS Group we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Forests. According to our assessment, this is a bill that does not solve the basic problem of illegal logging and transport of timber. Otherwise, we understand the intention of the proposer to reduce the amount of administration, but in our view, their idea is too incomplete. The proposal lacks restrictions on exceptions that do not need a document on transport and supply of forest wood assortments, which they suggest means that the forest owner can also bring up to 100 cubic metres of wood for his own use. The proposal also does not entail a restriction on the seizure of timber in cases where a policeman stops a vehicle during regular checks and finds that there is no documentation to transport timber. According to our assessment, it would make sense for such a driver to be punished and the wood not to be seized if it is not a cargo less than, for example, 10 cubic feet [10 cu m] of wood. The next reason why we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration is that the proposed text does not allow the traceability of carriers, nor does it ensure the traceability of the legality of wood from the moment the tree is planted for cutting to the end of the product. According to our assessment, this novelty proposal still allows for a gray economy and does not contribute at all to reducing the amount of undetected intervention, which is estimated to amount to a million cubic metres of wood. Nor does the proposal offer suitable penalties, which would be high enough at the same time to deter a crime and at the same time not cause financial distress for the offender. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the government proposal will bring much better and more resourceful solutions than we have before us today. Since certain solutions under this proposal, which we are considering, are quite similar to the proposal for a new Forest Law, which the government is about to adopt today, we are confident that the opposition will not have problems supporting the government proposal. Finally, let me reiterate that Members and Members of the DeSUS Group feel that the proposal for a Law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Forests is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Robert Hrovat has the floor as a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the parliamentary groups that have announced their support for our law and, at the same time, to some extent, to the disappointment of the coalition parliamentary groups that have given up their support. But they have renounced their support not because our marriage would be bad, but because the proponent of the Slovenian Democratic Party. That was to be understood from your explanations. But the fact is, we all know, you all know that the law that is currently in force is bad and inappropriate and that there are problems in practice. And that's the trouble we warned you about five months ago when you wanted that change of the Forest Law at all costs. It turned out that the change of that law five months ago had not been considered, has not been verified in practice. Practice broke the theory from the Offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. Those who were preparing the law fell on the line. Practice has shown that marriage is bad. In my opinion, you are needlessly complicating and complicating again with the preparation of the new novel. Once again, there is a document that is being reestablished, something that is likely to happen in practice — I don't know, maybe this time you checked — has proved to be inconceivable again. You, or the Ministry, were assuming that everyone dealing with the woods was a bunch of thugs. This stems from a bill we passed five months ago. The punishments are enormous. Some administrative matters are being established, which ultimately lead to the beginning of you being cheated by those who deal with forests. You enabled them to cheat in some way because it wasn't premeditated. The Slovenian people are caring and honest, even if we are talking about rural areas. Otherwise, they would have wasted everything, but they didn't. They run the farm carefully and keep the farmland alive. This must be based on the preparation of the amendment of the law, mainly in the field of agriculture, either in the field of forestry or in any other sphere. Farming and farm work are the work of ordinary, simple people who need to lay down simple rules without burdening them with various records and extremely high penalties. I have a feeling you want with the huge penalties you proposed five months ago to shift the burden from actual thieves to imaginary thieves. At that time, you were talking about millions of cubic meters of stolen wood, in your head, no one has that information, and you don't have it. With this, you were just scaring and in some way arguing your powerlessness, which you enforced five months ago with the law. And with these high penalties, you act like there's the most crime in the country. He's not here! Most of the crime is in banks, most of the crime is in cities, and here this government does nothing about it. And these disproportionately high penalties have led you to look for money where people work, working in the woods is working hard. Whoever's ever tried that knows what that means. And you've decided to punish those people the most, not someone – the forest owners. You're talking about taking a lot of wood out of Slovenian forests to black. The most burdened forest owners, the concessionaires you left alone, the concessionaires do not need any transport documents, no carrier, nothing, nothing. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to simplify matters. This bill is a pure simplification that some parties in the coalition always advocate – removing administrative obstacles, simplifications. This time you say you won't support the marriage, I don't know, I don't understand. I don't know the new law that the government is preparing, but from the information that I've received and that I'm going to continue to talk about, I don't think it's exactly a matter of simple simplification. We'll talk about this later. We wanted to simplify, at the same time ensuring rational control over the monitoring of traffic with forest wood assortments and thus facilitate control over the prevention of the placing of illegal timber on the market. From the field we received information about what is happening, from the field – not from the offices of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Environment. Imagine the transport of wood by truck, the inspector stops it, checks on the driver, the transporter, who owns the wood, I assume that's the procedure. And now I wonder why the carrier is guilty of having to have a carrier because he's just carrying, nothing else, he's not the owner of the wood. Okay. The inspector asks him, you have a transporter, he has one. Then I guess we should find out who bought this wood from. He bought it on the truck. We have already warned about this at the first reading of the law. He bought it on the road. So she doesn't need the vehicle you introduced five months ago. And we are simplifying the matter with this bill. In practice, the law proved to be pure nonsense. Five months ago, Minister Židan also said that they would prepare a bill at the Ministry or prepare a bill at the Ministry that would regulate these matters. So for four months, you know what happens when wood is bought off on a truck to cheat, you know, and you didn't do anything. Only now that we have tabled the amendment of the law have you started talking about how good it would be or how you would prepare the novel. We don't know her, we don't know her. The performance was carried out by the carrier to the owner, he made his own delivery, and then it is necessary to determine whether this timber is state or private. If it's a state timber, all he needs after the present law is a delivery. Is it okay if the solution is the way it is? If it is a private, then the owner of the forest, but the owner must have a transporter, they warn from the ground. And what do we do? We're here to unify things. Even those who cut through state forests — concessionaries — dedicated ones — should have a charter. We're not talking about carriers anymore, we're talking about the transport charter. Even after the proposal, as I have come to my attention, the amendments to the law should continue to talk about the fact that there will be no unification, that they will still be in state-owned forests, for concessionaires, of different rules that the carrier will not be required. You'll say, because the state forests have tiles up there, probably holding. Now a lot of private owners have a tile on the fridge. Nevertheless, I think that we should be united here and going in the direction that is comparable in other European countries. We must all be equal before the law, whether it is private property or state property. It doesn't matter. Now we wonder what happens if the owner orders vaccinated wood or transports vaccinated wood. I hope you'll answer my question. Does he need a transporter for vaccinated wood? Of course she needs it under this law. But the fact is, on the carrier, on the form, you probably saw it, because you were preparing it, it was only about the cold. Will the inspector count the pieces and deal with them in some cubatura? Nonsense was that marriage five months ago, and we're simplifying it. We're simplifying it. What do we want? There are no additional administrative costs for owners, none. We're shutting them down. They have a mandatory content in their delivery box. We go to equality before the law that everything is the same. And the last thing – this law is comparable to Europe, comparable to regulations in other countries. No specific timber transport documents shall be issued there. What we consider to be most important is what we propose – the transport document is not necessary at the time for forest wood assortments obtained from forests owned by natural persons who are loaded on a means of transport or transport, if they are intended for their own use, and forest wood assortments are transported by the owner of the forest, his spouse, the person with whom he lives outside the legal community, or his legal heir up to and including another succession. We're simplifying this. We're giving the country the oxygen it needs. Why should the owner have some carriers, why, if he cuts in his forest, of course he must have a link from the Institute and that is enough if he stops him on the road by an inspector, a policeman or a customs officer. He shows the legacy, the thing is over. Why would you put extra pressure on him with carriers? That's unnecessary. And a reduction in the sentence that I would like to discuss further. I would only like to refer to the parliamentary groups that have spoken about how change is needed, but I am afraid you will not support the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal, because it is not agreed that the grey economy is not convinced that it is a step backwards, that it is inconvenient, that there are no effective solutions. Do all solutions really have to be complicated to make them right for you? The solution must be simple, and for the people working in the forest in general, an easy solution. Those laws, those regulations and those regulations will also be taken into account by the people who do so, dealing with forest ranges. Believe me, they will. And don't say it's not appropriate. The fact is, it's simplified. We simplify and give oxygen to the countryside. And then there's more about punishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you, too. We continue with the debate, and the word is mag. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to all present! I'm not going to argue that the marriage change that we introduced the so-called carrier months ago was one of the better ideas of Minister Jew. However, it was a sincere attempt to make order in this area, to curb the illicit logging or to ensure control in the forest and forest chains. Since I am a Member, at many meetings of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, a number of extraordinary meetings of the Committee on Agriculture have been held on this subject. Reports from the Court of Auditors, how many timbers are shipped to Austria, how many illegal cuts are allowed and how we do not know how to manage wood effectively. Then someone's trying to do something and it's wrong again. As a coalition member, I expect my ministers to seek solutions and not make excuses in the direction of leaving the situation as it is, if many warn that something is wrong. If we have traceability in food from villas to forks, it is probably right that we also have in the forest chain the traceability of legality from tree to wood product, or from tree to wooden spoon. However, it is true and it must be acknowledged that this objective has not been achieved by the July government proposal, but unfortunately this objective cannot be achieved by the proposal you are proposing today, or by the amendment you have tabled in the SDS. If we really want to take a number of steps forward in this area, let us walk together. Since the government proposal, as far as it is known from the presentation in the media or what the Minister has presented to us so far, contains several completed solutions, including forest fees, and so on, as is necessary in the Forest Act, let us also make that government proposal, including any proposal by opposition colleagues on the Committee to be amended and move forward in this area. I'm also angry about whether it's really a science to make one single document from the beginning to the end of this chain. The profession points out that the fundamental problem is that the carrier was required only to the first buyer. I also expect experts or the Ministry to do so, but let's give a single document. The inspection is also in the report when it discusses the controls it has carried out during this period when carriers are in practice established, if they want to effectively supervise, it is necessary to have one document when the truck stops that it is possible to control until the beginning of this chain to make the matter as difficult as possible. If I make it very simple, I will say that the July 2013 novel has taken two steps further, but a little too far away. The proposal of colleagues from SDS means one step back, too much in the direction we already had, and no one was happy with it. I will not reject your proposal, my fellow Members, because I am a coalition member – and as some of you have said that this is logical – but mainly because it does not have a wise solution. I do not see in your proposal that order will be made in this area. But I will admit that in one way the Minister of the Jews convinced me; but what he promised did not prove to be good in practice. I'll admit it. I promise all forest owners that in the next solutions for which I will give my voice, I will be more cautious and I will expect representatives of the ministry and also from the minister to present solutions that will in practice really drink water. Above all, I would also like to ask that we are a little less populist and we do not say much from this carrier that they are now the most hit forest owners, but poor farmers and so on. The farmer has a decision on the cut, and these carriers are either intended or intended to have, and this will have to be done, to identify those speculators who traded with wood. By doing so, the forest owners, or farmer, have nothing to do with selling their timber. This is the goal, and in this area I agree that we must make order. But if we're just going to accuse each other, it's certainly not going to be the point. We need to listen more when it comes to committees, when to listen to smart solutions, regardless of where they come from or where they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you, too. As a proposaler, Mr Robert Hrovat has the word, and then, as a regular debater, he will have the word Franz Bogovic. Here you go, Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Since we are talking about our marriage being inappropriate, it is not consistent that a law that we do not yet know has more perfect solutions. And apparently, you don't know him yet, but I'm sure as a coalition MP, but that's what you said before. I really want to know what's bothering you about our marriage. Our law allows European comparable regulation regarding the traceability of wood, Europe is comparable! Nothing's going to go wrong here, there's not going to be any more cheating here than cheating now, certainly not. You also said we were going back with our bill. Where are we going back? We're not going back anywhere. Moving on, we are solving the situation caused by the entry into force of the law five months ago, which you supported by the coalition Members and Members. That's what we're talking about. Don't tell me our marriage is going the other way. It allows traceability, we introduce proportionate penalties. I really want to know what's worse than it is right now. I would like to see the law that, if it were, would be really so much better than our proposal that you would be able to support it with ease. Before that, I asked the government a question, the government representatives, the secretary of state, about the vaccinated wood, with the transports this moment, how is this resolved? How can inspectors control this? In what way? I was wondering if I could get some answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovich has the word, and then Mrs Iva Dimic is prepared. Regarding your question – the opinion was given by the Government in writing and the oral position was presented in the opening part. If there is time left after the discussion, the Government will also be able to give the floor to the Government if it so requests. Otherwise, she does not have the time announced and I cannot give her a word in front of the debate. Procedural. Mr. Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u59	If this is so that the government has not even announced the time to discuss the solution, so you have swung it with your hand, we will not open this law, we are agreed with the coalition to reject this law, even though it has the right solutions to go in the right direction. But no, because he is a proponent of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will reject him. This is incorrect, I do not remember when the government would not have announced a minute of time when any law proposed by the parliamentary groups was being examined. Not a minute to discuss where we could exchange views, where we could say what could be improved. That really saddens me, but I wasn't paying attention that the government hadn't announced the time. Thank you very much, but that's very bad that they didn't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovich has the floor, Mrs Iva Dimic is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u61	Nice greeting, distinguished secretary with co-workers from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Once again, we have the Forest Act dealing with an unfortunate carrier, if I may say so. The vehicle was introduced with the aim of ensuring the traceability of wood and preventing speculation. There is also talk of exports, first of all adapting to directives, European Community regulations and, secondly, regulating the situation in the Republic of Slovenia. I took part in the process for a while, including in my second role as Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, where my colleague Regonja and others explained these solutions. We all wondered together whether the carrier would achieve its goal, and how we could arrange it to make some real progress with this document. The more the document was produced, the more difficult it was to simulate and predict the effects in advance, or to determine that these objectives, which were set, could be settled with the carrier alone. At the end of the adoption of the law itself, it was also found by the Minister of the Jews that something was wrong. And he made that promise before the vote on the veto in the State Council that the law would be subject to change, which the Government had already done in one part at its meeting yesterday, as we have now seen from the media. We don't know, at least in the opposition, the contents of this law, so it's very difficult to talk about that law. However, I can say calmly that the solutions proposed by my colleagues from the SDS go in the right direction, and I believe that I should start with the penalties. I think that in this country we have recently been accepting enormously large penalties, disproportionate to the damage or what we want to punish. Even these experiences that we now have with the Constitutional Court in other regulations, taxes and the like, I think they must give us something to think about and we must be moderate and restrained in this part, not that we want to solve the whole problem only by having such penalties that someone, even out of ignorance, can fail. In the second part, when colleagues propose this solution for natural persons when their relatives drive wood. I really don't know where the key is. I do not believe there are any serious problems with such a solution, and I think we should listen to these cases well. As far as I am aware, it has been noted from the media that the proposal of the Minister and the Government, which was adopted, is supposed to be free of up to 6 cubic metres of wood. I must say that I have also spoken a great deal to the foresters since I am a certain forest owner, I have also been in these procedures, both since the decision was issued and since the carrier was still not present, and those who drive this should be punished, and also in the procedures themselves. Landlords who are on the ground point out that this document has no practical value, as has already been said, that it is a bureaucratic obstacle to doing something about it. I don't know who's in the background counting these carriers, who's counting them, who's controlling it, if anyone's doing it. Otherwise, it is a big problem that this vehicle is only for one movement and that there is simply no traceability from there. I'm afraid there won't be an intention for the legislator to hire 100 people to follow this wood. The customs will be out of control for once. And I think it is also a danger that we put any unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles into this system for both public sector employees and forest owners. I'm afraid in the part where we're talking about solving the problems in forestry, we're going down that road as if we were diagnosed with cancer and we're treating with aspirin. So much, in my opinion, does the carrier have a range in the context of market regulation, export prevention, better forest management. I think we have lost a little focus on what needs to be done now and when in the area of forestry and the forestry industry in Slovenia will be better. As far as I have managed this area, which is not my professional area, to get to know it at the time I dealt with it, I think we have a key problem that we no longer have wood processing plants in Slovenia to process, process, process, add value to it. And when we're talking flat-rate about this, wood goes into export, I'm just wondering where that wood would go if it wasn't for export. Where the owners of Slovenian forests, whether state or private, would sell wood if there were no exports, because simply the Slovenian woodworking industry did not adapt to the changed situation, such as the metal processing industry, which had a similar problem at the beginning of the 1990s when markets were lost. When the products became obsolete and were no longer competitive, the Kevinnars rerouted. There was simply no such twist in the woodworking industry. Another big problem that I think everyone should deal with more than the carrier is what will happen to the state forests after 2016 when concessions of concessionaires in Slovenian forests expire. Last year, when I played this role as Minister for Agriculture and the Environment in a responsible manner, we have already drawn up certain groups to deal with this. And I hope it's not a matter that comes to the National Assembly by emergency procedure. How to organise Slovenian forestry, including the one responsible for the development of forestry, and the one that manages state forests. We see that concessions that have had a 20-year period, which is slowly or quickly expired – bad or good 2 years before – have shown a whole range of problems. What was essentially done in the first place to ensure that those working in the woods had a continuation of their work, in the first years, that the foresters were employed in the GGs. If you go to look at the structure today, who manages who works in the state forests, we see that there are few of these people who are employed by GG and very many co-operators that we have been having major problems accounting for concessions all these years. And if we take a closer look at what those who have concessions have done in the years of conjuncture – anything but invest in the timber industry, little in forestry. We also have a very difficult task among these owners today to find out how to get a suitable concession from the state forests, how to turn this wood and the chain as much as possible to do something in new wood processing plants, so that we can have the goal of making this real goal not only a well-spoken, beautifully-heard goal of reprocessing more at home, if we know that those 6.7 million cubic metres, as we could cut it, but we know what the capacities of the domestic woodworking industry are. Therefore, at this time, it seems crucial to me how, in the next financial perspective, we will be able to put tourism in the forest chain, which we made last year as a document, into the strategic programmes of the Republic of Slovenia, just as we have put tourism in perspective 2007-2013, to put the possibilities of helping the woodworking industry together, because it will not just walk. And I think that the resources allocated to the development of the economy in the coming years in this area must also be allocated in this direction. I think that it is also important to be very frank in this part as regards the links between key actors in these processes, on the one hand the Ministry, the Forestry Directorate, on the other hand the Institute of Forests, then the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which manages state forests, as well as the profession which currently has, except that it can give quality suggestions and proposals, may have less impact. I think we really need to think about what's been going on in the last year or so. A year and a half. I must say that I myself, as Minister, have been under this pressure in the government, as it is necessary to reduce forest resources, we have reduced resources in one part last year. It can thus be part of the original sin of lack of resources for forestry in the Government, in which I myself led this ministry. By having had certain discussions at the time, arrangements were made to share part of these costs with forest workers and participation in decisions with forest owners. This has not happened in the procedures for the opposition of individual colleagues in the coalition. And this year's Forest Office has been up and, as far as I know these public institutions, it has one of the biggest holes in its budget. The fact that you didn't know how to agree with each other for three quarters of the year – the Ministry, the Institute of Forests – and you have in some way served your heads, I don't think it's an honor and in the best interests of this profession. Also, the fact that foresters were not able to enter Slovenian forests in the most beautiful days of December is not a matter of pride if you want to, nor now to the retired Director of the Institute for Forests, nor to you who are responsible at the Ministry for this matter. I do not think that this should happen and that we should sit together in this area and work for the good of forestry, for the good of the woodworking industry, but not for human resources overplay. If something is so wrong, then after a man’s conversation with everyone and also if it is necessary not to be suitable for this city. In this case, however, I think there was a delay, but there could have been only two – not enough funds or a hole in the budget of the Institute for Forests itself, which he resisted or tried to repair the director who had already been removed; or on the other hand what has now happened. Let us use this debate today to be among the solutions that I think are not weak-minded, but point to the real problem of this unfortunate carrier. Let us consider that we will not be hundreds of times more papal than the pope and do something for bureaucracy and artistic impressions, so that we all speak aloud about what we have done. But when you ask people who do, they laugh at us for bringing them a bunch of papers that they know are not even controlled or monitored. We will not achieve anything in the woodworking industry except by hiring professional people again by writing papers. I know what this marriage will be like. We will support it in the Slovenian People's Party because we assess that the bill is well-intentioned. I believe the coalition will reject him. However, I hope that the law that we are about to get into the processing process will be able to put as many things as possible into the procedure as possible that are positive, that we will really give foresters the opportunity to deal with forests, not with other things that do not produce results. Above all, once again, we call for the right time to open a debate on a comprehensive amendment to the Forest Act, in which these relations with state forests will need to be regulated, the role of state institutions. Let's be honest, I've experienced it myself and I've tried it, there's no proper and honest cooperation in this relationship. In these relations, if we are very clear and discovered, throughout these two decades of activity, a whole series of bonds have also been identified, which limit or can certainly be peacefully characterized as certain corrupt acts, because they are very strong. In these areas, forest owners have absolutely nothing to do with this. But we come into chains very quickly when concession holders and subcontractors and related external trades connect with each other. In these matters, it is necessary to establish, by regulating the system, the real points of problems in forestry, with the quality, good governance and responsible work of these people. Even if one of the foresters is doing more than the forest line itself, it may also be about how to connect forests. How to make forest owners organised to organise themselves, what they have done to develop wood processing, and thus solve problems. I'm afraid the carrier's trip to an empty space, from which we won't have much benefit, and on the other hand, as I have already said, it's a good tool to be able to talk in public about how we fight corruption, how we do order, and the effect, I'm afraid, like now-set carriers, is not. A thorough reflection is needed on the extent to which these issues are complicated and where to find the right medicines for problems in the forestry and forestry industries.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor and Mr Tomaž Lisec should be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. We do have a government coalition of taxes and penalties. In Novi Slovenije, we have warned all through that the Law on Forests is bad and reckless, we wanted to correct it. And as it now shows, we were most right in the New Slovenia Group because we wanted to regulate the timber market with the amendment that we put into the original law and also with responsibility in this area. We suggested that the carrier should first be introduced for all cuts from state forests, then it would be possible to see if the matter was well established, and later it could be transferred to private forests or to owners of private forests. Of course, like any amendment of the opposition, the coalition did not accept it either. Although we now see that it was the right thinking of our parliamentary group, because in view of everything that happened then, the carriers were not printed, that people could not get them at all, and the police and inspectors were already monitoring the exports of wood from the forests, in January, it turned out that we were going into things that we were not prepared for. I come from the economy alone, and I can tell you that this does not happen in the economy. This can only happen in public services, in public administration, in ministries and all that our people are watching, our citizens are monitoring it. The worst news was yesterday, which was a lot of responses, that even the printing of carriers should be paid by forest owners, if I may say so, maybe sometimes I will use the term farmers. I think it's another step into a deeper extreme. What's next? We'll be able to pay the bill at the tic-tac-tac-tac-tac-tac-tac, because we bought a little more, and we'll pay a little more for the paper. I don't think that's the right solution, and that all this burden on a farmer, the forest owners with these vehicles went out of control, if I may say. I expected at that first complication in the fall days that the carriers were not there, that everyone was asking what the carriers were. The saddest part is that even poor foresters didn't know what kind of vehicles they were going to be. As early as September, they did not have them physically in hand so that they could be flagged with wood. All this causes too much administration and works too little in the field. I think that foresters and all agricultural professionals – I have already pointed out to the Committee on Agriculture, including the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber – have warned that these people, including the forest workers, are too valuable to us and that we must not burden them with paperwork and that their knowledge is very important. This is how they deal with bureaucracy, entering data into the system, instead of working and helping forest owners to reforestate, clean forests. It's an unnecessary job. I'm afraid with all this stuff, including what's been going on in the last few days after the press, that foresters can't go to the field. At a time when it's dry outside, when the largest logging forests and cleaning are taking place, that they don't have for paint and for gasoline. I'm thinking that maybe it's just another step towards discrediting the forestry profession. Instead of realizing how important this article is in this chain, it is in such a way that they are not given sufficient financial resources to carry out their work, their mission — because it is a mission that they are doing for our future generations — to be discredited in this way. But the worst news is that once the director of the Forest Department is replaced, it's all of a sudden money. In three, four days, there's money again and back on the ground. Then accuse yourself that the job was reckless. I think we've lost our common sense, our orientation. I would like to say more about concessionaires and concessions. We have a number of state forests that have signed a long-term concession contract. And we all said something had to be done there and couldn't get the concessions up. Just these days, we were discussing the Mining Act, where I noticed that concessions had changed in the meantime. I don't know what can be changed in one marriage, in a certain segment can be changed in concessions, but in forests it can't be. I really don't get it. And before that, Mrs. Hotchevar spoke. When we had a hearing on the Forest Act in the first half of the year on the committee – but now it is not in, because it will be able to tell me again if it feels this need – I warned and presented our amendment, the answer was that we must all be equal before the law. I never felt that we were not the same before the law until this big hole in the banking sector appeared, because we saw how some were getting credit. Then I see from this that we are not all the same before the law. I'd touch the inspection services. I think that the heart of all this is also a bit of a lack of action by the competent authorities in the country. I have also said this on the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, and the report has shown how many inspections have been carried out. If I am not mistaken, these controls revolved around the number 35 and were mainly controlled by the number of mushrooms collected, the correct or incorrect pasture on high-mountain farms and above the basket. I expected a more detailed report on the deforestation in the state forests. That's why I also said because the woodsmen couldn't get on the ground because they didn't have money for transportation and for paint. All of us were warned that this was done again so that they could cut black in the state forests. I am interested in the next inspection report if they have even reviewed it at the time of this void and what will be the impact of sanctions on those who have infringed. These controls are insufficient, and there is little cooperation between the Institute for Forests and the Fund for Agricultural Lands. When the representative of the Institute of Forests noticed a black herring in the state forest, he informed the competent authorities that it was the responsibility of the Fund of Agricultural Lands that a black herring had taken place there. After two months, he had just been controlled in the field since the snow came down, and when it was no longer seen what was going on. More is needed, I am convinced that there is more to be invested in such controls, in the participation of services within the Ministry; but not in the control of that poor farmer who will take a trailer into the woods for wood, even though it is a little too late because there must be wood for the next smoking season at least one year earlier that we have dry. I would like to point out that the amendment of the law proposed by the SDS Group in the New Slovenia Group will be supported because this is one step to ease the red tape of both the workers in the Institute for Forests and the owners of forests or farmers. And once again, do we really have a coalition of taxes and penalties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Jana Jenko. Mr. Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u65	President, thank you for your word. Ministry representatives, colleagues, colleagues! Today we are talking about the Law on Forests, where the key issue is the issue of carriers and, in addition, the fines relating to these carriers. The purpose of us in the SDS as proponents is to save the non-life law, to which, together with colleagues from Nova Slovenije, we have also tried to prove with the assistance of the amendments already in the preparation and processing of the current law. But the coalition majority insisted stubbornly on its own, said it would be a success story, but yesterday's government statement that it had introduced a new law into the procedure shows that this government or this ministry in this area is melting. The sad fact is that, under the current law, it carries out the worst of all small or medium-sized Slovenian farmers. In the SDS, we do not have a problem with the need for traceability in this area, that order must be in this area, but that the price of pursuing this objective should not be paid by those average farmers and foresters who, for example, prepare heat for their family every year. In short, a good purpose; but apparently the government will only listen to this, as the President of the National Assembly has also indicated, that the government has not taken up five minutes to answer our questions, so I thank the government for all the unspoken answers already in this place. Our marriage is also Europeanly comparable. This is not based on what we have shown in the display of regulation in other countries, but also on what the European Directive requires. But this government was more papal than the pope and gave the carriers disproportionately, even more, even more disproportionate are the fines that touch it. Such government action in this area, as well as today's opinion of the Secretary of State, shows that in Slovenia we do not have a serious concept of what to do with the woodworking industry in Slovenia or how to manage Slovenian forests, whether owned by individuals or legal persons. In short, there is no concept, and so such laws come from the Peres of the ministries, which have already been reformed in six months because they themselves find that they have written a non-life and non-systemic law. Last week we had a very strong consultation in Posavje, where we were preparing for the European perspective 2014-2020. There is wood in Posavje and the industry is also very strongly represented in this connection. When we decided what to do and how to go on or what to do in the next six years, it was mostly heard among all the debaters, and what the country's obedience to our initiative would be. And it will be obvious that the country will be deaf for such good initiatives, although this ministry and this government could only look across the border to Austria and see what are good concepts for the resolution of the processing industry and effective forest management. With today's bill, forest owners using wood forest assortments for their own production or for their own treatment will be burdened with both penalties and red tape. But it is sad that it is this coalition, which is full of mouth, how it is necessary for a Slovenian citizen to be unloaded, in one way or another, by means of an easy button against such a law, which introduces such mechanisms. The witch hunt is under way, and the concessionaires have had the opportunity to do so before, and according to the new bill, they will be given the opportunity to do the same with that million cubic metres of wood that is supposed to be of illegal origin. The owner, who will be named Franci, who prepares chicken for his family, will be able to blink at home if he forgets the carrier at lunch and will be waited on the ground by inspectors and his wallet will be emptied. What is also punishable is the practice in the field, small people who have a clean living, daily processing of their forests, and large owners are released. Moreover, in the current law you introduced some strange provision, which we also discussed yesterday in the Wine Act, where you can subjectively punish yourself in the so-called "fast procedure". If an inspector likes a customs officer, he can get the least penalty if he doesn't like it, and he can get the highest penalty on the spot. A very questionable marriage with highly questionable solutions that we are trying to resolve today. We have already told you at the time of the adoption of the current law what stupid things are, what is 10 centimeters thick wood, what is with the cold, how is with the wood cut, how we know different tractor trailers, what are trees in the forest, what is outside it, but no concrete proposal and concrete solution has been established. Full of reckless measures and the main one, which is to relieve the small Slovenian farmer working with the forest, is here in front of us, but given that the representative of the Ministry said that they had prepared a new law, where it was supposed to allow the removal of wood from the forest up to 6 cubic metres for my own consumption, I am really interested, but obviously I will not get an answer today. Thank you very much to the government for not taking five minutes. Does this mean that, from Monday to Sunday, France can take out 6 cubic metres of wood once a day for its own consumption from the forest, whether this is in accordance with the reference, or whether this applies only at the annual level. In short, no answer, and I'm really wondering where these huge officials at the Ministry found six cubic feet of wood. Why not 5, why not 10, why not 20? Practice and life are completely different, just look at the case of a typical Slovenian family who owns its own apartment house. 20, 30 years ago, a low energy waste house was not built, and 10 cubic feet [10 cu m] of wood was too small for a family to smoke. I really want to know where you found the six-cubic-meter number. It is obvious that many of the proposals made by officials, but I must say that for nine years now I have been following this from another type or in the last two years of the first kind, I really wonder what officials in ministries, agriculture, environment and space are doing. Do they just work from the office to earn their wages, or do they just occasionally look at a practical example of how life works? Members, at least members of the Committee on Agriculture, we have the opportunity to visit once a year a meeting in Gornja Radgona, where experts can remind us of all the incomplete solutions in the legislation that officials with various sub-legislative acts can further abuse. Just yesterday, when I was preparing for the debate on this law, a colleague of mine, who has a very small area of the forest, asked me to ask officials in this ministry how many of those officials who talk about forests have ever had a motorcycle in hand to defend such smart solutions that they can accept. Smart in their concepts, not ours. I don't mean to be offensive to officials, but the president of the country said in one of the speeches yesterday that he himself wondered, despite having had the opportunity to arrange this a few years ago, what Slovenian officials or officials in the state labour institutions. He also said that one job, two of them sitting next to him, and the question is, what are they thinking if they're already doing something bad? However, it is a fact that is also reflected in the debate in today's law and in the debate of both state secretaries and representatives of coalition parties, that there is a policy to be followed, where work is the easiest for all operators, if Slovenian agriculture is caught up in some common ramparts or clusters, that Slovenian farms should be large, even though we all warn about Slovenia's nature by its nature. I even have a feeling that this is about surviving an ideological battle, where there are large farms, not all of them, welcome, and a small farmer needs to be pressured, financially or with various bureaucratic vats, and quieted up nicely. Let him work as long as he can, but if he does something wrong, he's the first to blame for everything that's going on in this country. My opinion is, unlike certain debaters, that Slovenian farmers are not a thief, but a good worker, like a good worker, every one who deserves his own salary, only that Slovenian farmers deserve their wages by working in vineyards and forests. With this law, traceability remains, which is very evident, but traceability will be easier for those with smaller forests. But all those who want to be more loyal to the principle of traceability will be easier, whether it's the Institute of Forests, whether it's the inspectors, whether it's the customs officers or the police, not to hunt this France that's making chicken for its family, but to hunt those that the Ministry's representatives have already said in the law that it's their purpose – this is to hunt down the great violators of Slovenian legislation. With regard to fines or penalties, we also introduce solutions that are realistic, which stop the fetish of this government, that the penalties must be so high that no one thinks of doing anything at all. However, this fetish is paid by all the small farmers who, like at home after lunch, forget the carrier, go into a forest where the inspector can quickly deepen them, and their work is free of charge because he has forgotten. Maybe there's a sentence about the Forest Department. I have been following the controversy in this area in recent days, and I must say that the Minister has made very good initial use of his political moment. He politically suspended the former director, thereby planting his misdemeanor or inaction, as more work and a smaller financial tentacles are no good for the boss. Instead of showing himself, the minister pointed out to the director of the Institute for Forests, which he did by himself pilatovski washing his hands and apparently increased his public ratings. The government's arguments are either broken or gone, and we won't hear them again, unfortunately. However, the fact that the bill you are preparing is proof that the law currently in force has been the result of some reckless and impractical action, where a number of professional questions have been left out that someone has probably chosen a populism voice. Practice has shown and will show even more, despite your promises to make order in this area, that our marriage is going in the right direction. What's more, she's a predecessor or something. A member of the Civil Code said that our proposal for a law was a step backwards. Yeah, if yours went the wrong way, it's right to take a step back and do something good. And this is what this law does, both in the field of traceability, in the field of punishment and also in the operation of all inspection services. Moreover, the law also has positive financial implications for the state budget, but this is unfortunately not a particular desire for this government and this coalition to settle it. The reason why this law should be supported at first reading is more than enough. I myself do not agree that the law cannot be regulated in the following procedure. Even now the law in force, when it came to the National Assembly, was full of holes, just read the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, but despite all the warnings you've always gone head-on through the wall, pushed your head into the sand and adopted the law, and now you're obviously correcting it. Now you have the opportunity to take the first step towards making more order in forest management, where the price will not be paid by the ordinary French or ordinary Slovenian farmer who also deals with the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! On the table we have a proposal for amendments to the Forest Act, which is to some extent normalize the situation and repair the damage caused by the Government's Forest Law, which we adopted at the beginning of the summer. The law, which was amended by the new law by the government itself yesterday, was the so-called temporary law. We can say this now, after the Government started explaining various laws – two in the field of culture – I have found out in the last week – consciously said that they are only transitional laws because it will prepare things more qualitatively in the future. This is one of the laws that has also served to discredit Parliament, because people who look from the outside to see that the government itself admits that after six months it brings a new law, they talk about what these Members are like when they accept non-life things. It is, however, an ideological project of the current coalition, where it is always a plan to discredit Members and parliament, to then protest before parliament, if we are Members of the Korat; not the bank where they stole billions. And this law was typical of this, but it was also intended for these dogmatic ideological prejudices that the left has always been to the farmer. And she had these very specific ways of criminalizing a farmer. These vehicles were designed to give the impression that farmers were scoundrels, cheaters. And at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, it comes to my mind literally what was happening in the previous system in relation to the farmer. By the way, I'm a farmer's son, and a lot of the woods this farm had. I remember the last year of 1963, when we didn't have motor saws when they were gone, I spent 14 days with my brother, who was then a farmer, who later became a constitutional judge, we tore and saw with an American, kneeling in the snow on a jute bag, and for that wood we virtually got nothing, nothing. The farmer was pressured by the feudal owner of the forest holdings, and the forest economies were extended by the time of the Udba, because there they were richly fed from the granite farmers. Because if someone wanted to buy the same spruce, it was four times the price of what the farmer got. And whenever the central committee at the back had a meeting, there was a point on the further socialist transformation of the village. I remember with what fear my father listened to, he said, "What did they decide, what would nationalize the farmer again?" Because it's always been hidden. And because of this, it is not acceptable for me that the minister – and the donkey can be a good person – comes from a party that has such ideological deposits in relation to the farmer, for he is necessarily forced to fall and succumb to these tendencies. And that's what happened in this marriage. This criminalization of a farmer – this is an extension of these prejudices. And now our law restores as much as possible to some normal situation and also gives everyone who is in this process — so to the foresters — a normal role. After independence, when the Law on Forests was adopted at the time, we said that things would go down on European comparable grounds. I remember what the left was like when, after the new Forest Act, the farmer became the owner of the forest again, because he used to be a feudal addict, so that farmers would do things naked, they would crash, sell everything, sell it. None of this has happened, there has been propaganda that farmers are making goggles and that they were not made by farmers, that they were concessionaries or others, and that the price of wood is going to go wildly up. It happened the other way around. The market has relaxed, the price of wood has fallen and has become available to users. And then the bureaucracy got stronger again. Sucking the blood of farmers is always the easiest. These leftist governments have also come to realize this, with taxes on property and various other taxes this year, if the farmer endures, he will suffer. For this reason, it is imperative that this law continue today. I must say, it is a little vile that the government has gone to adopt another law now that a law has been introduced that can be amended and adapted. It's literally mean. She acknowledged, however, that that law was a provocation, that it had no systemic solutions in it, and that it was an inactive law. And since they were dealing with that in the spring, apparently bureaucracy was able to afford a lot within the ministry, in November money was running out for logging. And now they've been sitting in offices for a month, and you know that bureaucracy is like the military -- if she doesn't have a job, she's got shit on her head. This is an eternal rule, and these nonsensees will be paid again by farmers and citizens. Instead of thinking about rationalization, positive solutions, we got the law we got. As I said, they have blocked the work in the woods, because if any farmer goes in this optimal weather for forestry work for cutting wood to crush some spruce, the criminal will be again, the one who violated it, instead of suing the country for damages. 'Cause that's what the state's got for them. And now the government, instead of solving those problems, is dealing with reforming its own law, which we are willing to correct, which we are always constructive in such situations. And there's also a constructive proposal on the table. When I listened to some of my fellow Members from the coalition, who, while they said they suspected that the government law was not good, that it would have harmful consequences, I wonder how your hands were bending now, that you were backing the government to dictate and regulate what you could say only – mea culpa. I appeal to the government and the coalition, get rid of these communist prejudices, that the farmer is a criminal, that he is a class enemy that needs to be suppressed. That's how it survived. When there is a further glimpse — a farmer can be exploited, tolerated — and we will continue to exploit it. If we did not work so strongly over the past 20 years – a left that also has a dominant influence on the media – to destroy all the values that were so fundamentally present in Slovenian man, we were able to make erosion and bring down, then no carriers are ever and never needed. Farmers didn't cheat and smuggle. In each other's village, the audience had someone who could sell everything, smuggled it and sold it to Croatia, and, at the service of the other farmers and collected the data. If we didn't work so hard on value erosion, we would never have invented these car stickers when there's some kind of bullshit like that. Someone else used to serve for the forms here. Now that many people have been sitting in offices for 1 month, I'm afraid millions of these forms have been recopyed, and that's an additional cost again. Now, of course, this page should be thrown away and so on. Directing the government and government Members – accept the proposal, arrange it in the course of the procedure and order the government to deal with real problems, but not fix its own misleading proposals, such as the Forest Act, twice a year. There are enough problems in agriculture for the Minister to deal with them and should be busy. Now that we have prepared the bill, let him tell his Members – support this, and we will forgive you, half the sin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u69	President, first of all, I protest, and I find that Mr Jerovšek did not speak at all for most of the time, what was being said. He opened up political issues, and I'm protesting if his mantra was in trouble in his history, that's his problem. That's not what this was about. We were talking about doing something with the carriers, changing the law. But everything he said, there was no speech at all. I'm also protesting the way employees at the Ministry are doing crap. It's a dictionary that doesn't belong here in some way. I also protest that the minister from the party where I am is, and that this is the party that is due to political, ideological and others – that is, this is the way it is. It's not right to argue like that. He talked about the media, about the Udba, the communists, about the communists, which in a way doesn't belong here, because we passed the law here. Then he talked about the stickers, what the stickers have right now as an example. Instead of talking about the law, what this law was supposed to fix, he spoke purely of everything else. That's why I'm protesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u70	Well?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u71	I'd like to suggest that you take his word when he talks about what doesn't belong on this agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you. I have been following this debate and I must admit that, as you said, it also had a political charge. Since we are in the general debate and it is possible to apply for a word – and on our part you are the next debater, Mr Meh – it is possible to hold this debate in the way that Parliament can actually do, by exchanging concrete answers, explained and so on. I would hardly estimate that I should interrupt the debate because the forests have really been with us for thousands of years. This is one period that can certainly not be avoided. However, as I have said, it is possible to exchange views and views in the debate. But if we were to unify ourselves on what would be good to do with our forests, there would be real great progress. Hopefully, we'll get to that sometime. I'm just answering about the procedural proposal that I should take the floor, I really didn't see it here. Mr. Jerovšek, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u73	President-in-Office, I ask or request that you give my colleague Meha a strong warning because of a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not just the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind if he's inside a party of liquidists, some revolutions or anything. That's what it's gonna be. It is only here that he pleads for this and threatens me to have a political debate when I am a Member and to plead for the restaurant of the totalitarian system, that Members should not talk about it. If some marriage came out of the wrong logic, and I can't point out it because I was a child and as a man, I put it through this terror over the farmers. So please tell him what's not to happen anymore. Threats to the democratic system are strictly undemocratic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you. I must also answer you that I do not see any basis for Mr Meh to warn you because he has made a procedural proposal to take your word away. I also told him that I didn't find any elements to take away your word. And I can't take your procedural proposal into account either. The word, as I said, could have been mag. Ivan Vogrin, but he's not in the hall right now. The next panellist is Mr Ivan Simčič. Let's get the mags ready. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much, President. Respectable members of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! 15. 7. You passed a law for four votes. Once again, we have acceded to the European Union Directive. Who are we hurting? There's been a lot of talk here. The new Article 17b refers to the need for exporters. The minister convinced the state councillors that in September he would fix this thing — from its origins to its place of residence. If he's not cheating on me, it's December 21st. It's the end of the fall. And someone proposed marriage because apparently we don't have a meeting on Saturday about this marriage. I come from a place that is the south of this country that lives off the forest. Because we're waiting for bureaucracy, officials, nature has made sure it's 11. This year's 11th storm swept down about 30,000 cubic metres of wood, a million 200 euros worth. Now it's necessary to have a cut, nature has taken care of. The documentation has to be resolved. Exporter get and arrange the forest. And the first proposal to the members of the ministry is that the strategy of this country should regulate and determine where we have larger amounts of forest in Slovenia and avoid natural disasters. Wood biomass heating. And we buy gas, oil, but we boast of the greatest natural wealth – the forest. And those dealing with it are quick to hop – today we have new law enforcement agencies, customs officers. This is my first proposal for the Ministry. Second question to the Ministry or law enforcement authorities: the result of what happened to the loss or removal of a million cubic pounds of wood, 27% of the share of this. Someone has to say something. Not just changing the law on the basis of someone. I'm proud to be from the countryside. He offered me the forest to survive. When the media was doing a commercial for me, they got working suits on the dryer in front of my house. Above a certain area of Ljubljana, however, the media came to the house and someone threatened with weapons. Education, etiquette and culture, rural areas, city. And if I go back to marriage, people in my place will be able to get some euros because they will clean up the forest because they are worthy of the masters of their property. They're taking this to the only company in my place that works, Lesonit Illyrian Bistrica. Who owns it? It's Italy next door. What banks don't have problems? The Bank of Cyprus, which is French, is in the hands of the Italians. Unfortunately, that's how we do things, and that's obviously how we're going to work with the forest. And if I conclude – allow the countryside to breathe, remind the minister that autumn is over and that these people need to be helped and relieved of bureaucracy. Those who know what it's like to be in the woods are one big mother, but a man relaxes, enjoys, doesn't need a therapist, doesn't need a psychologist, or a psychiatrist. He needs to relax physically. But with this law, the previous one, the correction is now proposed, is a fine opportunity to give a farmer the opportunity to survive with his own consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you. The word has magic. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u77	Good bye to all of you! Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Parliament's task is to adopt understandable laws with less administration and fair for all people. And that is exactly what the Proposal for a Novel of the Law on Forests was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. This novel introduces a charter on transport and supply of forest wood assortments that would replace the current 2 documents – the carrier and the supplier. It simplifies and allows for greater traceability of oz. complete traceability of wood from forest to consumer. This Charter should be further elaborated by the Minister responsible for the economy, agriculture and the environment, who may add something to all that this document must or should do. document on transport and delivery to be contained. Of course, there is a basic decision on cutting trees, there are all the parent information about the owner, the place, the time, the carrier to whom it is intended, the type of wood, the quantity and so on. This is all beautifully detailed here, and this must be with the one who carries the wood. Why must marriage be just for all? The law must apply to both private owners and concessionaires. Concessionaries are like sacred cows, we've already heard that today, and people in the countryside know how to work there. There's a million cubic pounds of wood missing, a black shard, and it's kind of passed on to private owners. But the question is, how do concessionaires work with forests, how do they control it, if it's not their business in this law? Second. Except that there is no need for this document or the documents, but only a decision to cut down the trees is necessary, should apply to the own consumption of forest owners. We know that there are more than half the small farmers who have enough forests to spend it on their own needs. But it's not just about your own needs. for wood, but also for all other needs on the farm that are needed throughout the year, or occasionally for the renovation of buildings and so on. I grew up on the farmers myself, and my father and I had a lot more to do with the trees, especially the dry ones that were for the trees. For the bigger ones, they already had motorcycles and it was mainly for these talks because there was winter activity on farms and quite a bit of money brought it, even though the price was not high. But the costs were covered, and farmers and owners could manage these forests, and they had this for bad times or for special purposes if they went into the forest and cut down there. They also set up a smaller sawmill with a neighbor, purely in their own hands for these domestic needs, for, say, pig stables require a new day each year. Whoever has pigs at home knows that they destroy those afternoons every year, and if a farmer prepares them at home himself, you're a mess. That's how it used to be, now there's less of it, but little farmers would somehow not need these carriers, those who need wood for their own consumption. As it turned out, these carriers had a bad run-in, only a burden, but they did not bring about that goal — greater control over the traffic in timber. The instrument of transport and supply of forest ranges will be traceability from forest to transport, to those who will use or process wood. What's the point? The point is that the forest owner must have kept all these papers for 5 years. As I said, the basis is a cut-off decision, and there's also a written amount of cutting, a type of wood. The transport and supply documents must be consistent with all these data, which can be verified at any time within 5 years and this is a very simplistic matter. And as I mentioned, concessionaires who cut in state forests should also have the same documents to be monitored, both from the forest, on the road and anywhere. That's where the big cubits go, and, as I mentioned, the controllers should also be controlled. Unfortunately, the practice showed, but also television broadcasts were very good back then from Kentrupert, Dolenjska, what was going on in this business. The forest is the largest wealth of Slovenia and we do not yet know how to work fair or economically. And nothing happened, as my friend Simčič said, a million cubits black-cut, nothing went forward. In this area, such as our greatest wealth, there should be more order, more discipline, more honesty; but that is what this charter, as proposed by our party in the amendment to the law, transport and supply of forest ranges, brings. It is also comparable in other neighbouring countries where they have plenty of wood, Austria, Germany and Italy. They have a similar charter from which all the information concerning wood must be clear: where it is, where it is directed, who owns it, and so on. Of course, this does not apply, or would not apply, to imported wood, where another document or consignment somehow specifies that this is not necessary. As I have already mentioned, forest owners tend to be much more economical and cut down those timbers where there is a greater need or need. designed for wood, poorer wood, while processing better wood. Those who have more wood, including private owners, must have these transport and supply documents if this is the case. As we know that our proposal for a law will not be confirmed, we propose to the Minister to include all the good qualities of our proposal, which will simplify the whole matter, to do more justly for all stakeholders, both for private owners and for concessionaires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you, too. Mr Borut Ambrožič could have received the word, he is not currently in the Chamber, so Mr Jože Tanko is the next debater. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! What we are doing now in dealing with this law is in some ways unacceptable, at least as far as the part concerning the Government is concerned. Not only did the Minister of the Jews promise to propose a new law in September, where he would eliminate all the anomalies, and he did not do so. Even now that we have proposed a new law, the government has simply allowed itself to not even announce the time to answer to the debaters. It's kind of unacceptable what's going on in the National Assembly. We are having a general debate on the appropriateness of the law and three government representatives are sitting here. Four and a half hours and we had more announcements of time. They allowed themselves to sit here and not discuss it. President, I'd like to warn the government that instead of here, they can watch this point on TV on TV3. A full magnetogram will be available 15 minutes after the end of this session and all reminders can also be written in the workplace. Such an approach, when the National Assembly is ignored, and three representatives, who are not even poorly paid, sit here and do not, cannot, must not debate, is completely inappropriate. The second thing to be pointed out in some way is that we have problems in this country as regards the relationship of a certain part or part. a specific policy profile towards rural areas. The Forest Act is just one of those laws that will not contribute to the conservation of rural settlements that will not help improve the self-sustainment of the Republic of Slovenia through food and so on. It is only a law that improves the working conditions and living conditions of those who have agricultural land with forests. I would like to remind you that in the past we have already adopted some laws that have significantly worsened the conditions of living in the countryside. You have abolished state pensions for farmers, with the Construction Act you have abolished or worsened the conditions for the construction of rural buildings, you have substantially limited spatial planning, you have made self-help worse or so little work. With this law that we have before us, we are trying to repair the worst deviations you have ever done in the field of forestry. It is very problematic that the country is trying in some way to establish absolute control over governance in private forests. At the same time, he gives up control of his own property. The State has granted concessions for the management of state forests and does not prescribe the same criteria, the same criteria for control over own property management as for private property. Does that seem normal to you? Different documents and other approaches apply. Here you treat farmers as one of the worst criminals in this country. The penalties prescribed by the Forest Act or the Wine Act, if I go back to what we discussed yesterday, are disproportionate, inappropriate. No bank official shall be subject to such strict criteria as high penalties and to anyone who processes his own property, his own land, whether forest or agricultural, whether it be livestock or vineyard. Can the Ministry of Agriculture prepare a review of the proportionality of penalties, for example, for agricultural work and for some other part? If the Ministry and the Minister were to manage this, they would do so and also prescribe proportionate penalties. Here there are some rich offences that happen, such as beekeeping, which will occur in the work of own property in the forest, which will occur in the I don't know what else in the countryside, are subject to enormous penalties, several times greater than the value of what happened when a mistake or failure occurred. A few times, ten times, a hundred times in some cases! And I'm just asking, is that why the government gave up the debate on this law? Is that why the Minister and Government in general are absent from these issues? There are no ministers in the debate, not on the committee, not on the meetings, only when there is some interpretation, the government meets in the National Assembly. And that's the problem we're facing right now. And the fact that you're referring to something that isn't, it's a kind of paradox and a strange defense of something that we've suggested. I recall just a little while ago the mandate of the Pahor government when we proposed to amend the Agricultural Lands Act. At that time, we proposed a solution, which, although established, is a two-thirds consensus of agricultural land owners for agricultural operations. It took a year for this law, which we had tabled several times, to block and then the government came with an identical solution. We lost a year back then. In this case, or in the case of other agricultural products, it is likely to be similar, very similar. If you then adopted a comprehensive Law on Forests, fellow members of the National Assembly of the Coalition, after a year, then why does the government come back with a complete correction after a few months? All those who voted so comprehensively to support the government proposal at that time are now fully opposed to our proposal and you will once again support a comprehensive government proposal that will be awaited in the coming months. How do you understand that? How to understand this differently than provocation and but prioritise negative decisions against the proposals proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Such decisions, for such declarations, require a special margin. But it should also be noted that every day that you take such a priority decisions against the proposals proposed by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, there are also certain costs and problems for those concerned. Why is collective support needed for poor solutions? The Forest Act you have adopted in the summer is not the only bad solution in the field of agriculture. Yesterday's Wine Act will also be the next step in making a bad decision. If this is how you want to justify traceability and foreign practice cases, it would probably be good if you took this picture from the forest to the final product in the forest and forest chain through some successful country. For example, Austria is a successful country in this case. Why do we not translate these comprehensive schemes, pictures and paths into Slovenian legislation or legal order? Why we put the Slovenian forest owner in a worse position than the Austrians of Austria. Why the penalty for the same act is three times, four times, five times higher than in Austria, and who can explain the rationale behind these reasons. In the debates, colleagues, you operate with data that is not available. Someone threw a million - to - a - million - cubic million - black section without having a single document for it, 1 was just an expert. How can you operate on this data like that? This is an abuse of a parliamentary speaker because she is consciously operating on bad, incorrect data and is purposely demolishing a steel Slovenian farmer. The aim and purpose of creating a basis for the continuation of the revolution by other means in this area. This country is history. Even after the war, she took a number of bad measures if we went to look at the forerunner. The so-called earth's maximum is one of such stupidities that have been accepted and spoiled by the fists. What have we done about it — have we improved our self - care or have we torn it down? The basis for doing business in agriculture for young farmers is the threshold of the economic minimum, so that someone can even live decently and survive with what they have, not the land maximum. And a number of such goats have been adopted in this country. Unfortunately, all that you are proposing now, Minister Židan is obviously very frivolous, is merely to continue the same problems and mistakes of the past with others, in other ways and in other areas. Now, you have come to realize that the penalties must be extremely high, for 1 cubic of incorrectly recorded or loaded wood, 3 000, 5,000, 7 000 euros; the same cubic is worth 20 or 30 euros, depending on what the range is. If I were the best wood, the secretary of state, that's 200 euros, the venison log, if we're talking about spruce, tree or beech. What is the purpose of such an enormous penalty, why such a great punishment is prescribed and only half the trailer is allowed to be transported for its own consumption; if there is more, there must be another document. Where you will provide an economy in agriculture and management of your own forest. That's sabotage you're suggesting. All the solutions you are proposing in these agricultural solutions are sabotage. Targeted destruction of the rural economy. For agricultural production, for wine production, anywhere else. Instead of taking advantage of your economic advantages and potentials, you set up obstacles, raise penalties and suspend those that could be active producers on agricultural land. It's a suspension. How will we set up a forest-forest chain if at every step you make a blockade and an enormous punishment. Whether that is what the Austrians are doing, such as in the field of agriculture or other agricultural processing – it is highly doubtful. Certainly such abnormal criteria and abnormal laws shall not be prescribed as they are produced in that country and in mandates where agriculture is managed by those who are hostile to agriculture. Here we can talk about the hostile approach to agriculture [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u80	Mr Tanko, here I must remind you that you are using a completely inappropriate term, we are in the general debate. However, if you are expressing animosity for the work of the Minister, then I expect a real apology on your part, because the terms you use do not belong either in the Chamber or in this framework of action carried out by the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u81	Dear President, I propose that we stop this meeting, set time for the government to discuss and discuss the solutions that this law brings. The government has allowed itself not to announce the time, unable to respond in a reasoned manner. I think it's unworthy for the president of the National Assembly to defend her. The government has a president, has ministers, has time to announce, and has not used this institute. And allow me, I can say in the general debate my personal position. I cannot speak to Mr Jewn's position, nor to your Group of Members, nor to the Government's position; but I can say mine. And my position on this will not change regardless of this intervention. The measures and solutions proposed by the Government in the field of agricultural regulation – whether it is forestry or other agricultural production – are directed at the Slovenian countryside, directed at the farmer, directed at the agricultural economy, making it impossible to work successfully and efficiently. And if that is true – I hope that the representatives of the Government can say something – then this is an hostility against the Slovenian countryside. Hateful behavior, I repeat. And I would expect the government to come before the National Assembly with solutions that mean improvement or even exploitation of the potentials offered by the Slovenian country; it comes with inverse measures. And if the government within the institutions it has – the directorates, the chambers, the advisory services, the department it covers – is unable to provoke some good solutions, at least to copy those good practices that are only through Karavanka, but from the beginning to the end. None of the measures proposed by the Government in the Forest Act can be considered comprehensive. What is also available on the website in this proposed amendment to the Forest Act cannot be considered comprehensive. It is not possible to count because it solves partial problems, and some, if you study this carefully, probably worse. And I suggest, Your Honor, if you want to do anything in this area, that you go in the direction of good practices; not in the direction of terror against the countryside. What's going on is rural terror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr Tanko, let me explain to you once again that the government will be able to get a word in the rest of the time when all of you who have been reported to the floor will take this opportunity. If there is time left, the possibility of applying and the government has already applied, so it is up to us whether we spend the whole time or not. If we don't, the government will be able to give certain answers or answers. At least a large part of the answers, I hope. Dr Ljubica Jelusič has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president, a nice greeting to everyone! When we adopted amendments to the Forest Act last July, we discussed in great detail the paths and steps of Slovenian wood, problems in the forest and wood industry. Much of the discussion from that time can be heard today. I suppose we will speak very similarly when the government comes in the future with its additions to this law to Parliament. This simply indicates that this is the area of social activity in Slovenia, about which we all feel we know something and we are all trying to find solutions for better regulation of this area. We all have some memories of forests or the past of this problem. To many of the memories that have been mentioned here today, I can add mine and say that some 40 years ago in the former country, even in winter in Crassus, we prepared wood to pay taxes. This story, though, is more about one other story, about taxes in our country, not just about forests. But the fact is that each of us can say something about the problem of wood and forests, and everyone can probably also talk about solutions based on their memories. The question of solutions is also linked to the question of how much we want red tape or governance in this area. Some of you advocate that the management of forest wealth be as low as possible. The European Union is also clearly on the road to more detailed forest management and wood management. So in July this year, we also had to amend our legislation or our Law on Forests and introduce some documents, which in practice sometimes turn out not to be complete enough or detailed enough or even comprehensive enough, as some say. We have laws and our country is a typical case that we have laws to change them. Laws regulate living matter, and it is also right that when we find that an area is not well regulated, we also change it. It is therefore also good to have proposals like those before us today in the debate, this is the Law on the Amendments to the Forest Law proposed by the SDS. At the same time, I must say that when you take sides with the ministry – and the ministry usually has a certain view of regulating certain areas, and this view tries to be consistent – it is always difficult in the image that you have of how you will manage an area, to include individual initiatives that I believe are well-intentioned by sent groups. However, at a certain point, they did not fully address those problems for which the Ministry, in this case the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, thinks they need to be addressed. That is why I, too, am on the side of those who believe that we should wait for the proposal that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is preparing to amend and supplement the Law on Forests, but it is only right that this amendment also takes into account the good intentions of today's proposer. As we often face the issue of punishment, punishment under different laws, yesterday under the Law on Wine, today in the problems of the Law on Forests, the question arises whether offenders should be punished at the outset with very high penalties, whether they should be punished with lower penalties, and then with months, the years of these penalties should be increased when they see the types of violations in people who have to live and work with such a law. What is this concept of punishment? What's the approach on this? Around this, different governments are likely to have different opinions, and they are also trying to do so. I think we're farmers more or less in the vast majority of honest people. Therefore, we are not disturbed by the great punishments because we are not violators, because we are basically not such people as to want to continue breaking the laws. It is true, however, that there are many who, among us and those who speculate on our products, want to profit from either the farmers of naivety or the wealth that farmers still have or have in their possession. So I think it's only right for these speculators that the initial sentences are high enough. My position on today's debate and also the role of the government is linked to the expectation that the President of the National Assembly also spoke about. Otherwise, a word will be given to the government later, but the government has already given us its opinion in writing, and we must not forget that. We have its position, which was adopted on 17 December, which means that equipment can also take place in this position, even though we are waiting hours for the government representatives to come forward for discussion. And I think today's relationship with the government is no provocation, not sabotage. The Ministry of Agriculture and at least the Minister of Agriculture certainly do not have an enemy attitude towards agriculture, but they want to regulate in a consistent, comprehensive way all the areas they deal with. I therefore propose that we accept in good faith the solutions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but wait for the law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, and that we also take into account the good ideas that have been envisaged here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you, too. Replica, Joseph Jerovšek. Were you misunderstood? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. With respect to my colleague Jelusicheva, I know that she spoke frankly and has also been identified as a farmer, at least for the soul. But she said, "The farmers aren't violators, we're not disturbed by great punishments." I agree with this and such logic would be correct if this draconian punishment were not written for the first time and only in this law, where the basic purpose, as I said in my statement, is to criminalise a Slovenian farmer, that he is a thief, that he is a speculator. This wasn't meant to be against speculators. We hear that in six months, they were able to continue to do things their own way, speculate, and serve. And reselling. This was meant as a political, class action against the farmer. And that's the reminiscence of the past. I don't know how the minister succumbed to this, but he succumbed, apparently succumbed. And the fact that a farmer is criminalized as the most fraudulent member of the country is totally unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr Jerovšek, although I think this replica was more a repetition of your thinking than a proof that someone misunderstood you, but fine. The next debater is Mr Ljubo Žnidar, and Mr Mirko Brulc is preparing. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u87	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! If I continue with the President's word on the time of the government's party to this point, it is very clear to me and to everyone that the government's strategy is that facts supported by concrete examples of practice, with concrete facts, are very difficult to answer. The Minister of Agriculture is very well aware of this and today was a dedicated non-indication of the time for the government's side. Strictly for one reason, it is very difficult to give answers on such solid grounds. And from that point of view, I understand. But if this is the right approach, I don't understand you. And what was said, if there is any time left for Members of Parliament, perhaps we will respond. Let's just drop that coincidence. I would say that laws in this House are not passed by chance or "if there is any time left". I do not think that this has so far been the parliamentary practice of enacting laws in this room. Maybe it's a practice now under this government. And practice in the application of the adopted law, which you adopted 5 months ago, has shown that some academic, impractically written law in practice is useless or extremely difficult to use and inappropriate. This has now proved to be true in practice in this law. The Minister made a clear promise that within 4 months he would draft a new law that would bring corrections to such an extent that the law would be applicable in practice, acceptable or that it would be as it was supposed to be; not only on paper and in practice cause non-use. As a result, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we decided to draw up a proposal which, if not fully, at least in key segments, would improve the law and thus improve the business, the management of timber; of course, in such a way that the management and trade of timber would be transparent, correct, fair to all owners. Not in this way, as it now produces an existing law to protect large concessionaires, but very harshly interferes with small forest owners in a small Slovenian farmer. This puts wood business into an uncompetitive fight on the increasingly difficult domestic and European market. Continued adoption of such legislation puts Slovenian wood on the non-competitive side of trade. In short, if we look at the punishment itself. I agree that the law is not made because all of us are offenders, and that is why astronomically high penalties must be imposed. I myself advocate that the punishments for all are equal and just. With the existing legislation, however, it is nonsense to hunt down those small offenders, a small Slovenian farmer who will transport those few cubic pounds of wood. To avoid this, he will load that limited amount of wood three times on the trailer — that is nonsense. In large concessionaires, where the possibilities of various speculations are much greater and the quantities are completely incomparable to a small farmer or small forest owner, the issue of equality is indeed raised both in terms of penalties and irregularities that large concessionaires can carry out, as is a farmer who will have a certain wood for his own use. Therefore, our proposal simplifies a certain part of the documentation to 1 document coming from 2 documents, as it facilitates the transport of timber for a small farmer, not to subject himself to all the bureaucratic documents that he is supposed to need under this law. Otherwise, if we look at it in practice, I would say that very few farmers carry wood. Mainly, if I estimate over the thumb, I'm sure 90% of the wood is sold in the forest or on the forest road. That's where the wood is sold in practice. A very small share is sold in a way to be driven out and then sold. In short, it is necessary to look at how these things are running in practice and to see the law follow all of this. Here we need to look at the basic guide; we need to act in the direction of a good master. And if the law doesn't follow this river, the principle of a good master, then it's a bad marriage. Your adopted marriage is a bad marriage because these principles of a good master do not follow. I, too, am not burdened by your constant practice, which has been going on for the past few months, that the good proposal proposed by the opposition is of course not accepted, and then in a month or two comes the same proposal from the coalition side, and then this proposal, amendment, amendment or supplementation, is everything in the best order. Personally, I don't have a problem with that. Why don't I have them? Because it's just a little bit of a long way to go, a little bit more not to say, the publicist path that came only from the coalition side, that it didn't happen on our side, and I agree with that. I agree that we have only achieved that the law has improved and that it allows better use in practice and that it also does less economic damage to small business operators, owners, traders or processors of the wood industry. And that's the purpose. Laws must be good and useful. I suggest that our law be upheld. If he doesn't support himself, otherwise on the long run, you're now making up a new law from these proposals, that's why. I'd say he'd be good and useful for all the ones I've mentioned before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Žnidar. It's Mr. Mirko Brulc's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. The SDS has proposed a Law amending the Forest Act in order to rationalise traffic control with forest forest ranges. Everything's fine and fine. Yesterday, the government was considering a law being tabled by the Ministry. That it wasn't yesterday because today is this session and so on. We discussed this law in the coalition as early as 1 month ago and tried to adapt it as much as possible to make it useful to reduce the bureaucratic path as much as possible. And when he's in the National Assembly, on committees and elsewhere, we'll try to bring this law, which the Ministry has prepared, to life together. The law has also been drafted by the Ministry because you know we have a new real estate tax law. In order not to draw this now, forest routes will also have to be regulated from these resources and so on, and this must be brought into this law. Indeed, this law, which we now have, has already been implemented in practice, and we find that many things need to be corrected. What is wrong with this law that we are talking about today? Let me mention transport for domestic consumption. According to the proposal of this law, we can cut up to 24 cubic meters, load it on a truck, and say, it's for domestic consumption. That's not how it works. Why are we talking about six cubits that would be appropriate? Why not seven, why not five? If you said eight cubicles, you'd say -- why not nine and so on. That's always a question. I think six cubic metres is the amount a farmer can charge on a decent tractor trailer and drive home. And it can drive more than once, not once a day. But that's not what he's going to be supporting someone who's buying wood. Why, for example, does this law not allow the Institute of Forests to reach the tax number of the relevant farmer? The tax number is that identification, then the chain is known how the matter runs. Furthermore, the forest inspectors are not allowed to view the traceability of forest documents. This is a mistake of this law. Furthermore, the Forest Act requires the Slovenian Institute of Forests to write to the owner, in a decision issued, data on the tree species and the quantity of wood of this tree species, that must be. There's a difference if he's driving first-class cold or some spruce sushi. Next, the punishment. We face the problem of punishment all day long, wine yesterday, the forest today. I tell you, there is no joke about these penalties in Europe. And in a number of parts of Europe, penalties could be abolished because there is a awareness that the state must not, without not having to, but should not be brought around. It's been in Italy a long time. If you've exceeded your speed, they've taken your car. We're just saying that whoever's a returnee and causes a fatal accident, and I don't know anything else, only we can take the car away from him. In Italy, these penalties are inappropriately harsher than ours. And people don't think about it, but they make sure they don't fall into that river to get hurt. The deletion of Article 17c makes it impossible for supervisory authorities to control the transport of timber from forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. What do we say now? If it's state property, then let's let it steal. Let's go abroad and sell. This is happening, this has happened, people dear. I'm from an area where we have forests. I've been checking out the forest economy. He can't steal one cubic of wood. He can't. Then who's stealing? But it's not that little farmer we're talking about all the time, it's that little winemaker yesterday. These are people who don't do this, but that's what speculators do. The subject needs to be dealt with. I read last week, there was a photo in the paper, one desperate voice, and the ground was thrown into some water area, and I don't know what. Why don't we hunt bastards like that? Why don't we hunt them down? Where did that wood go? Who paid the taxes to the state? It wasn't about the chicken, you know. That one didn't pick up branches in the woods and clean up his property. That's huge. Now I've prepared the data for you here, and I'm not going to bother you with the numbers right now, this is our forest law inspector. How many cases have been discovered just in the last few days. And before this law, you know exactly how if the police stopped a truck full of colds, they could weigh the truck, they could check the driver with an alcohol test, they could check the driver's license, but they couldn't ask him, "Where did you get this cold? Where did you put it? Who gave it to you and where are you going?".. That was absurd. That's how our country worked. Let us try to work orderly in all areas, not just small farmers, small winemakers and so on. Today, there are criminal visits to doctors. Finally, thank God. Tomorrow they'll probably be with the notaries and so on. So let's get this country cleaned up. We all talk about corruption, but when we step on our fingers now to the forest mafia, I don't know anyone else tomorrow, and then we'll all be protecting and not punishing a small farmer. On this side, in those days when we discussed some legislation yesterday, today, no one has ever talked about any thieves. Why are you talking about thieves on that side? Who's talking about thieves? A farmer, why should he be so named. It's an hate speech for me. Let's think of such words. With this law, we want to limit the grey economy. Whether it's good or not, when we're looking for those who want to bring the country into the cafeterias, in the cafes, it's not worth it, it's nothing. When bread sellers who sell so many tons of bread didn't buy one kilo of flour. Yes, it is nothing, we are now hunting those who trade in wood in an ugly way, illegally, stealing, literally stealing, and now it is necessary to protect them again. Let anyone who wants to talk about not knowing how long ago, the Members of Social Democracy will not allow it. I hope there's a new law coming, because we've really processed it, and we're gonna need your help there. We are, as we were at fault yesterday, against great penalties, but everyone laughs at us – 50 or 100 euros, that is not punishment. And once again, what I've said a hundred times, I drive through village 50 an hour because I'm afraid of punishment. No, because I'm a bad driver if I drive 70, and I don't know what I can do. I'm afraid of punishment. That's right. The one who goes into the woods, public or private, past all the rules of the game, must be afraid of punishment. In Italy, we'd confiscate his truck, you know, not wood, not wood. That's the way it is around the world, but there's already another culture. Anti-corruption commissions in Germany don't need them, they don't need them in Switzerland because culture is such that you don't cheat the country. Because if you're cheating, it means I'm cheating on myself. And then we don't have a doctor for free, we don't have a school for free, we don't have social transfers, and so on, not to mention, because we know that. That's why I don't cheat states. When my house burns down, that country, society will help me get on my feet. That's why they don't cheat states, but we all want a little bit of coffee, a little bit of bread, a little bit of everything. I believe it was a good purpose, but I really repeat that we have in the process, a law coming into the National Assembly that will save these things. There's always a few obvious things, if you're gonna talk about it, you've never had a motorcycle in your hand. You can't tell me that, okay? That's not the point of asking a fellow here, you've ever been a wood saw, you've ever grown grapes. If you're not, be quiet – I know what it is. That's not how it works. You're always insulting the workers and the workers in the ministries, sitting in the offices, you have no idea, go to the field, it's true. A lot of people should go out on the field. They go to the field, but sometimes other knowledge is needed, not being able to hack with a motorcycle. Unfortunately, that is the way it is in life, and I repeat it – let's stop using the word in any connection that he is a farmer or a farmer. worker, resident of Nova Gorica, pardon, some place. He is a lazy man in the city; he is a thief, and we do not repeat this; it is over. That doesn't belong here. We will not support the social democrats of this law, not out of speculation, but out of the desire to get even better, to save in the new law what I have written down, which your law does not cover, and it is imperative that this needs to be done – not least the maintenance of forest trains and roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Brultz. You have a replica, Mr. Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you. I could replicate myself to the entire discussion of the predecessor, but only to the end when he said they wouldn't support this law because they were preparing a better one. This is precisely a mistake, we in the SDS Group, together with colleagues from Nova Slovenije, have prepared a law that is now in force full of amendments, which have gone about this direction, where the ministry and our law are now going, but you have heard them. That is why your voice today is "against" this law exclusively because it is a proposal for a law by the SDS, Mr Brulc. And no, we're not saying that farmers are thieves. Your side tells us how farmers are thieves, precisely because of the laws you're proposing, or because of the laws we're proposing and you're not supporting them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u92	Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. That there won't be a dialogue like yesterday's Wine Act. Some of the positioning parties said that our law did not prevent the grey economy. No, no, no. Our law does not allow the possibility of intimidation and intimidation of forest owners, especially small ones. It prevents ours, it doesn't allow it. The law was passed five months ago, when the minister went to interpret this law in the State Council. In order to avoid a veto in the State Council, he promised that within 4 months he would fix the removal of self-consumption carriers, because also European directives do not stipulate that it is necessary to have traceability for its own consumption. This is not what the Directives provide, but our government has recalled how, on the basis of these European directives, it has been given the opportunity to intimidate again the small man, the small forest owners; and it has laid down such high penalties that everyone, the small ones, will be dissuaded by the fact that the bureaucrats will show how powerful the muscles are, how they can punish someone. The Constitution states that penalties must also be proportionate to the offence. Are the penalties proportionate to the offence if the penalty for someone who drives wood worth 200 euros is to pay the fine of thousands of euros? It's better to confiscate everything with a means of transport than pay the penalty. For a minor offense. Mr. Brulc spoke of the Holocaust — neither does this law save, nor does the previous law. You could learn that we have a forest management plan that applies for 10 years to a specific area. Based on this, the Institute for Forests, experts, issue a cut decision without going to the field to take a look. It is not necessary for only owners to go to the field, to take them as experts cancel which trees are to be demolished. But if they're dry, if they're sanitary cuts, they don't need an expert, because every farmer knows whether it's a dry tree or not. To clean the forest’s edges, for example, because the agricultural land is growing, you must now have carriers, you must have a decision to cut down those trees that hang on the lawn or on the field. You have to have a conveyor for those trees that grow on some shores, let the oak grow in five, ten years over the thickness that you don't need a carriage for. And you need to get a ride under this law! Now the government has found an excuse, as if because of the Real Estate Tax Act in this law, it has to determine where the means of maintaining forest roads under the collected forest land tax at the local community level will go. That is not true, it is stipulated by the Real Estate Tax Act that the funds are excluded in a special account for this purpose. It's just an excuse that you don't have to admit that you've made a bad marriage and you have to fix it. And with this correction, we'll see what kind of law will come, you don't solve the essentials of hunting trucks on roads that drive cold. When a truck from the warehouse loads a lot of different owners after major decisions, how can a customs officer, a police officer on the road, when he stops him if he has any of the 10 owners' refrigeration, find out if he's in a violation or not. In practice, I think it's impossible, even a customs officer and a police officer probably don't separate certain ranges, probably separates the spruce from the beech. But the question is whether it separates pine and spruce, or gabre from beech, or maple, which is one of the most expensive. He has to call the inspector, the expert, and wait for him to come, two, three hours to find out if that's what the law says. Missed. And that is what everyone knows — the Austrians, the Germans, the Italians, those dealing with it. No, but we have experts like that, and we're going to educate them. We'll educate the customs and the police that they'll know. That's not true. Besides, the Forest Office already doesn't have the money for parts of the woodsmen on the ground that we should be doing. It has turned out that you have made 200 000 euros with carriers at this time, and they do not have the money to do professional work for what they are called. Indeed, the government is going in the direction of criminalising rural areas, farmers, property owners and with high penalties to intimidate this part of our Slovenia. This government, as has already been said, is a government of taxes and penalties. The penalties must be dissuasive, that's the only reason, and as much as possible. Mr. Brultz said he's driving 50 through town because it's forbidden because he's afraid of punishment. He can only do it for punishment. But I'm not guilty because it's dangerous to drive across a village of more than 50, not because of the sign; for the safety of traffic. We have a bunch of loose ends in this loving country of Slovenia after 20 years. And now we're going to solve with high penalties to dry up, harvest all the people in the countryside. We are ruled by officials, in particular the second level of officials; and trade unions, particularly the public sector unions. They rule. Today, we do not have an interlocutor – a government to comment on our marriage, an expert argument as to why this law is not good and why that law will be better adopted yesterday by the government. The government itself has committed itself by not taking the time to discuss, because it obviously does not want to, because our proposal for a law is so bad that it does not deserve an reasoned answer, or the opposition of experts who should be in the government, but apparently they are not. Because these laws are written by officials who seem to have no experience in the field. As Prešeren said: "Only the shoes belong to Kopitar. And that also applies to any speaker today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. As far as forest management is concerned, we have been discussing this in the National Assembly for two years — under the previous and present government. Otherwise, we boast that we have enormous wealth to arrange the forest-saw-forest-processing industry, but whether we have no luck or little knowledge. I must also personally acknowledge that I have expected a systemic solution in this area during this period, not just like this document, the carrier. But there were no systemic solutions. I expected the sharing of interests in this forest-saw-forest-processing industry to be regulated, of course, with the aim of more jobs. Of course I'm not talking about this program, the wood is beautiful, which is supposed to achieve other goals. Wood as wealth, not wood as firewood. But what happened happened. The Ministry proposed a partial solution, setting up a carrier to ensure traceability of wood. The feelings when this law was adopted were very different. I wasn't quite sure this thing was going to work, but it was giving the foresters a chance. There have also been a lot of comments in public, a lot of heated debates. After that, the minister promised to propose a supplement to the adopted law, as well as some of the results that have been shown in practice – positive and negative ones. Unfortunately, I must also give everyone the criticism that the ministry is late with these changes and that it has been enough time, but now we are here where we are. You're telling your SDS colleagues that someone a priori is rejecting your proposal. When I read your goals, which you are pursuing, that there will be rational control of the traceability of forest forest transport in order to achieve the objective of preventing the placing of timber of illegal origin on the market and that there will be positive effects on the state budget, I would agree with you. However, when I compare this rationalisation further with really traceability, I think we are looking at the following. The proposed solutions may already present problems with the issuance of the transport document, because you are strictly not talking about the document, whether it is a carrier, or whether it is a consignment note, but you are talking about the broader concept of the document itself. In the end, it is not even clear what are the safeguards against counterfeiting of these documents that the carrier is supposed to use. After that, the proposal also does not give the authority of the Slovenian Forestry Institute to use personal data, the issue of the decision to grant the cut is also linked to the tax number. And the latter prevents the control and traceability of both documents and forest ranges themselves. We further note that it does not give the supervisory authorities the right to have a look at the databases themselves. Nor does your proposal regulate the keeping of records by the individual owner. In addition, the deletion of Article 17c makes it impossible for supervisory authorities to control the transport of timber originating from forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Then, in the case of domestic transport, your proposal does not limit transport itself, it is said that you do not determine the quantity that should be. Although I am sorry today and I agree with you here that the Ministry responsible could and should also respond to your comments. Then, in drawing up a proposal prepared by the Ministry, the matter would be facilitated. In the main objectives, you are proposing rationalisation, but there are too many open issues in implementing matters in our view, so we cannot support your proposal at this stage. We'll wait for the Ministry's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Croat, on behalf of the motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I'd like to replicate my colleague Brultz, even though he's not in the hall right now. He said earlier that he was very critical of our proposal and that we had already talked about good solutions or talked about it as a coalition. But the fact is that today we are correcting, we are trying to correct the bad solutions that were implemented five months ago when the coalition Members and Members of Parliament confirmed a law that is practically impractical or fraudulent. According to data from the field, it is now apparent that the law has not been verified in practice, and therefore there are various speculations not to say in the end even to the theft. Look, we need to limit the grey economy – I agree, we need to limit the grey economy. But where does your coalition go with the grey economy? Since we're in the law, which also applies to agriculture, I'll say that in the countryside you want to close tentacles in the countryside! I say, until Minister Židan, who is in charge of the pursuit of the grey economy or the prevention of the grey economy, until you actually go to the tax registers, this is not comparable to the measures we have taken with this law. It closes completely here. It's still open there. So, don't say you're preventing the grey economy from happening because you're still a long way from doing this. I'm just hoping you can make it in the end. At that time, I also inquired about the proposal for a law, whether it had already been adopted by the Government. Do you know why I'm surprised – I'm surprised that there's not much difference between our proposal that we're considering today and those that will come to our tables. There's no big difference! Look what happens. It will still remain a separate system for state forests and for private owners, it will still remain as it is. The concessionaires will still be in a privileged position. A new implementation of the carriers will be introduced, which is similar to what we propose, a very similar charter. You suggest that the forest owner will be able to transport 6 cubic metres of wood, we suggest that this is unlimited, because we think that there is no need for forest owners to limit their own needs to cut down and bring home, to a saw or anywhere, because each owner of the forest is taxed through cadastral income. Now you've introduced a property tax, and now you want to tax the fact that more than six cubits are not allowed to drive. Come on! This is really about total misdirection. What's going to happen to this form, this carrier. The forest office will sell this to owners and this transport company. This form will have to be kept for five years. And that's for everyone. For forest owners, private owners and so on. And most importantly, you've said before that the punishments we're lowering are no longer appropriate to be too rigorous. You're also reducing your sentences, and now you're reducing your sentences. If we now compare this law that we are proposing and this law that you will bring to the National Assembly, you will see that there is no difference. There's no difference! However, you are under that provision that something else must be arranged within this law because of the roads of the forest. The real estate tax law is very clear. I don't know why anything else has to be done in the Forest Act. So, very small differences. I am now sure that in fact I am sure that you will not support this law because it has been prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. And that's wrong. Every day we miss at this time is the possibility of an abuse of the law you passed five months ago – a coalition here in. Why? On forest roads, purchases are made on carriers, and then the carrier simply no longer needs this carrier, which you have talked about so much today – how necessary they are for traceability and so on. They don't need it, the inspector can't ask it because it's already a carrier or another buyer. We propose, once again, that you listen despite everything, despite the obvious commitment in the coalition that you will not support this law, but perhaps once again that you will consider, because it is a matter of simplification and effective control, in practice feasible, real control. We introduce instead of 2 documents, and this is a special document in accordance with the rules which are subject to the concession, according to our proposal only the minimum content of the transport or delivery document is legally determined. Why? Because then one document also fills that legal void in vehicles which did not cover forest wood assortments purchased on the truck road in the forest. And what we add – there is an exception for owners who are natural persons who can only transport wood for their own use on the basis of a tree cutting decision. This is a key message today, in addition to the reduction of punishment. So why are we talking about punishment? Do you even know what nonsense you did five months ago when you confirmed the law that the government brought to the National Assembly? Article 77c of the third paragraph states: With a fine of between €300 and €2,000, an individual shall also be punished for the offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Do you know what that means? This means that if the forest owner forgets this carrier at home, the inspector, if he stops it on the road, punishes him with 2,000 euros. That's what you did with the fines. It's one of the things that we do. We're deleting it. Of course, a private owner must also have a tree-cut decision at that time. And that's all he needs. And we've added here 1 sentence to punish him with 100 euros if he doesn't have it on him. We are mainly going against forest owners, farmers who will cut and transport wooden assortments themselves. We're also reducing the penalties to make you understand this comparison. It is now the case that, with a fine of EUR 5,000 to EUR 50,000 for the offence, a legal person is penalised by an individual who carries out an activity that has wooden assortments loaded without a carrier. Okay. We are here reducing the sentence from 800 to 20,000 euros. Seems like a pretty big punishment to us. Next, you punish him from 300 to 800 also the individual who transports wooden ranges – that is, the farmer who carries him. We're also lowering this sentence. It is still a relatively high penalty, which will certainly achieve its purpose. Above all, we want to simplify procedures with this law while ensuring traceability. And to ensure that it will no longer cheat like a fraud at this point, and this law is being played, which you confirmed five months ago. We want to help. I expect, I really expect, Members and Members of Parliament, because I know that this bothers you that the marriage was so bad five months ago that you will finally confirm it and that we may be able to improve it together, together, with common strength. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Croat. All the debaters who have been reported have been given a chance to speak, and we still have time. I invite you to apply in the remainder of the time for further discussion. Two panellists have been reported. You all have five minutes. Before that, the Secretary of State also took the floor. Mag. Tanya Strniša, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament. We must bear in mind that European legislation requires us to prevent a Member State from placing illegally harvested timber on the market. In order to ensure for this purpose the traceability of wood and the system of necessary care, which means that the members of the timber sales chain must have certain records. And we are today discussing whether the law adopted in July is achieving this goal; or whether it is implementing the objective of the law proposed today by the Group of Members. There was also a lot of talk about the law adopted yesterday by the government. I agree that, in July, the law adopted was not conceived in certain provisions to prove that, after we started implementing it, certain provisions are unclear or that the supervisory authorities, which we also prescribe by this law, have difficulties. That's why we're changing the law. We also replace it with this proposal, which we are not considering today, which will come, I hope, to the National Assembly. For this reason, we have changed a lot of things, we have promised; we have also realized what was promised in the National Assembly and the Council to abolish the carrier when it comes to transporting its own timber owners for our own consumption. Immediately after the entry into force of the law, we started a dialogue with both forest owners and other NGOs and social partners on the one hand, as well as with the customs administration, the police and forestry inspection – precisely because of these shortcomings. the ambiguity of the provisions eliminated. But what we can find out after these five months, so the law was not ready immediately, because we had to operate it, but it was a new system also in practice, to test. What can we find out after five months? That 49.9% more decisions were issued within 3 months, from September to the end of November than in the same period of the past 3 years. It is said that there has been a higher demand for decisions and this can also explain the difference. Some Members do not believe the number of €1 million in unregistered cuts. You may not believe me as a representative of the government, but this number has been summarised in your report by the Court of Auditors, which examined the studies of the Institute for Forests of Slovenia and the Forestry Institute, which have reached similar figures as to the actual undetected cut. But the proposalr also believes because he cited the same number in his explanation for changes in the law. I think this number is going to go down now, because it's obviously a larger number of decisions. Let me get to the point. Why do we, as the Government, believe that this law, which is now proposed by a group of Members, does not ensure that illegally cut timber is placed on the market? I agree, certain articles, certain paragraphs in your article, which speak of carriers or of a transport document, as you call it, are the same as in our law. The main difference is that when you describe this document, the law does not provide for what our law provides for a unique bar code and that the carrier is issued through the Institute of Forests. It is said that one publisher, the inspection will be through these bar codes – and anyone who receives this carrier will be registered there. The inspectors will be able to verify the identity of these documents, there will be no way to copy, create and destroy this document. We also propose a six-cub retreat, that there is no need for carriers, but there must be a record at home, which you do not have. How you will ensure by your law that someone with one decision, which can be valid for one year or more years, does [[Incomprehensible]] 100 cubic metres of wood from the forest shall be injected into 50 cubic metres if there is no record. That's impossible. As a result, we feel that your marriage is not well thought out. I hope that this law that we passed at the government yesterday will solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Croat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Now we've finally learned what we've been talking about all through today. That there is no difference between the law in fact. So between the law we're proposing today and the one you're going to or we're going to get into the National Assembly. The State Secretary rightly said that the regulation was the one that no longer allowed speculation and that traceability needed to be ensured. We are absolutely in agreement, and we have come from this in the drafting of the law. You said that the law that was passed in July was fulfilling its objectives. I don't think so. There are more speculations than there were before. You got out of the field if you talked to the field, information about how things are going now and the trucks are inoperable. The trucks are no longer important. Right now. And I'm glad you said that the data in the tracking documents would be similar to ours. However, I did not get an answer why the government decided that 6 cubic metres was the optimum for 1 forest owner to suddenly cut or actually bring. Objection to the Court of Auditors and talk about a million cubic metres. You know, there's something planned, and then there's the actual situation. And the Court of Auditors relied on what? We're on schedule. Therefore, do not say that the numbers of a million cubic metres are sacred and that this is the only truth. I don't know. I don't believe it. I don't believe it, but if it is, look for it in the big ones, not in the small ones. That's where you need to look. And you get the concessionaires out of the system again with your law. Why? Why duality? Why does someone have to have a carrier? Why doesn't someone have a license? Despite the fact that traceability is ensured. I say the marriage is the same for everyone. As far as punishment is concerned, I am glad that you have come to this knowledge and that you will reduce the punishment. In view of what you have said and what the coalition Members and Members have said, I no longer promise to support our marriage today. Although it is a pity and could be corrected, you have completed these comments, which you have said very quickly in 5 minutes now, you could complete it. It's not a problem at all. Why should we reject our marriage and wait for something new? Why? Because it was proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is not correct, this is not right. And you all know it's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you very much. And now, Mr. Marijan Pojbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will start a little differently, always sitting here in the Parliament of the President of the Government and most of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, as well as Members and Members, saying how we must listen in this House, how we must stick together, how we must support solutions, no matter who proposes them, which are good for our citizens and citizens and so on. And dear colleagues, including the distinguished representative of the Government, what has appeared again in this House today? That you're extremely double-crossed. You're working one, you're talking another. You have proven this this time again because the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed a good law that corrects almost everything you have screwed up, coalition and government, when you adopted a law five months ago that is lifeless, totally bureaucratic, harmful to this country, especially harmful to small farmers, for those with small forests. We have protected those who have concessions that control the vast hectares of our forests; and we can only ask ourselves why you did it. I think the answer is in the palm of my hand. And most citizens understand this very well and know exactly which direction this government and this coalition are taking again, this Slovenian chariot. To hit the countryside, the small ones, and to give the chance that those who are so far can do everything they can in the future, whatever comes to mind. And it's at the expense of most of those in this country who are struggling to survive. And according to my opinion, you work with most of the citizens and citizens of our country of servants. Girls who won't be able to pray through the front door because they don't know if there'll be a cop, a customs officer, an inspector, a warden and so on. Is it a democratic state? Is that what our people deserve? Is that fair and fair, what you do? And you're doing this with new taxes and new penalties. And let someone else explain to me that this isn't it. People don't hope to get past the threshold anymore. Giants, giant thieves, bankers, uncles and so on, and they walk, ride with BMWs, have huge villas that are rated when we talk about real estate taxes, between 50 and 60 thousand euros and so on and so on. Dear coalition, dear government representatives, please, I think the night has passed, that sleep has been enough. And this sleep where the dreams were that were harmful to this country. Open your eyes and start working in the interest and benefit of the Slovenian people. For the benefit of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Please, if you are talking a lot about how we must stick together, how we must listen, how we must help each other, with the holy God himself, if you see – no matter what the Slovenian Democratic Party and to propose good solutions – it corrects your bad solutions – let it be supported. I ask you kindly on behalf of the Slovenian people, not in your own interest. It's human error, but I'm trying to wake you up, I'm trying to ask you on behalf of the Slovenian people to start thinking in the right direction, not destroying everything that's not written on your skin, which is not bureaucrats, which are not thieves, which are not gentlemen and so on. Do not allow yourself to make a distinction between a poor nation and a narrow group of those who harass the entire Slovenian nation. And don't make servants of the Slovenian people because they don't deserve it. We will never allow this to happen in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will not agree to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. We have concluded the debate with this. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. With this, I interrupt this agenda item and also the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue in half an hour, that is at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u105	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to break the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, following an urgent procedure. We continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 December 2013, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 5 tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There were 74 Members and Members present, 45 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 24 tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present; 69 voted in favour, against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am making an amendment to Article 25, which has been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 32 tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I am making an amendment to Article 53. The amendments have been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am making an amendment to Article 59, and the amendments have been tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups. The amendment is also substantively linked to the amendment to Article 32, which has not been adopted. Was he? [[Yeah.]] So this one is valid. So we decide on the amendment to Article 59, the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Can we make a decision? Explanation of voice. I invite you to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Joža Velikonja has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. The amendment to Article 59 was also summarised as a proposal by the Chamber of Fusion Managers. Article 59, second paragraph, amends to allow a period of 2 years for the sale of the property of the insolvency creditor to be extended to those holders of the mining right of exploitation against which the bankruptcy procedure has already been initiated before the entry into force of this Act, but which have not yet been subject to the mining right of exploitation on the basis of the first indent of Article 60, first indent. The new third paragraph also deals with bankruptcy debtors who are already subject to mining rights under the provisions of Article 60 of the current law. I believe that this provision, through its retroactivity, can lead to disproportionate and non-conformity, particularly between those undertakings in bankruptcy and those not having the same objective – this is the need for mining rights. We will therefore oppose this amendment or abstain from voting in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. We have already said in our position that we will bind our support for this law to the adoption of the amendments to Articles 25, 32 and 59. I must express quite amazement that after two days of coalition coordination again some parts of the coalition are thinking in a different direction than what they put on the table at the beginning of the meeting. Nevertheless, we will support this amendment and it will also be a condition for the law to be fully supported by us. I don't know what coordination is about if the coalition doesn't know what to put on the table at the plenary session and then pretends someone won't support it. I'm surprised. I suggest you support this amendment, because it saves a lot of trouble in this Mining Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 34. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I note that the Second reading adopted the amendments to Articles 5, 24, 25, 32 and 53 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. We will table an amendment to the last adopted article.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you. I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue after item 4 of the agenda. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests is appropriate for further consideration. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I note that this also concludes the legislative procedure on the proposal. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On behalf of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Security of the Republic of Kosovo on cooperation, this is a bill on ratification of the agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Security of the Republic of Kosovo on cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. This is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Convention on the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work (Mode Convention No. 187) (ICTDD). The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. And since no amendments were adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the eve of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Night's Work (Mode No. 171. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present his position [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. We have before us an important decision concerning the public service of Radiotelevision Slovenia, and we love the following three points part of the RTV bodies from the quota chosen by the National Assembly. The purpose of this procedure is to ensure the supervision of the implementation of the public mission of national radio broadcasting, which also plays a very specific role in this company. Not only is this institution in a very specific way financed because we participate via RTV subscription, and because we pay from the electrical connection everyone who has this connection. It is also important because it must ensure by law certain obligations and also the rights and plurality of the programme. The Institute must provide credible and impartial information broadcasts, ensuring the integrity of reporting on political developments at home and abroad. It must provide quality education programmes, providing quality information for all important, cultural, political, historical, sports, social and other events. And there are many other areas listed there that this institution must carry out. We cannot go beyond the fact that there are a lot of complaints about the programme as far as the content is concerned, in terms of taking into account political balance or global visual plurality, there is also a strong anti-Catholic orientation in the work of this institution. In the case of the composition of bodies of an institution such as RTV, it is important that the organs be composed plurally. The National Assembly is simply an institution within which this should be ensured. However, as regards the composition of the Programme Council from the quota of viewers and listeners, it is necessary to establish that this principle has not been followed. Only representatives supported by the ruling coalition were elected. It should be noted, however, that the census was carried out in order to bring about the composition decided by the coalition. No sign of any political plurality. Here it points out that even the representatives of the most liberal party declared in the National Assembly – the National Sheets did not blink for a moment when no one was elected, for which the coalition voted or for which the opposition voted. So today we like 8 members from the audience and listeners quota, and in addition to the next item, we like 5 of the political parties. So there are only 13 people in the Programme Council and between 13 there are only 1 in the quota proposed by the opposition. In this way it is not possible to ensure any plurality, no serious control, which means that even in the next period we cannot expect to improve the plurality of the media landscape, which must be covered by the public service, public media of national importance. We will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members. I give the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin. [[He doesn't want to.]] The next one gets the word Masha Kociper. [[He doesn't want to.]] The following is Mrs Sonja Ramšak's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. As the leader of the parliamentary group said in the introduction, I will not support this decision on my own. It will obviously be necessary to make substantial changes in the voting process or to decide who may be a member of the Programme Council. Indeed, with this composition, which has been voted on, and all the complications, we prove that we are not following this objective. If we look at the law itself, what are the powers and tasks of the Programme Council, I think that politics will continue as it has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The social situation is such that today's decision is extremely important. The choice of proposals itself should be extremely important and if we want this country to move forward for the better, we should really choose a range of people who are qualified to do so; we see that it is completely different. The coalition and, I believe, the delegates within the coalition have chosen a single-colored Program Council or candidates for the Programme Council. If we look a little bit at the CV or even the history of the candidates, then we see what prevailed in the coalition. Here I must commend you, or Mr Möderndorfer, that he was transparently free-minded when he protested against the counting of votes after the vote and simply said by our count, we counted each other, the results are not right, they must be different. And here I wonder what the media is doing. When we elected the Programme Council in the time of the Janša government, a Member left a ticket where he wrote down his choice of 8 candidates. All four years ago, the media kept writing about the brick harvest and the terrible crime that had happened, a terrible crime had occurred, and now the leader of the parliamentary group said that it was all staged, all ordered that there was no soldier to resist. It is so clear that the elections were not really necessary, because they agreed, determined and chose. For this procedure to be thorough, it is clear to me that after a few months or how long it has been since the current President of the Peacean Lesjak Programme Council was elected, he has done something wrong. I have heard various theories about what has been done, whose human resources moves have not been drawn to the benefit of the ruling and political ideological options. And he didn't get a vote – but a few months ago he was the best for the same coalition and for the same people, and now he didn't get any votes, not by chance. In addition, if that same name was found among the chosen former Members of Parliament, Jelinčič. At the time, he was inappropriate on all the criteria, a nationalist, and I don't know what all the contempt is worth. Now the coalition has chosen him and it's a trade, that's perfectly clear. And he will be the Janist of this power. Because of the fact that you have used such a thing according to the criteria and have not looked to the future of this country. It is quite clear that under this Programme Council, public broadcasting will be a media washer of the brain, as one of the far most observable commentators, columnists in the past week in the article Media brainwashing. If you read this, everyone has to admit that she dissected with millimeter precision, and that's the fingerprint of your behavior. It's not about this country, the media should be the supervisors, not the apologists. You chose apologists! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you. The next word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. We daily monitor the talk on corruption and irregularities – practically in all areas. A few months ago, we also read an anonymous woman who spoke about irregularities in the public service of RTV. At that time, the Supervisory Board ordered the audit and the audit found and confirmed all the anonymity statements. That is why we also expected effective management action on RTV to replace someone. Unfortunately, this did not happen, as a standard few smaller measures, no one lost their jobs, no one had to pay back too much travel costs and so on. Then we witness a vote on the Mandate-Election Commission, where, according to democratic standards and also under the law of the opposition, there would be a certain number of seats on the Supervisory Committee or. in this case in the Programme Council. We have acted differently and have always allowed the opposition to have their representatives in the supervisory councils because we know how important good supervision is, because at every step we see how regulators, supervisors do not do their job as they should. If they do anything, then they'll be suspended, like, for example, supervisors at the Oncology Institute, the Clinical Center, and so on. Therefore, I will not support the proposal before us. As has been said, one of the 13 representatives is a representative of the opposition. Clearly, you are against plurality, against control because you do not want to have representatives of the opposition in the Program Council. That is why I will not support the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. By acting at the meeting of the Mandate-Election Commission, the coalition has only demonstrated the importance of the media field or media control, in particular national control, over national public radio broadcasting. It is quite unusual that 45% of the National Assembly from the audience, according to the public, failed to provide any of its proposals in this process. Everything happened just like the coalition set itself up. This indicates that you want to maintain and manage media control in every way. The fact is that for some time now it has been noted that public RTV services do not operate according to the principles of sound management, that there are many mistakes in operation, that funds are wasted in this public service and that the programme created by public broadcasting is not quite in line with the purpose prescribed by law. We are now paying public television for all those who have connections, and obviously only some can design the program, saying those who are politically sufficiently profiled and those covered by the coalition. I think this is a very inappropriate approach for the coalition to joint matters. It is obvious that you want to maintain full control of the media in every way. I know that when politicians are provided with this, it is easier or easier because most of the work for the majority in the National Assembly is done by the media, one of which is the national media. The coalition doesn't have to do much in this case. It is quite different when the media area is more balanced when there is some appropriate reporting on the opinions, opinions, decisions of the groups in question, decisions of anyone else in that country, and that this role of the first barrier or key barrier is not taken over by the media space. Until something significant changes in this area, there will be very big problems in this country by then, because if it is not equal, if it is not even, if there is no critical reporting of problems in this society in the same way, some topics remain protected. If the themes remain protected, certain actors become privileged as well as protected. In some others, marginal problems are becoming a major national problem. I think that, in particular, on projects where the National Assembly should already act differently from the point of view of conduct, decision-making and structure, such bodies as the Radiotelevision of Slovenia should also be provided differently. In our mandate, when we had the choice of the Programme Council, we allowed a third of the cities in the Programme Council to form a coalition. The same has happened in other enforcement bodies. In the previous term, this is said with the Pahor government, and this is no longer the case in the mandate of this coalition. There's no third, there's no tenth, there's nothing. It is also practical to ensure a complete monopoly in the area of control and management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. No, no, no. You're giving up. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision calling for members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia: Metka Hojnik Verdel, Jedrt Jež Furlan, Sašo Lap, mag. Milan Lovrenčich, mag. Joze Osterman, mag. Brankica Petkovic, Matjaž Sterže and Bozidar Zorko. In doing so, I inform you that, under Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Radio Television Act, Slovenia will adopt a decision if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Can we make a decision? Explanation of voice. I invite you to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me say that New Slovenia – The Christian Democrats of this proposal will not support this decision. But we're not going to argue. We hope and expect that some new time has come in this country, that once and for all, human rights will no longer be violated as regards the public institution RTV Slovenia. In spite of all the composition of the programming councils so far, regardless of who was sitting in them, they did not consistently respect the 14th article of the Slovenian Constitution, which says to read, "repetitionio est mother studiorum". In Slovenia everyone is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material condition, birth, education, social situation, disability or any other personal circumstance. They're all the same before the law. Let me make our point. Since the Law on RTV Slovenia has been in force, human rights have in fact been violated because religious freedom has not been respected. All the time. And Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats have not competed for any special position in the Programme Council, but we do have some hope that it will be slightly different from now on in the programme of television and the programme of radio. We receive many letters from listeners who are mandatory contributors, listeners, and viewers who protest and feel neglected about the functioning of this institution. And here it is not the task of those who are employed in RTV Slovenia, but it is the task of the Programme Council to harmonise the programme so that the law is respected and the Constitution is respected. So when we vote, we'll press the quorum key. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 23. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Under point b, we are moving to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Council by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Joze Tanko doesn't want a word. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer won't. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members. Mag. Ivan Vogrin gives up the word; Mrs Maša Kociper does not want the word; Mrs Sonja Ramšak does not. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, would you like a word? No, no, no. Mrs Alenka Jeraj does not want to, Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Jani Möderndorfer do not. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for the members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, pursuant to the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, Cyril Baskovic, mag. Danica Cretnik, Nikola Damjanić, Miha Klon and Jelka Stergel. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47 to 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Under the item, we come to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Council by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. First of all, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u124	Your Honor! The Commission approved yesterday the proposal of five candidates for members of the Radio Television Supervisory Board of Slovenia. The proposal was drafted last week, but the meeting was suspended before the final decision was reached at the request of the SDS, which warned that the candidates selected did not reflect the relationship of the parties in the National Assembly. Yesterday, Positive Slovenia did not support the SDS proposal for re-voting, for 2 reasons. The re-voting of candidates, as proposed by the SDS, was not even possible. The mandate-holder committee should reject the proposal for a decision and repeat the procedure, with the need to re-invitate the parliamentary groups to propose the same or other candidates, which means that the National Assembly, according to its programme of work, would probably miss the deadline within which the term of office of the current members of the Supervisory Board would expire and Radiotelevision would be unsupervised. Second reason, Positive Slovenia points out that the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia merely stipulates that the National Assembly appoints 5 members, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly. In doing so, it is worth noting that no parliamentary practice has been established so far in the appointment, or that the mandate-election commission mentioned the provision of the law has been interpreted differently, depending on the composition of the Mandate-Election Commission and the ruling coalition itself. The law therefore does not refer to the proportionality that the leader of the largest opposition parliamentary group so likes to repeat. The credits for this unclear provision can be attributed to the author of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, mag. Branku Grimes of the SDS. It is also more obvious from all the members of the Supervisory Board of previous mandates that each time the ruling coalition interpreted the provision of the Grims Act differently and that the statements made by the Head of the SDS Group do not hold. There is no evidence of proportionality in parliamentary practice. However, there is a parliamentary majority that always appoints representatives in the Supervisory Council. In addition, they would point to the SDS candidate only for membership in the Supervisory Council. The law provides that the members of the Supervisory Board must not be members of political parties' bodies from publicly available data. Although they were not the most up-to-date, this is evident, more than clearly. However, that the proposed candidate is an official in the local committee and an official in the Slovenian Democratic Youth is only a fact. It is also true that the PSC has very clearly defined this issue. And each time the problem is that the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest opposition party in the National Assembly always interprets it only as he sees it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 26 of the Broadcasting Act in the first paragraph provides that RTV Slovenia shall have a Supervisory Board of 11 members. The National Assembly shall appoint five members, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly; four members shall be appointed by the Government; and the employees of the public institution of RTV shall elect two members from among themselves in direct elections. How one interprets the representation of the parties in the National Assembly may be a problem, but it is clear that the representation of the party in the National Assembly is measured by the number of votes. Here we must note that the Mandate-Election Commission has elected five members, with the candidate of the Slovenian Democratic Party, although our parliamentary group has almost a third of the votes in the National Assembly, not elected. However, a candidate for Social Democrats was elected, who has 2.6 times fewer votes in the National Assembly. The candidate of the National List, which has 3.7 times fewer members in the National Assembly, was also elected and the candidate DeSUS, who has 5 times fewer members in the National Assembly than the Slovenian Democratic Party, was elected. All these three coalition parties have 22 members in the National Assembly. Our Group of Members is 26. We did not get any in the Supervisory Council, and these 3 customers each one, that is to say 3 Members. Given that the candidate of the Slovenian People's Party was elected to the Supervisory Council, which also has 4.3 times fewer members in the National Assembly than we do, and that it is a person who was probably even a Radiotelevision official, that is, Janez Čadež, then it is difficult to say that the plural proposal has been formulated that representation is proportionate in this Supervisory Council. It is also difficult to say that there will be any supervision in the Supervisory Council of the operation of the public service of Radiotelevision. It's hard because it's obviously a coalition proposal. Of the 11 members of the National Assembly, you voted by the coalition MPs 4; 4 is appointed by the Government, which is said to be 8. The coalition will have 8 of its 11 overseers, 2 other employees, one former employee. It is said that this Supervisory Board cannot perform any supervisory function, none. Even so far, there has been a lack of supervision in the Supervisory Council, except in this part of the mandate, when the Supervisory Board was chaired by Mr Miha Klun. Even so, in the last few years, there has not been much control over the operation of a public authority. Significant shortcomings have been identified, including audit procedures that were determined at the request of the RTV Supervisory Board, and irregularities have been identified, but there are no measures in this area. So talking about doing anything in this public office, either with regard to programming through the Programme Council or through the Supervisory Board, is absolutely unnecessary because it will not happen. As to the reasons why someone cannot run for RTV. The candidate we have proposed, even in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, is not a member of the SDS. We have certain bodies, she is not a member of any of these bodies, she does not perform any functions in these bodies. What Mr Möderndorfer said is only the reason he is attracted to hair. And if this eliminates the candidate of the largest opposition party, then that is sufficient reason to strongly challenge the seriousness of the establishment of the Supervisory Council and also the measures and controls it is expected to carry out. Clearly, the composition of both political corruption bodies can be politically [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] and all the things that this kind of organ-forming brings with it. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, he's giving up. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Regrettably, I cannot support the proposal to appoint five members of the RTV Supervisory Board of Slovenia because we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that before the vote in the National Assembly the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service should be obtained, which means an interpretation of the provisions, that the representation of political parties in the National Assembly should be correct in the Supervisory Council between 5 members. However, you did not wish to take account of the coalition Members and Members of our proposal. I think it's unfair because there is still doubt as to whether the biggest opposition party in the National Assembly should have one in the Supervisory Council. This further indicates that all conditions will also need to be systematically examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you, too. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. As was already the case yesterday on the Mandate-Election Commission, today I will not support the decision to appoint five members of the RTV Supervisory Board, for a simple reason because the coalition did not act in accordance with the RTV Slovenia Act. It did not comply with Article 26, which states, inter alia, that the National Assembly appoints five members, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly. I must say that since I have been a member of the National Assembly, this has been for several years now, I have never experienced that the biggest opposition party would not have received a member of the RTV Supervisory Council. It's a precedent that can't be in your honor. In short, I will not support this because, for the first time, you acted contrary to the law and because you did not go to the political ferple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I will not support this proposal, either, because all the principles have been undermined in this proposal, which came from the Mandate-Election Commission on the table in the plenary of the National Assembly. It was a broken legal provision and something similar did not happen at the time of independence. This is a confirmation of the unanimity of the present power, political and ideological. It's a sin not to say anything worse. If a colleague from another party had previously spoken that he hoped that a new time had come, it must be determined that a new time had come. Without prejudice, without scruples, you are trampling legislation and the Supervisory Council, which is chosen under such dogmatic commands, will not be able to perform its function. Public RTV will not only be a media laundry of the brain, it will also be a laundromat of public money. Programmes will be confirmed here, which will have nothing to do with the public service. There will continue to be irregularities that virtually have not yet been able to come forward by any other supervisory council, even though it has been chosen in accordance with substantially more transparent and democratic principles. It seems that Director Filli has already been aware that Mr Möderndorfer has already told him who set up the Supervisory Board, so he has been arrogant for the last few months. He left the National Assembly once when he was invited to the meeting that he would no longer cooperate with the Members because the opposition had convened that meeting. Another time. Even the Minister has reported to us that the Supervisory Board has not confirmed certain projects and the Minister has left in a demonstration. But it was different. He left for a short time because they did not confirm certain things according to his taste. More than likely, this supervisory council is already uncreditable because of the way you used it. All these people will be devalued because they will have to respect your political and ideological guidance and the Radiotelevision programme will be significantly worse. Now, at the time of this power, sometimes one Sunday afternoon I watch this program and it's a shame that they don't have anything of their own, they're still running some old movies on Sunday afternoon, and it's getting radically worse. It is said that money is used for purposes other than those it was intended for. And you want all of this confirmed, burned, and public money to be back through this wash, but actually stolen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we cannot fight corruption. Public RTV should have an outstanding anti-corruption function. Because corruption in this country is a dragon with 100 heads. And you support corruption with such personnel, and such resilient staffing was not at the time of the worst communism. It is the legitimacy of this coalition that sometimes says that it will fight against corruption, actually supports it in all possible ways and supports dedicated people in this country who have afforded all the looting, any destruction of the sovereignty of this country; and lastly, you will probably receive it. Every sovereign state has public television, with us becoming a state public house, as many speak. The logical consequence is that with such television we will not be able to defend the sovereignty of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you, too. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Nor will I support this proposal to appoint members of the RTV Supervisory Board of Slovenia. Nor did the coalition take account of the law which provides for balanced representation. Let me read once again Article 26, which says: "The National Assembly appoints 5 members, taking into account the representation of political parties in the National Assembly. Four members are appointed by the Government, while RTV Slovenia employees elect two members in direct elections from among themselves." It is likely that those who have received no votes, however, by the measure of the coalition, will come through another segment, so through the government. They don't need to get as many votes as they should on the Commission's terms of reference. Our representative, who has been to the RTV Supervisory Board, has proven himself. It is! The audit showed that they were holding all those irregularities listed in the anonymity. Our Public Finance Supervisory Commission has dealt with violations in a public institution on several occasions. Once again, it is a whole lot of irregularities and money-slipping on all sides with overpayments of broadcasts that have not been paid at all, up to the accrued travel costs that have not been incurred and so on. However, there is pressure on producers and those outside co-workers who are on contracts that work contractually with RTV and in the end make virtually all the program that we can see. The audit also found that a large number of part-time employees were doing part-time work, not those who were employed on RTV; that they would not talk about how many employees and part-time employees were on RTV compared to other TV houses. The audit will be reviewed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, as after the audit the management had to prepare corrective measures, say what they would do. Like I said before, nobody lost their job. Those who have been overpaid travel costs will not have to be reimbursed, no such guidance has been provided for these fellow workers who have had some special privileges, which is standard in this country. We've got a bunch of privileged and other people who have to watch this and then they're privileged to cover their losses. Obviously, you do not want good and effective supervisors, because you do not want supervision to be good, so I will not support your proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. The coalition has allowed a great deal of disrespect for the Radio Television Act, including in an article that discusses the composition of the Supervisory Council. It is just one of the many violations that occur in this call of the National Assembly. 22 members from 3 coalition parties elected 1 candidate, according to the National List, DeSUS and Social Democrats. This is the part of the National Assembly that received three members of the RTV Supervisory Board. Our delegation, which has four members, has not received a single member in the RTV Supervisory Board. No one explained any of the reasons why this happened. Even today, when we listened to the opening position of the leader of the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly, he did not explain this. Disobedience of laws becomes a fundamental criterion for the functioning of the coalition in this reference, a fundamental part. And if this is happening at such sensitive points and at public meetings in the National Assembly, how do these things, violations of laws take place where, by nature, decisions are slightly withdrawn, such as in the Court, Kadu, Blue Insurance and elsewhere. How illegal things happen there. And the fact that there are such deviations in the systems isn't really anything out of the ordinary. This is the way he works when he tries to abuse the law and cover a structure that should be different from that which is now being voted on, he says a lot. This protects privileges, protects customerism in this way, protects illegal acts, and as a result, corruption. And unfortunately, the proposal before us cannot be supported. If the coalition insists on doing so, it will insist. However, if we respond in a timely manner to our warnings, it would be possible to arrange this today or tomorrow, since we have another extraordinary meeting, only the will of the National Assembly must be done. But apparently the coalition doesn't have your will, it goes like a machine through decisions, even the bad ones that it's made, it doesn't look left or right. And in this way in this country, probably even in the future, there is no way to count on any positive changes. Only that we will always cover bad decisions in return with increasingly expensive projects, with a higher RTV subscription, with greater recapitalisations of the state sector and other companies. In short, what you are doing is a guarantee that all the things we are witnessing to now will just continue — and only to a greater extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you, too. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. So many deceptions, forms of truth and hard words have been said in this debate that I have to answer. In fact, Mrs Jeraj correctly read Article 26 of the RTV Slovenia Act, which states that the representation of political parties in the National Assembly must be taken into account in the election to the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Council. However, nowhere does this article provide that proportionality must be taken into account, it is said that political parties in the National Assembly should be represented in proportion. If this were to be the case, the law would probably not provide for elections for members of the Supervisory Board. For if elections are to take place, of course proportionality cannot be guaranteed in the same way as if it were established by law. After the elections, 5 political parties in the National Assembly were represented in the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Council, but the national disaster and the end of the world is because once among these parties there is no SDS. And this means political corruption and everything that we have heard in this debate, because obviously only the SDS representative is guaranteed that honest, uncorrupted and without any corruption work will be done on RTV Slovenia. I will not comment on what I think about it and why I think that SDS is not a guarantee of non-corruption, but the fact is that we have held democratic elections in the MVK, we have received candidates from political parties. Among these candidates, which I think is crucial, is also the opposition's candidate, but this time the Slovenian People's Party's candidate was represented and the vote was carried out. All the debates on how pressures will now take place on the work of the Supervisory Council, how ideological guidance will be given, how the Supervisory Council will not be able to control the works of the RTV service, because it will be constantly pressured by the coalition with its majority, just showing how some explain themselves, perhaps on the basis of their own experience they understand the work of the Supervisory Council. I can assure you that representatives gathered on the basis of elections, representatives of 5 parties, four of the coalition and one of the opposition can also perform quality work in the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Council. And I'm sure they will! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you. We have concluded the debate with this. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia Marko Bandelli, Janez Čadež, Bogomir Eržen, Damiana Knap and Mag. Rosvita Svenšek. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mag. Branko Grims, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u140	Your Honor! Formulation on mandatory representation, as the word "mora" is used, the formulation on the mandatory representation of political parties in the formulation of this proposal is not the first time in the current law. This formulation has already been made in some other laws. Even in that law that regulated the work of RTV before the adoption of this law. If memory does not deceive me, Mr Ribičič used this first formulation. Those who dispute the formulation themselves can be mentioned within the transition left about the appropriateness of such a formulation. What is most interesting, however, is that everything so far has been fully clear what this formulation means that the political parties should be represented as much as possible. And for the first time it has happened that the biggest opposition party has been completely excluded from these bodies, it is said that it cannot even look at how it operates and affects the rationality of business. This is, of course, contradicted by the fundamental principles of democracy, which is respected in all European countries; even in Great Britain, where authorities are, for example, appointed by the Queen, it also takes into account the principle that proportional representation must also be by the opposition on a case-by-case basis. Only we are treated differently because it is said that it is not understood because we do not want to understand what the fundamental principles of democracy are that are universal and apply everywhere and are easily understood by everyone who just wants to understand them. They are not understood by those who are not interested in one institution that is important for democracy – because the media is still important for democracy, without plural media is only a farce. Those who do not want to understand this will be consciously in violation of the law and will then find themselves before Parliament such a proposal as is before us today, which can also be graphically displayed very nicely. The government's four proposals, 2 over there, 3 on this side; from this last quarter -- because we're divided into quarters -- no one. And then there's talk of proportionality, I'm sure. The one who says that probably had a basic math flower, but that's not what this is all about. It's about having a democracy flower, and because it has a democracy flower, it also has economic performance at zero. And this is the problem facing this country, which for a moment also reflected in the fact that 1 simple, clear regulation of the law, unlike all previous mandates, suddenly does not want to be understood anymore. I will vote against such a policy because it is undemocratic and economically unsuccessful. It does not lead anywhere but to a constant increase in taxes and, in the case at hand, a constant increase in RTV contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 23. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are now coming under the heading of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a Member of the State Audit Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Council by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision with which the mags are involved. May Bilby shall discharge the duties of a member of the State Audit Commission. Can we make a decision? We're voting. We are voting on the discharge of a member of the State Audit Commission. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 4. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are coming under the heading of the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a member of the selection committee to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Council by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Commission's anti-corruption Senate continuously withdrew and informed the President of the Republic of Slovenia thereof and then informed the President of the National Assembly. The public statement said, inter alia, that they were resigning from the presidency and vice-presidents because there was not enough political will to really fight corruption. They said they were supposed to run into obstacles that prevented them from successfully fighting corruption in the country. It is said that under the government of Alenka Bratušek they cannot or must not fight corruption because it is such a political will. Under the Janša government, which was a dictatorship, they had no such problems. And that says a lot to the Commission to prevent corruption as well as to the government of Alenka Bratušek. Most likely, however, there are reasons to resign from positions elsewhere. Probably also in the fact that the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is headed by Magog. Goran Klemenčič has already done her work almost a year ago, when, on the basis of a misleading report, she, along with targeted protests, and also now has broken down the government of Janez Janša by means of a negotiating banning. So the government that was dealing with the most important issue at the time — the rehabilitation of the banking system and the consolidation of public finances. Therefore, the responsibility for such a situation in the country is also vested in them. Let me remind you that, on the other hand, when it comes to the billions of amounts for which those who caused the bank hole should also be held accountable, the anti-corruption commission has not carried out any procedures, nor has it sought links and responsibilities in the granting and hiring of bad loans. Let me remind you, for example, of Dr Gregor Virant's cheap airline ticket, where the Anti-Corruption Commission has done absolutely nothing. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption did not notice any disputed business related to the operation of the Ljubljana Municipality. Obviously, the anti-corruption Commission has overlooked this. And there's a lot more to it. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission must, or must, verify the legality of the conduct of any individual, but must be objective and act in accordance with integrity, not selectively and politically biasedly. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that the next composition of the Commission, or its work, will be professional and not political, as has been the case so far, but there is very little possibility for this. As long as we look at the composition of the selection committee to elect a new President and Vice-President of the Commission to prevent corruption, we can see that the selection of the new members of the KPK Senate will be more than just a public performance. The Commission shall consist of five members, one appointed by the Government, one National Assembly, a non-profit organisation, a Judicial Council and an Official Council. From this we can see that the political impact on the appointment of the new commission will be great. We would expect at least the members of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which has decided between the two candidates, to follow the principle, at least if not otherwise, of political balance. And to the Commission, which will assess who is most suitable for the appointment of Presidential and Vice-Presidential posts in the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party would be sent instead of the Ambassador of Positive Slovenia. This would also be done in a politically wise manner, as it would be elegantly avoided by the perceptions of the political bias of appointing the new President of the Commission to prevent corruption. We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer does not wish to present his position. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mag. Ivan Vogrin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, our feelings differ in certain matters. But feelings are feelings, and I think we have to make decisions based on facts. And I will take this opportunity to say how I feel about the discharge or resignation of the Commission to prevent corruption. And let's help ourselves with one simple example: if a director runs a business and a business is not doing well, he has a loss, workers don't get paid, or even goes bankrupt, it's logical to give up because he's failed. Bank administrations and many others should also step down. Since some are very sad that the commission has resigned, others are very happy that the commission has resigned. Let us see what the result is, in fact, of the work of this Commission. In 10 years, since our existence, we have been on all the world scales – not only the Slovenian scale, what we measure at home, the perception of the corruption index, but what was measured in Germany, Der Spiegel – have reached the top of the most corrupt countries. Then logically, it is not a matter of feeling that someone who has not done his job, because it is called the Commission to prevent corruption, has resigned – that is perfectly logical. I was also dismissed because I was a failed CEO. That's logical, and I have all the consequences. And that's right. And let's make a decision based on the facts. With regard to the appointment of a commission and the appointment of new members of the Commission's anti-corruption Senate, I hope that we will take into account that it would be good for political neutral, top-level experts, with high moral, ethical standards; even better if they were brought from abroad. After all, the free movement of goods, services and people applies. Let us bring people from abroad to make order for us in Slovenia. I think this would be the beginning of Slovenia becoming a pretty normal country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Jože Tanko has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. The elective procedure of the members to elect a Senate for the Commission to prevent corruption is actually quite interesting. A member of this committee is proposed by the Government, one member is proposed by the Official Council appointed by the Government, and one member is appointed by the National Assembly elected by the Coalition in the National Assembly. Of the 5 members, therefore, three are directly appointed by the coalition. Now the question is, what will be the choice? Either it's an independent choice, or it's a government coalition choice. It's those people who will come out who will be chosen by the government coalition. There's no way anyone else is coming. That the problem is even greater, the National Assembly will appoint a person to this body who does not implement the provisions of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Articles 20 and 21 lay down the supervision of the assets of the Senate for the prevention of corruption. Coalition in the National Assembly or The majority of this coalition in the National Assembly has done everything that we cannot complete the process of control over the assets of the retired President of the Commission for the prevention of corruption for one year. However, for the other two members of the Chamber, treatment is not even started. Although the law clearly provides that this must be done and that the National Assembly will carry out this task. On behalf of the National Assembly, this is done by the Mandate-Electorial Commission; the President is Melita Župevc. I ask the well-respected members of the coalition why, in three years, even now that we know it has to be done, there has not been a single review of the property situation of the retired members of the Commission to prevent corruption. The President of the National Assembly is also responsible under the Rules of Procedure for the observance of laws. There's no warning on this side either. And those who have actually done everything to ensure that the supervision is not done, that the National Assembly does not exercise supervisory functions over the Commission to prevent corruption, now appoint the person who has not actually done so to the electoral commission. What kind of signal is that in this area? What kind of signal is that? Someone who does not comply with the provisions of the Integrity Act should do so in his capacity as President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, does not do so and is appointed by this coalition to the Commission to elect a new Chamber of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. There's already a basic problem here. Failure to enforce laws is a fundamental problem. Failure to implement the Anti-Corruption Integrity Act is a fundamental problem in this case. And I think the National Assembly should do everything to prevent such recruitment and so-called commission. If the President were to carry out his task and if the coalition were to actually fight corruption, they should propose the discharge of the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission because he does not implement the law. For the prize, the same coalition calls it a commission to elect a new Senate. So, characterized, unburdened by the fact that nothing will be done or attempted to do anything in this area, anything that would deviate from the mainstream view of corruption in this coalition will be prevented. I do not think that such a proposal can be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. It is my duty to clarify that, as President of the National Assembly, I do not have the authority to relieve the presidents of commissions or of working bodies. This procedure, under which we now appoint a member of the Commission, is also carried out within the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Even Mr Jani Möderndorfer would like a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u148	I have to say, I'm a little tired of this repetition. It's like watching a matrix in the National Assembly. We have before us a decision on a proposal for a decision on the appointment of a member of the selection committee to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Commission for the prevention of corruption. This is where we listen to everything else, just not that. We keep hearing about some investigations, I don't know what else anyone else is doing. However, they do not stress that new and new proposals always, in all cases, continue to block the work of the MVK and that we cannot even carry out this control. They don't say that. They don't say they really want something, they're looking for a culprit, but they don't really lead to a point where they can do it. And that's what's most subversive in the National Assembly, that you abuse cameras and your public appearances for bringing things so far away, to the absurdity that at the end of the conclusions we talk about things that don't have pears, not apples, not anything. Today we are talking about who we will propose on behalf of the National Assembly for the selection of candidates for the new leadership of the PKK. That's the point and nothing else. And come on, Mr Tanko, once again to pour yourself pure wine to block the Senate work at the MVK when we suggested that you tell who will lead this committee, we even suggested that this would be the former president of the MVK, you blocked all of this. You brought a bunch of illegal documents to the MVK, which is true, but you don't say. Good. In the final stage, our position is that we will support this proposal and that is how we should discuss it in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you. Procedural. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. What Mr Möderndorfer has enjoyed is not true. Since most of this process is behind closed doors, I propose that you disclose the magnetogram of the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, at which both SD and Positive Slovenia representatives have announced that they will not participate in the investigation of the President's property situation to prevent corruption. Well, don't say anyone doesn't want anything. The Rules of Procedure of the Management and Electoral Commission are just as it is. And I suggest, President, that you tell the President or the leader of the largest parliamentary group that this moment, in a way other than that of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, this control of the property situation of the Commission's Senate in order to prevent corruption cannot be carried out. And to find out why the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission has not yet called for any meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission to review the property situation of Mr Praprotnik and Mrs Savinšek. In three years, since this commission has carried out these tasks, not a single procedure has been completed over two members, that is to say against the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and not to begin. And to avoid all these doubts or ambiguities that have been met by the leader of the largest coalition parliamentary group, I propose that these documents be disclosed, that you disclose them or invite the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission to do so. It should also explain why no review of the assets of the other 2 members of the Commission to prevent corruption has been initiated in 3 years. This needs to be told to the public because these things are being manipulated. Whether it's being done consciously or having any other purpose, I don't know. But I'm sure that's not the case. To avoid all these speculations, I suggest you do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you. I cannot take your procedural proposal into account because it is not in my jurisdiction to disclose the magnetograms of the Mandate-Volution Commission. It is right to present this debate and this wish to the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I hope that you will reach an agreement that will be acceptable for the information that may be relevant to the public to be transmitted. But this is the mandate of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, not the President of the National Assembly. Mr Jani Möderndorfer wanted to do so on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much. President, we have already learned in this National Assembly that Mr Tanko is the master of the creation of the Rules of Procedure, the abuse of procedural principles and everything that is possible. What Mr Tanko has allowed today to discuss in his debate first the closed session of the MVK, and then the masterly reverse and insulted explanation of how I explain here what was happening in the closed session, and even in public it requires you to open the minutes, although the Rules of Procedure well know that this President of the National Assembly cannot do so, under any circumstances, either of his powers or of his interference. There's nothing he can do. You're consciously doing this to start a theater in the National Assembly. Please, President, because you know this and you are aware that, according to at least the minimum standard that we have in the National Assembly, you do not allow the misuse of procedural procedures within the procedure, let alone an explanation of the vote, let alone everything else; especially when it is more than clear that we are not even talking about the proposal for a decision that we have before us, but we are talking about a KPC where some are very impatient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you. I think that in my reply I have made it clear that I cannot take this procedural proposal into account, and I think it is also entirely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for a member of the selection committee to elect suitable candidates for the appointment of the President and vice-presidents of the Commission for the prevention of corruption a mag. Melita Zupevec. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 28. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 28.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Under the heading, we are moving on to the request of the District Court in Domžalah, Criminal Section, for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against Judge Mojco Kanc. The request was referred to the District Court in Domžalah, the Penal Department, for consideration by the Assembly. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body which informed the Assembly in writing. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 134 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act, concerning the request of the District Court in Domžalah, Penal Section, number 1K1108/2013 of 4 July 2013. 11. On a permit to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Domžalí Mojco Kanc for the suspicion of a criminal offence under Article 158(1) and (2) of the Penal Code and the offence of an offensive charge under Article 160, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code, shall not grant immunity to Judge Mojci Kanc and shall permit the conduct of criminal proceedings. Pursuant to Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting? Ms Maša Kociper has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u154	Your Honor! The positive Slovenia will vote against such a decision and I would like to explain why. That is also how we voted on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Under our constitution, judges have the opportunity to grant them immunity, to grant them immunity, as do Members. And this particular issue is decided by the Mandate-Election Commission and then by the National Assembly. A representative of the Council of Justice is always involved in the decision-making of the Commission of Mandate, explaining how the Council of Justice has examined and decided on the case. In a specific case, the representative of the Council of Justice said that after examining the case, it was the opinion of the Council of Justice to grant immunity to the judge. Let me say that last month, in a similar case, the Court of Justice ruled that a criminal case, a criminal action against one of the judges, should be continued. Such a view of the Council of Justice was followed at the time by Positive Slovenia. In this case, too, Positive Slovenia will follow the opinion of the Council of Justice. The representative explained that it was a criminal charge against one of the judges. He brought an action against her by one of the disgruntled clients, says the disgruntled party, and according to the Council of Justice, it is bullying. Let me remind you, the Institute of Immunity is not intended to protect an individual, but to protect the integrity and functioning of an institution. If people start to mass-use these possibilities of criminal charges or criminal charges every time they are not satisfied with the judge's decision, it can mean not only the intimidation of the judges but the collapse of the entire system. It is therefore necessary to listen from the case to the case, whether it is a matter as described by me, or whether it is the suspicions of services of serious crimes when immunity cannot be recognised to judges. As it is said, in a particular case, we believe that such a decision can trigger mass lawsuits and intimidation of judges and make the work of the courts impossible, so we will not support this decision in Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I'm surprised there's even been this explanation, but still. See, this National Assembly, in my memory since 2004, has not continued to recognise any immunity to any Member, in fact, Members do not normally refer to immunity in such procedures. It's our estimate of some kind of self-hygiene. Even in the previous term, during the Prime Minister Borut Pahor, we have already reached some standard in the Mandate-Election Commission and in the National Assembly, which we have told him that we will not recognize immunity from judges as well. The last case I remember, at least, was the Copra case. It is not so much a question that we would not want to grant judges immunity and that judges could avoid criminal proceedings. There are several aspects of this issue. The first aspect is that if we automatically recognise immunity in the order of order, because the Council of Justice usually says, "we suggest that immunity be granted". Others have not yet been proposed, except in cases of detention or similarity. Of course, there is one question. The judge may then be free from criminal proceedings for the rest of his life, in fact until the age of 65 and leave for retirement. I am aware that in the case at hand, when we asked the representative of the Council for further clarifications that this is a very trivial matter, someone said that the judge had offended someone, and that is why he has tabled a motion for prosecution and now there is a hearing. The trial in such cases, I know from practical experience, from the last month, where I was injured, last 10 minutes, and in 10 minutes, things become legal. That is why we see the non-division of immunity not as an act directed against the judge, but as an act protecting the judges. By agreeing to this and by themselves facing justice before their own colleagues, if we say so, we will achieve with them — not only with them, but also with the public — the effect that is needed in court or before prosecution against the suspicions of crime, no matter what status they have in that country. Once again, it's not about being targeted at this judge, it's about the self-cleaning mechanism of the judiciary, and nothing else. It is therefore right not to support immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote, Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u158	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! I'm not a friend of law and justice, but I have simple and very logical thinking. I do not approve of the recognition of immunity at the level of the National Assembly to anyone. The court, it's up to the court to decide. The speaker mentioned the possibility of bullying and so on. The Court is the one who will decide whether or not it was bullying and the one that will prevent mass bullying by refusing and also by financial means as a result of this rejection. And this is that judicial instrument that should operate in the state, which should function in the country, but not that this case refers to the National Assembly. I do not approve of the granting of immunity to anyone at the level of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the decision not to grant immunity to Judge Mojci Kanc and to allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 35. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Mother Records of Insurance and Users of Compulsory Pension and Disability Insurance in the framework of the regular procedure. On Tuesday 17 December 2013, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the Assembly decided, on a proposal from the Government, as the proposer of the draft law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at this meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I also inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 4th item of the agenda, this is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wine, after a reduced procedure. On Wednesday, 18 December 2013, the National Assembly decided on the amendments tabled under the second reading of that proposal, and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group announced that it would table amendments to Articles 13 and 14 of the draft law for the third reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, to the debate and decision-making on individual amendments and articles. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[He does.]] I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u160	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has re- tabled an amendment to Articles 13 and 14, where the penalty or fine for offences under this Act is reduced. Someone found that there were so many and so many vineyards planted in Slovenia that so many and so many crops were declared; and the difference was supposed to be a grey economy. As a result, the Government has decided to make order in this area, especially since the Minister covering this area is appointed in the Government or has taken over the task of reducing the grey economy. This is the same as before in the forests, nobody here takes into account that vineyards, especially smaller vineyards, have the right to drink wine in Slovenia and elsewhere, compared to neighbouring wine-growing countries. And that's not to be taken into account here. With this law, the government grants the right to wine inspectors to control the quality of wine in inn restaurants, which has not been possible until now. We support this in our parliamentary group, but in addition this law prevents the pouring of unboiled wine in inn restaurants, which is a unique one. In neighbouring wine-growing countries, however, they do not prevent this, but they do have significantly smaller vineyards that can otherwise market their crops. It seems to us that this makes it difficult to sell small market surpluses because smaller wine growers have to prepare wine for bottles because it's the only way they can sell. This will reduce the supply of our wines, as self-sustainment is already falling and thus open the way for imports of cheap foreign wines from European countries. We therefore believe that this law is not useful in not achieving the right effect, and there are also very high penalties which the Government considers to be dissuasive. She forgot, however, that they should also be proportionate to the severity of the offence, and they are not. Because for a particular offence, an inspector may punish a farmer of such an amount as his entire annual crop. That doesn't seem right to us, so we're putting these two amendments in. We believe that different steps should be taken in order in this area, to go in the other direction, in order to preserve the cultural landscape, in order to maintain the cultivation of land in the countryside, in particular where vineyards are on the major slopes, to prescribe different measures. But not just punishing and prescribing taxes. As one colleague put it this morning, it is a government of taxes and penalties. We oppose this, so I appeal to all my colleagues and colleagues to support our two amendments, which go in the direction of fair punishment for small offenders.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report for discussion. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u162	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled amendments to penal provisions or to increase the fines, because the context of the resolution or dealing with the grey economy that this government, in particular the Ministry of Agriculture, has been directly ridiculous and ineffective. This has already proved to be the case with the Forest Act, with those unfortunate carriers, an unconceived proposal that those violators have bypassed before the law was even in force. Now at the Wine Act again attack on small innkeepers to prevent them from pouring open wine, not in traditionally declared wine-growing restaurants, restaurants where open wine flows especially during the season around martinis. This is a major feat, not least a tourist offer. Then they follow fines, and someone thought they'd make order. Higher taxes, higher fines, greater regulation and you think we will raise tourism in Slovenia to raise small and medium-sized enterprises. No, you're gonna crush what we got. This is the wrong way. The right path would be a flat-rate tax for small ones, since large innkeepers don't break it with open wine under the counter. And why not? In the final stage, open wine in inn has been flowing for centuries. You're all smarter together today than all these centuries together. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a typical way for bureaucrats to fight and destroy Slovenian villages and people who want to work there, to survive themselves and their family. That's not how you're gonna make it. For those against whom these fines and these provisions have been imposed, shall go beyond these provisions, even before you leave this hall. Because life is a cruel thing. These people are fighting for survival and will survive whether you're with such unhappy marriages or not. I don't know, you've repeatedly bumped your head against a wall when you were making impossible provisions, non-life provisions, bureaucratic provisions. You regulate additional areas, instead of letting people work and live. The vineyards, the small vineyards, we are taxed. Even if we sell wine, we pay the tax, because we have cadastral income. Even if we sell wine to someone, we pay a tax on it. And now you're dealing with someone who's still selling that wine at the bars. In such a way that you will prescribe a bottle of wine, and I don't know what else, you will not be able to deal with it, because they will also be able to bottle wine and sell it, even easier. Respected, reckless actions of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment follow the current lane. One of the inconceivables was the Forest Act with those carriers. What you've done — you've done a lot of damage to yourself, to your ratings, and not least to people, so that some people still haven't been able to bring cut wood home because they were afraid of those astronomical fines. Today with this unfortunate law, you are again beating the other population of vulnerable people. And I don't know when you're going to stop in this mania of yours, the phobia of the gray economy, because that way you're not going to banish it. Hummus for the grey economy is higher taxes. You've decided to follow this path, you've created this hummus, and now you want to crush it with repression and high fines. You won't do that because people are smarter than you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much, President. I do not wish to discuss this amendment, but I want a procedural word, if possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u165	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u166	I do not wish to discuss this amendment, but I want to make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u167	Excuse me, Mr. Vogrin, please make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you very much. President, I have to say, I have this right, your meeting management is far better than your predecessor, though. I sometimes feel a little funny, and so do some others. What do I mean? Before we talked about immunity, I wanted to explain my voice. I've raised my hand three times, some people have even noticed here, and I'm not saying that you deliberately missed me, or that's how it happens in other cases. But what we're doing, once we say, sign up for the debate on behalf of the delegation or the MP, and we're electronically collecting applications. Another time we're looking around the hall. So let's get us a unified system. You can't see from the left to the right, or anyone else, and then it happens that colleague Pukšič goes crazy. Tell me who wants to sign up on behalf of the Group of Members, who wants to do it on their own behalf, and I will not raise my hand three times in the back. I'm not the only one doing it. These are important things, I think as a Member I have the right to express my opinion. And I won't keep fighting and watching if you've seen me or not. We're procedurally making mistakes, let alone substantive mistakes. And I'm not the first one that happened to me. The last time Pukšič went crazy, because Mr Bogovic raised his hand three times, but now I'm going to say my subjective feelings. Now I have this feeling sometimes -- and it doesn't go so well with you, but I'm honest with you -- when the chairman up there sees someone from the other camp, he even misses him a little. These peripetions will be avoided if we have the same electronic reporting procedure. And please, I don't want to be in the next one, but as long as I'm a Member, I'll have more of you to worry about. If I want to speak, I'll sign up, if I have this right, you'll give me your word, otherwise I don't want to play one here and blackmail words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you. With regard to your warning, I must remind you that it is up to each individual whether he will decide whether to explain his vote or not and also on behalf of the Group of Members. It is certainly not a practice to automatically call for a vote in each vote. It's a practice. And it was established in this National Assembly. If you mentioned before that we missed you, I doubt it, for I was looking all over the hall, and there was no sight of your hand. At least after what I can say, but I also looked at you, you didn't sign up to explain your voice. Once again, this is a decision made by each individual, and it is certainly not an automatic call for you to sign up for explanations of vote. Anyone else wants to discuss Article 13 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 13. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I understand the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. And we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 14. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 40. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] I understand the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill has not been harmonised, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 23. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act by emergency procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which we are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments and articles. Two amendments were tabled, paragraphs 32 and 59, following the end of agenda item 2. Following a second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia tabled an amendment to Article 59 of the bill. With regard to this amendment, I inform you that it has not been tabled in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so the National Assembly will not discuss and decide on this amendment. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 32 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia. I am putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the said parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report to the debate. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u170	In the Slovenian People's Party, we are proposing this amendment and we call on colleagues from those parties that are not proposing to support it. This is a substantive amendment, around which an agreement was reached in the negotiations between the opposition and the coalition, all parliamentary groups are said to have been needed in this context for companies that have gone bankrupt for two years after they went bankrupt to maintain this mining right. Otherwise, it is also a major damage to bankruptcy, and again again more Slovenian banks and creditors who are creditors in these companies are appropriately losing this. In this way, I really don't understand what is meant by rejecting the amendment as it happened in another reading. The simple explanation of this is that the second alternative, if this does not remain in bankruptcy proceedings, is part of the bankruptcy mass, part of the fact that this activity is also carried out, is only to allow the bankruptcy manager to first devalue this asset and then to dispose of and sell it at a price. We don't understand why you didn't accept this amendment or why it didn't come about in a second reading. We therefore expect that we will now unitedly support what we have agreed in coordination and has also been aligned with the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Joža Velikonja has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Following a review of this amendment, I note that this dictatorship does not fall within all the terms of the amendment to Article 32 of this amendment and the amendment of the law. Once again, I would like to point out that it has already been stated in the initial conclusion that such decisions may lead to unequal treatment and inequality due to retroactivity, so we propose that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As you have already found, it was not possible to properly table an amendment to Article 59, and we have therefore tabled an amendment to Article 32, which also solves the difficulty of bankruptcy proceedings. We also considered the same amendment on a committee where it was adopted in some way as an amendment to the Committee, but later came from coordination in the coalition and the content of Article 32 moved into the transitional provisions of Article 59. And I am surprised to see that we have received from the Ministry, from the Minister and from the whole government a proposal for amendments, which we find meaningful in solving all the embarrassment and dilemma that we have done on the Committee in the second reading, and then I hear the argument that the government opposes these amendments. I don't think that's right, because the coordination took place two days after the debate that was held on the Committee. On the basis of this useful and important debate, where all stakeholders involved in both insolvency proceedings and the Ministry and the legislature have drawn up appropriate proposals for amendments, which are also confirmed by the coalition and in some way have agreed that the solutions are appropriate and harmonised, and then we hear in the second reading at the plenary session that the Government does not support this. And our information is that that's not true. And I propose that we try to resolve this, however, in such a way as to confirm the amendment to Article 32, which does not fully address this problem. This has been much better regulated in Article 59, but we are still going in the direction that bankruptcy procedures and procedures that have already begun will in some way be concluded within the normal framework and there will be no difficulties in implementing this law in practice. I suggest you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u176	I think that this is an important point where we welcomed the way in which we worked in this law by colleagues from various parliamentary groups, both from the coalition and from the opposition, that we have participated in the coordination of all the parties, that there is an active role and that the opposition has also been commended by the Secretary of State, Mr Kumer. I would ask if we could find out about the government's position on this amendment, because, according to our behaviour, what information we have, the government supports such an amendment and also agrees that it really does solve a problem. It seems to me that if we have taken our time and coordinated it by means of an emergency procedure, we have taken the time to coordinate in the morning, in the evening, then I suggest we take a break and also get the government's opinion before this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-19-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u177	We will try to inform the government's representatives to give an opinion on this amendment. However, it is possible to continue the debate on this Article and this amendment. But if you ask for a break, this break will also be set. However, this moment is a proposal for a government position to be taken. But it is not a condition that we should not be able to hold a debate on this today and vote as well. As I understand it, no one wants to discuss Article 32 and the amendment to Article 32. That is why I conclude the debate. And we're moving on to decision-making. Can we vote? We vote on the amendment of the SDS, SLS and Nova Slovenije Group to Article 32. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 8. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. Allow me because the session is not yet concluded to inform you of the following. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Mining Act. So we still have a vote on this decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices because you were all ready to leave. Can we vote on the decision? We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you and have a nice evening!
