ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Branko Ficko. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the Ombudsman, Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer, to the 9th and 10th agendas, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the representative of the Council of Justice and the candidate for the Deputy Ombudsman to the 10th agenda and the representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 10 May 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions for withdrawal of each item on the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. Following the agreement of the 53rd meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, held on 17 May 2013, I propose to the Assembly that the agenda of the 14th session be extended by the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, urgent procedure, EPA 1185-VI; by the consideration of the draft law on supplementing the Law on Judicial Service, urgent procedure, EPA 1187-VI; by the consideration of the draft law on amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014, urgent procedure, EPA 1188-VI. Proposals for an extension of the sitting were received on Friday, 17 May 2013. I propose that we discuss the proposals for enlargement together and that we vote separately on each proposal. I ask if the representative of the government wants a word as the bill's proponent? I guess not. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. I am closing the debate on enlargement proposals and moving on to decision-making. Before we proceed to the decision, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Sector Wage System Act, urgent procedure, EPA 1185-VI. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 25. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judicial Service, urgent procedure, EPA 1186-VI. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 24. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to expand the agenda with the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on State Defence, urgent procedure, EPA 1187-VI. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 25. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014, urgent procedure, EPA 1188-VI. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 25. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. Let me also inform you that the items we have placed on the agenda will be treated as 3a, 3b, 3c and 3rd items of the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as we have received by reference and the amendments adopted. We are voting on the agenda as a whole. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 14th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 40 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph, Article 245, second paragraph, and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, the Minister and ministers shall reply to the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question, and I ask you to pay attention in the implementation of the questions sent to this effect. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to this agenda item, the following ministers apologized: Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health, and between 5:30 and 19 p.m. for signing an agreement with the trade unions, Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Uroš Čufer, Minister of Finance, Dr. Jernej Pikalo, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Uroš Grilc, Minister of Culture, and Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior and Public Administration. After the introduction, we are going through a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government, Mag. Alenka Bratusek. The first question will be asked by Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members, Honourable President of the Slovenian Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, Honourable Council of Ministers! Dear President! Today it is exactly two months since you and your ministerial team took over the leadership of the state of Slovenia. It's time for the first analysis of your first moves. There are no concrete, reformable ones; they are indicated in the near future. As the most concrete move of your government, we assess the new indebtedness of the country by selling government bonds of $3.5 billion at the beginning of this month. According to your government's assessment, the debt was successful and, in our opinion, reckless, especially too expensive and too fast, before the government showed a strong commitment to implementing the necessary reforms, which could lead to greater confidence in the financial markets and, consequently, a cheaper borrowing of the country. The sales process showed that investors were very interested in purchasing under the conditions offered. On the one hand, this means that Slovenia has a relatively costly debt in view of the global situation. The cost of interest will be comparable to the construction of the third development axis and part of the fourth. On the other hand, markets estimate that even if Slovenia fails to implement the necessary reforms, they do not have too much fear of being carried out by someone else instead. Madam President, the following questions are raised in this regard in Novi Slovenija: What will be the effective annual cost of the Republic of Slovenia in servicing the last sale of dollar bonds? In addition to the nominal interest rate, however, account must be taken of the foreign exchange conversion premium, which will further enhance the debt. In Novi Slovenija we are interested in: How much more will this premium add to the burden? What is the specific purpose of selling government bonds? The concept of the use of funds for the public financial needs of the Republic of Slovenia is very general and is understood as consumption and coverage of current urgent budgetary needs. This, however, does not allow a reduction in the total debt, but rather an additional increase, which the creditors have also made very clear. This means that we must have a clear plan of how this fresh money will bring additional benefits that would justify such high debt costs. In the opinion of New Slovenia, the key issue is: What will these funds be used for, what effects do you expect, and within what time frame? These answers are not only expected by creditors, but are even more important for the Slovenian public. Our independence, economic, social and our future depend on the implementation of the necessary reforms that will break the falling spiral.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you, too. For answers please the President of the Government, mag. Alenko Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr Horvat, for the question that we will be able to clear clearly and loudly the figures related to the issue of the last bonds. But at first, let me do it. I think that last week I have taken quite a few concrete steps that have already been taken and that there will be many more. Two months is less than 100 days each Slovenian government has so far had to prepare things in peace. We are aware that this is not the time, so we did things practically immediately. If you consider our last debt to be a failure, then I must tell you that it was October that your debt was even more unsuccessful. The latest issue of the ten-year dollar bond in May 2013 was more favourable for 10 basis points than the issue of the ten-year dollar bond in October 2012. If I recall correctly, the last task your government carried out was one of the more successful tasks of the former government – at least so it was sold. This debt is cheaper than the last one. I agree, however, and I hope that the last one was after such a high interest rate. The return on the five-year bond was 4.95% and 6% on the ten-year bond. The monetary risk management strategy to which the Republic of Slovenia would be exposed is for all cash flows to be converted into euro cash flows. This is done with two interest rates and a currency exchange. The conditions for substitution depend on the current market situation. In accordance with market practice, the Republic of Slovenia has made an interest-rate exchange of fixed flows in dollars into variable flows in dollars, a currency exchange of variable flows in dollars into variable flows in euros and an interest exchange of variable flows in euros into fixed flows in euros. In this way, the Republic of Slovenia carried out a so-called synthetic debt in euro in such a way that euro cash flows are known. The Republic of Slovenia is not exposed to the movement of the course. The market situation was favourable at the time of the switch in early May 2013 and despite the more costly debt in dollars than in October 2012, the Republic of Slovenia owed less. On the basis of the euro-based transaction exchange, Slovenia reached a yield of 4,59 % for a five-year bond and a yield of 5,45 % for a decade, at 5,55 % in October. Our opinion is that the purchasing option you're asking about would undermine the issue. The recently issued bonds of the Republic of Slovenia on the global market do not have an integrated so-called purchase option that would give the issuer the opportunity to buy the bond early at a predetermined price. No reference bond issued at any time by the Republic of Slovenia has such an option. That's no specialty. As for the content of the debt or what it will be spent on. I believe, Mr Horvath, that you know that the Republic of Slovenia is not in charge of every single thing. We don't owe ourselves when we need money for pensions, when we need money for wages and when we need money for investments. We shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget. As part of the last commitment, we will implement both the implementation of the budget and the repayment of the credits due due, the funds needed for the recapitalisation and rehabilitation of Slovenian banks. This last one will help the Slovenian economy most and in some ways create new or different economic growth, as you have created it. Finally, let me say once again that if you view this debt as a failure, unfortunately your debt has been even more unsuccessful.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u5	Mr. Horvath, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you too, Madam President of the Slovenian Government, for this part of the reply. I would like to give you 100 days of peace sincerely, but, Madam President, we both know the situation of Slovenia and today not only do we not have the money, but we do not have the time. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Finance's website contains very detailed information on our last assignment, please allow me to ask two more questions. Firstly, given the high demand for such a high interest rate, we are further interested in New Slovenia: Did the Republic of Slovenia allow for early purchases of these bonds, allowing for subsequent exchange of bonds and debt under more favourable conditions? Second, even more concrete question: Will these funds be spent for purposes or activities that bring added value more than 6 % per year? Perhaps, Madam President, it will be difficult for Slovenian taxpayers to justify spending money for purposes that do not have growth and bring negative value. Thank you for these answers, and I wish you a successful job. I would like your government to be the most successful government, that is what I want for you, for myself and for all of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u8	Mr. Horvath, I have already answered both questions, but I will repeat it. The recently issued bonds of the Republic of Slovenia on the global market do not have an integrated so-called purchase option that would give the issuer the opportunity to buy the bonds early at a predetermined price. Once again, no reference bond issued by the Republic of Slovenia at any time to date has such an option, nor is it a practice for the reference bonds of other countries. As far as the purpose of the debt is concerned. Once again, clearly and loudly, we are not in charge of each purpose individually, we are in charge of implementing the budget – so that we can give a little more than a billion out of the state budget in order to provide salaries to all those who work in the public sector and are paid from the state budget for all social transfers and investments. I think that, as you say, Mr Horvat, it is impossible to calculate the added value of workers who work on a given day, that pensions are paid when the deadline is set, and that social transfers are indicated when people expect and know that they will receive them. Once again, we are not partly in charge of each purpose, but for the purposes of implementing the budget, for the payment of debts and this year in our case also for what we will need for the rehabilitation of banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you, President. Mr. Horvath has a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you once again, Madam President, for the answers. I must say, I'm a little disappointed. As for the very purpose of using these funds, I expected a more detailed cut. It doesn't matter if we just spend that money. It is only important, at least so I wish that most of this money would be placed in investments that would bring us new jobs. Therefore, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Assembly at its next meeting hold a discussion on the reply of the Prime Minister, Ms Alenka Bratušek, to my question. The National Assembly did not decide on an additional government debt of US$3.5 billion. The National Assembly, however, will accept the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly must be aware of the use of each tax-paying euro. In Novi Slovenija, we fear that the money package that the Government has on the table will result in waste in the Company for Bank Claims Management, the Stopping of Privatisation, the Slowdown of Reforms and perhaps new incentives for TES 6. The current Government, with reckless ease, accepts additional commitments and any conditions for which it is clear to many today that we cannot repay them by such a way of managing the country. On the other hand, we know that these loans are often directed precisely to those needs that are least effective and least willing to be reformed. These are just a few reasons why I propose, Mr President, that the National Assembly decide on my procedural proposal in the context of the votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 21 May 2013, in the framework of the votes. We have thus concluded the first question to the President of the Government. We are moving on to the next one set by Mr Jože Tanko, Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! The investment classification of the Slovenian State Holding and the investment management guidelines – both prepared by the previous Janša government – was rejected on the basis of your government's position, your coalition, on 23 April of this year. The two acts were rejected because the classification of companies and the interests of the State were not to be defined on the basis of the correct criteria and methodology, because no sales targets were defined because there were no calculations and assessments of the impact on other economic operators and so on. However, your government has not yet proposed new acts, although last week, when you presented the two documents you sent to Brussels, you were able to praise yourself with the extraordinary achievements of your short reign. Despite the fact that you have not yet submitted nothing for the entire state portfolio and not for the individual investment of the country to the National Assembly, you informed Slovenians on Saturday, 4 May this year in an interview in the Croatian Morning List that you would start selling the New Credit Bank Maribor. I'm asking you: On the basis of what criteria and methodologies, sales targets, calculations and impacts on other economic operators did you decide to sell the New Credit Bank of Maribor between banks first or as soon as possible? Is it possible that New Credit Bank Maribor should be sold primarily because between 2009 and 2011 you were a supervisor and your work or mission probably not done properly and you gave your own, then professional voice, both for the granting of cheap credits and for investing in various lossy investments of the bank at home and abroad, especially in the Balkans? Do you want to prevent the forced sale of Styrian New Credit Bank Maribor from facing this not exactly brilliant part of your history? There is no secret that the sale of the Stajer Bank could avoid transferring the bad files of the New Credit Bank of Maribor to a so-called bad bank, and thus avoid the determination of the liability, your co-responsibility, due to superficial or conscious decisions in giving consent to self-service in the New Credit Bank of Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you. To answer that, I give the floor to the President of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Although your question has been very comprehensive and it reads: "President of the RS Government, Mrs Alenko Bratušek, I will ask about the sale of state property." – a very precise question – I expected exactly what you have just said and implemented. And first, I'm going to touch the NKBM and the time I was a supervisor. I've told you many times that your CEO is still in the bank. As long as he sits in the bank as executive director, I believe that the supervisors as a collective body have done excellent work, I don't know why you would put him there or during your government. But when you talk about lossful investments and bad loans, I suggest you take a look at the bank, check the specifics if they give them to you. It's business secrets, but some of them are being successfully launched by the media. I have no problem talking about every single job. Alenka Bratušek has not intervened on any loan on her own, and no one intervened on any loan at Alenka Bratušek's own time. These are facts, and I will be very happy to discuss each and every one of them, if necessary, with you. And now we're talking about the conditions we took into account when we were making up the sales list. The basic criteria on the basis of which a list of investments intended for sale was established are based, for the first time, on signed agreements on the joint appearance of the owners in the sale of investments, since the sale of the majority share of the company is expected to be significantly higher than the sale of minority shares of the company. Second, at the bankruptcy of Zvon Ena Holding, d.d. – the larger owner of individual investments which has set up shares in the banks of the creditors to secure loans, resulting in banks being forced to sell these shares in order to improve their financial position. Other owners joined as rational investors in these cases. Higher price. This is about the case of Helios and Cincarne. I hope you've heard very well: the bankruptcy of Zvon En, Holding. Thirdly, under Adria Airways' restructuring agreement, d.d., in which the signatories, including the Republic of Slovenia, pledged to actively participate in the search for potential strategic partners within their respective competences. I think this agreement was signed at the time of your government. Fourthly, the necessity of entering a private investor due to the issue of State aid is that of Adrio Airways, Adrio Airways Technika and Elan. Then also on the financial problems of individual companies that need fresh capital and cannot be provided by existing owners. The sale will allow companies to develop further, efficiently manage and compete – Cereal and Paloma. And the sense of selling companies that are business-related – Aerodrome, Adria Airways and Adria Airways Technika and Terme Olimia Pool and Terme Olimia, d.d. – would increase investor interest. Due to the greater stability of the banking system, despite the fact that Nova Kredittna banka Maribor is a system bank, the government decided to sell it. The Bank will have to be recapitalised further, with potential investors allowing their possible entry into the Bank's capital to have full control and control over the Bank's operations. These are the criteria that led us to decide that the list is prepared as it is prepared, Mr Tanko, and there is no personal decision of mine. I'd be happy if I could renegotiate some credit with you. But I will be very happy if you have the same criteria in your people who participated in the supervisory councils. One of them, who led the Supervisory Board at the time of the worst loans in Nova Ljubljanska Bank, was the President of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, who managed all the assets, was the President of the Supervisory Board, who distributed the worst, most likely loans or the least secured.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u15	Mr. Tanko, you have a request to complete your response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. New Credit Bank Maribor is part of the state portfolio and that's all I asked you. I'm not interested in other people. You were the supervisor, now you are the President of the Government and you could talk about the issues of the New Bank of Credit Maribor for two hours if you were dealing with it. As successful as your supervisors were there, they're talking data. At the time you were a supervisor, the share value fell by 100%, by half. When you were the supervisor, the weaknesses rose from 50 million to 158 million, three times. At that time, profits of EUR 17 million plus fell, the bank came to a loss of €81 million. This came not only from itself but also from individual supervisors and you were there on behalf of the Government, deciding on individual allocations of privileged loans, controversial investments and so on. At the time you were the supervisor, more investments were made in the Balkans, and one of them was, say, Credy Banka in Serbia, where the investment was worth 30 million euros and so on. There's talk of a large number of leasings who went in a privileged way. There are criminal investigations in the bank and so on. I asked: Is this a decision to sell the bank because it wants to prevent or cloud the poor work of the supervisor – specifically this moment you, who are the President of the Government and you have approximately €8.9 billion in assets in your hands? Is this also the work of a bad overseer? Please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u17	Do you want to give a government response? The word is from the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you. Once again, Mr. Tanko, all credits can be disclosed here. It's business secrets, and you suggest that the bank pull this off. I don't have a problem discussing a single loan. The worst loans, including at the New Maribor Credit Bank, were granted in 2006, 2007 and in part 2008. I hope you know who was running the government at the time, and I hope you know who was sitting in the supervisory council at the time. That is why, unfortunately, we had to make so-called weaknesses during the time I was sitting alone in the supervisory world, and that is why the value of the bank was declining. However, decisions were, unfortunately, made substantially earlier. Now, if we were to repeat this story five times or ten times, we would be able to buy and know why we are making weaknesses at a certain time. I think that with the entry of aliens, control will be increased, not reduced, and that because foreigners will come to the bank, someone else, not Alenka Bratusek, may have a headache. I hope that you will have the same vats you have today and that the questions will be exactly the same as those before you when there is another name of an important policy before you. I hope so. Once again, I'm not afraid to put any single credit on the table alone and tell you what and why or why there were arguments that the decision was the same as it was. I don't know who's supposed to get privileged loans, so that's really talking in mind. For the credit mentioned in one of the media, I can assure you that it was paid in full – it was received by a supervisor, a member of the supervisory board, which is nothing illegal – fully paid, repeatedly insured, absolutely no problem and no additional concern, Mr Tanko. For everyone in this country have the same criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thanks for the extra answer. Mr Tanko has a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. I asked the President of the Government a question, and it turns out that I should answer to the President of the Government. Unfortunately, because of the porous, holed answers I have received, on the basis of Article 246, paragraph 2, I will propose a discussion on the answer to my question by the President of the Government. The President of the Government did not answer the question about the reason why it was the first among the banks to be sold by the Government before the adoption of the strategy and guidelines, namely New Credit Bank Maribor, Styrian pride. She didn't say a single reason, and there was a superintendent for two years. Given that I have the feeling that by trying to involve other people I am not interested in right now, this is a matter of other institutions, other questions – but I am interested in the role of the President of the Government at the time when she was supervisor at the New Bank of Maribor. I didn't get any answers to the question. I don't think there's any need for arrogance or anything, but above all, it's necessary to respond properly. Members of Parliament shall decide on the basis of their personal judgement and the Government shall decide on the basis of the criteria. This criterion does not apply to the Government. I suggest that you finally explain whether the decision to sell the New Maribor Credit Bank is related to the fact that you were a supervisor in this bank and that bad decisions have taken place in the bank during this period, not least the ongoing criminal investigation – it is likely that it will bring about something about it. I hope you were as brilliant a supervisor as you say you were, I hope. But I don't know why AUKN proposed you for extension in 2011. That's the next question. But as I said, there were no answers. I expect Members, especially Positive Slovenia or the coalition, to support the proposal for a debate. New Maribor Credit Bank is not anything, it has an important market share and without any criteria, without any analysis without any information from Members, you are through the Croatian media – listen! - report that you're going to sell this bank first. I demand a vote on the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 21 May, in the framework of the votes. Allow me to draw your attention, however, to the following fact that the answers to both ministers and ministers and the President of the Government can be clearer if the question is also very clearly raised. Just to clarify, I must say that your announcement of questions was very general, Mr Tanko. You wrote: "President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Alenko Bratušek, I will ask about the sale of state property." A very general question and, of course, it also happens at the meeting that it is difficult to get a more concrete answer. Just so that the questions and answers at the next sittings are of better quality, I would like to point out this fact. Thank you. With this we have completed the second parliamentary question to the President of the Government and are moving on to the third one put by Mr Franz Pukšič, Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, President of the Government, Minister and Ministers! Ten days ago, the Government, which you run, sent two key documents to Brussels for the future of Slovenia, namely the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme. One of the main priorities you set out in these documents is the recovery of economic growth. This is also of the utmost importance in my opinion, as someone else will be living through state administration, schoolchildren, unemployed people and pensioners, who will save bad banks, who will pay back nine billion credits if not exactly employees, entrepreneurs, farmers and craftsmen – those who are still working today. Unfortunately, your national programme on page four and five offers nothing new. The Bank Recovery Act and the Slovenian State Holding Act have already been adapted in your own way. You plan privatisation as more of a bid than a comprehensive management of state property. In your rescue plan, where you see an interest in job conservation, you have no set criteria, predetermined criteria, and so far you are deciding on the system "today so, and tomorrow we will see how." Dear Prime Minister of the Government, I would like to hear from you, but I also believe in Slovenia: What are these measures, your government's actions, this year and next year to revive economic growth? What are these measures that will give the first job to the unemployed, especially to young people who have successfully graduated from school, and for many years they have been looking for a first job? There are nearly 30,000 of them, more than a quarter of them with high education, which you probably don't intend to hire in the state administration. But, at least I hope, they weren't trained to store goods on the shelves of malls through student travel. What are those measures that will truly attract foreign entrepreneurs, investors – they are the main job generator? Last: What are the measures to convince our successful entrepreneurs to stay home and not move out of the country? Dear President of the Government, I hope that you will be able to tell me more than a few lines in your reform programme, which I mentioned earlier, and that you will not only stop at the VAT hike, which is a disaster both for the economy and for the Slovenian nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you. I give my word to the President of the Government, mag. Alenki Brother, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. I really hope that the government will be more successful than the previous one, where the number of unemployed has only increased. The number of unemployed increased from month to month. We have already stressed several times what the rehabilitation of banks means for the Slovenian economy and thus for jobs, and over this we have also stressed the aid or deleveraging and restructuring of companies. But because you said that I should not repeat what is said in the stability programme and in the national reform programme because I believe that you have read it – there are still more than a few lines. I think we'd find a few pages written on this subject, Mr Pukšič. There is a need to look at what this means for the economy when the banking system is being rehabilitated. I'm going to focus on the things we're talking about with the AIDS bank, and maybe the document isn't exactly written down. As part of the continuation of existing long-term SID lines, the Bank will provide an additional €400 million of long-term resources in 2013 and will support up to a thousand enterprises and maintained or created up to 50,000 jobs on the basis of these and new resources. During the period 2013-2014, the content of the incentive development platform and the increased budget of the platform, of which EUR 595 million in 2013, will be expanded to EUR 90 million as an increase in the already existing financial engineering measure to promote technological development projects. This has been ongoing since 2011 – the scheme will be increased to 240 million euros, to 150 so far, of which 30 million euros will be budgeted and 60 million euros will be provided by the SID Bank. In 2013, companies will thus be provided with an additional €140 million to support approximately 30 enterprise projects, which will generate at least 2 000 new jobs in different regions of Slovenia while maintaining existing ones.; EUR 5 million in the context of the implementation of the second phase of the Microfinance Action through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, which means financing at least 200 micro and small enterprises; EUR 100 million as a new financial engineering measure to finance small and medium-sized enterprises' development projects, of which EUR 20 million is budgeted; EUR 80 million will be provided by the SID Bank, with new financial engineering measures for small and medium-sized enterprises to finance between 100 and 250 investments or enterprises; and EUR 400 million as a new financial engineering measure to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, of which EUR 80 million is budgeted and 320 will be provided by SID banks from other sources. This is a completely new measure, which represents the potential to finance at least a thousand small and medium-sized enterprises and to maintain or create 30,000 jobs. For 2013, the scope of insurance is planned, i.e. export credit insurance, amounting to EUR 910 million. Due to the changed situation in Slovenia, in particular the decline of major construction companies, which were major export operators, instruments are being adapted to support smaller businesses, so we are expected to offer insurance sums to more than 300 companies. Then we have here a guarantee scheme for investments and a guarantee scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises. If I may mention just this last one. In order to improve the availability of bank financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Republic of Slovenia will implement a new guarantee scheme. The forecast guarantee quota is between €500 billion and €2 billion, representing, on a partial basis, a total amount of loans in 2013 and 2014 from €1 billion to €2 billion. That's it, Mr. Puksich, so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you, presidents for your answers. Mr Pukšič has an additional question or addition to the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Madam President of the Government, as far as your answer is concerned, I expected you to answer my question more specifically because I asked you how your government would create conditions for easier work for investors, entrepreneurs and craftsmen. I didn't ask you about the financial incentives, I didn't ask you about the loans, and I didn't ask you about the programmes running from the previous government. Madam President of the Government, as part of the ministerial team, choosing the way "attack is the best defence" and arrogant behaviour, which is not right. It is not a Member, it is an answer given to the Slovenian people. In your program, in the stability program, we've read what's in it. Almost nothing concrete. We didn't find a table of numbers and dates anywhere. Madam President, I would like to ask you: Have you consulted any of the successful Slovenian economists such as Colnarič, Boscarol, Akrapovic? Have you consulted perhaps one of the hundreds of owners of small businesses fighting in international markets before you sent your actions to Brussels? According to the media and the various round tables, we can understand that unfortunately no, because everyone tells you that by raising taxes you will not encourage and reviving markets, you will attract investors, but that you will have to do much more with yourself, from the Ministry to the Ministry, from the sector to the sector, and especially to collect stolen property that went abroad. I ask you again, especially simply: What are your further steps to revive the economy as the economy begins and ends? We all know that. But I wonder if you and the government know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you. Does the President of the Government want to complete the answer? He wants to. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u28	Mr Pukšič, more than accurately say about the millions and number of jobs, I do not know. I can prepare a table for you, send it to you, but the number and number of jobs will remain the same. However, if you point to it, the government can only open up jobs in government or public administration. I don't think that was your intention. I have said what are those incentives already being implemented and will be carried out by the Government in order to maintain or open new jobs. Yes, we have consulted both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and I am aware of it, and I say again and again that it is difficult for any of the economies to support tax rises. Today, however, the situation in our country would be significantly different, Mr Puksic, if when we amended tax legislation in 2006, we reduced the level of expenditure or raised VAT. In our country today, it could be significant, significantly different. However, last Thursday at the meeting, the Government appointed the Council for Development, led by Mr Petrič of Kolektor, so that we will also consult them and some economist and some economist we have also consulted in the stage of the preparation of the measures with regard to many of our next steps. Unfortunately, however, Mr Puksic, in the pre-received minutes received from Mr Janša, I did not receive a draft stability programme, but we carried out the pre-departure programme on 22 March, and the stability programme and the national reform programme should be in Brussels on 15 April. Nothing has been done in this area and we have done the best we can in this short time. There is no time for me to read to you again all the concrete measures I have imposed on you. You have told the entire Slovenian nation, and I will say that I have read to all citizens and citizens clearly and aloud what we are going to do, and also strengthened with the number of jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you for complementing the answer. Mr Pukšič has a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u30	The first part, so it doesn't go wrong, I'll read it. Your Honor! Because with the response of the President of the Government, I was not satisfied, nor was the Slovenian public, as she said. My main question is how to revive economic growth, so, in accordance with paragraph 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the State Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government. Madam President of the Government, as we said, you have imposed measures and programmes that have been running since the previous government, but you have said nothing concrete about what we and the Slovenian public wanted. In fact, the Slovenian public is also asking me as a Member what to start with this stability programme. I can tell you've spoken and just spoken and, unfortunately, you haven't answered anything. The measures you have prepared are against the economy, against workers, against entrepreneurs, against farmers, unfortunately, against the development of our country. What you were attacking also refers to 9 billion money spent in the time of the Pahor government. This, by which you attacked, also refers to part of the work done in the Ministry of Finance, when you did not, we did not make use of European funds, which we have been alerting throughout the period 2007-2013. I can say that on this Slovenian economy, which is unfortunately owned by the Government for a large donkey who is already barely standing alone, you are loading new bags with additional taxes. You're convincing us and Brussels that this donkey will start running, and today he can't even walk anymore. I have another request, honourable Prime Minister of the Government: not to underestimate people abroad and at home, experts and, above all, not to underestimate the Slovenian people. Two months ago, you came for this pay phone with a one-year promise that you have a better program to bring the government, if you lead it, to better results. Nothing is easier than what you are doing today — raising taxes and selling assets! This was also done in Croatia and Spain, and we know where they came from. While saving the economy and reducing its own public spending, unfortunately not everyone can. I therefore expect that we will have a broad debate on this subject in the National Assembly, not because of the Member's question put by the Member, but because of the Slovenian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr Pukšič, but we will discuss your proposal, because you proposed it, in the National Assembly on 21 May, Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. I hereby conclude the third question and answer it. We are moving on to the fourth question to the President of the Government, which will be put by Mr Richard Braniselj, National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u32	Your Honor! The problems in the Slovenian banking system are known or better said, the problems of banks owned by the state in the Republic of Slovenia are known. These problems need to be addressed and addressed in different ways. In any case, it is also one way that owners, in this case also the country, require strict compensation from all those members of the administrations and supervisory boards that have contributed to the damage caused by their conduct to Slovenia and the banks. Another way is to anticipate and expect the National Investigation Office and the Prosecutor's Office to prosecute the perpetrators of the crimes committed in connection with bank transactions. And third, in the National Assembly, where the Investigation Commission was unanimously set up to identify abuses in the Slovenian banking system and where possible policy integration in disputed credits should be established. The question for you, Madam President of the Government, is as follows. The rehabilitation of the banking sector is defined as one of the government's priorities, while at the same time it will represent a large part of the expenditure that we will have to finance. That is why we are interested in: What will be the cost of recapitalisation of state banks due to current business? What will be the cost of recapitalisation after transferring the bad claims of state banks to a bad bank? The last one we want to know is: What is the time frame for the transfer of bad claims, and in particular the extent of the bad claims transferred to the bad bank? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you, too. To answer that, I give the floor to the President of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I'll start like you started. I absolutely agree and do not run away from any responsibility. This must apply to all members of management boards and members of supervisory boards. Those who have committed any crime must be held accountable. Once again, the worst loans we are dealing with have been granted in all or two of the largest state-owned banks in the period 2006-2008. Allow me to read again the reasons why New Credit Bank Maribor is being sold because it was said earlier that I did not say so. Due to the greater stability of the banking system, despite the fact that Nova Kredittna banka Maribor was a system bank, the government decided to sell it. The Bank will have to be recapitalised further, with potential investors allowing their possible entry into the Bank's capital to have full control and control over the Bank's operations. This is the only and exclusive reason why the sale was proposed. The fact is that insufficient capital adequacy and a high proportion of non-performing loans are the most burdensome for the banking system and increase the credit risk of banks and reduce the banking ability to borrow in international financial markets. Key measures to strengthen the stability of banks and consequently improve the financing conditions are the reduction of the shares of poor assets and the provision of the capital adequacy of banks. With a view to implementing these measures, a Bank Claims Management Company has been set up, which is already operational and operating under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. In this law, guarantees are limited to 4 billion. In parallel with the process of transferring bad assets from banks to companies, the recapitalisation of banks by the State will be carried out if it is not possible to attract a private investor – here I am mainly talking about the New Maribor Credit Bank. On the basis of a review of the assets of banks and of the Bank of Slovenia stress tests carried out, we estimate that up to EUR 900 million will have to be provided for the recapitalisation of banks. Once again, this is not an assessment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is an assessment by the Bank of Slovenia. The government is not preparing its own and we are currently standing and moving on the numbers that are prepared at Banka Slovenije. For the start of the process, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must take a formal decision on the suitability of the bank to implement measures to strengthen the stability of banks and for the first and largest banks, the government did so on Thursday – sent it to where it had to send it, and we are waiting for an answer. At this point, we still believe that the month of June is the month when we can first not say bad claims passed on to this society. Three of the largest banks have been identified for the transfer to the company or for the multiple name of the bad bank. On the basis of a review of the assets of banks and of the Bank of Slovenia stress tests carried out, there is an estimate that the scope of the poor transfer claims to the company amounts to EUR 3.3 billion. These claims will be transferred at a transfer value of €1.1 billion, representing an average transfer price of 38%. For these claims, banks have created weaknesses of EUR 1.5 billion, which is why the banks have already done so. These data are based on calculations prepared by the Bank of Slovenia for the purpose of preparing a national reform programme. In parallel with the recovery of bad bank claims, the restructuring procedures of certain companies will also be carried out. Particular attention will be paid to claims against these companies which are in the process of restructuring and are able to ensure long-term and efficient operations on the basis of this restructuring and sustainable business model.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you. I take it that we have concluded with the questions that have been addressed to the President of the Government. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers given. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. Dejan Židan will answer five of the following questions. Mr Ljubo Žnidar first set him up with regard to the granting of concessions and water licences. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u36	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the rest are present! Good-bye! The Member asked me from the area where the Court of Auditors was also audited. I would like to respond in this way: in the area of the allocation of water rights, which is divided into concessions and water permits, a number of activities are taking place at the same time. These activities relate to the preparation of amendments to the law, subordinated legal acts, the preparation of responses to the requests of the Court of Auditors, while some administrative and inspection procedures are under way. The Ministry has decided that all activities will be carried out in such a way that no activity will have to be stopped for all those who need water and have given an appropriate role to do so and have not yet been regulated by concessions. However, in order to meet the first question of how to respond to the requests of the Court of Auditors, the Ministry has a deadline of 25 June, in which we will prepare an appropriate legal basis to regulate, at legal level, how to settle the payment of water for a certain period and other specific cases in concession award procedures. Since these are different legal situations: from timely applications, applications received after the expiry of a specified period of time to applicants who have not submitted an application at all and are paying a water refund, these conditions will be covered to the maximum extent possible by that provision, as the Ministry is aware of the need for immediate regulation of this area. This approach will take account of the legality, the public financial aspects and the economic sustainability of the measure for future concessionaires. In practice, the Ministry also advocates, among other things, that the payment of the amount of charges for the past period should be divided in such a way that the amount can be accounted for in the form of an annual levy on concession fee for a longer period of time so as not to jeopardise jobs. At the same time, we have a commission set up at the Ministry, dealing in particular with six areas: thermal bath concessions under Article 199, bottle concessions, heating concessions, thermal bath concessions and tendering concessions. As I said, we will stick to the prescribed deadline for replies by the Court of Auditors, which is 25 June 2013, and we expect that the Government will also deal with the necessary matters on 30 July. We have a plan, and so it is set out that by the end of 2013, we will have to set up the situation as required by the Court of Auditors, which in practice means that 66 more concessions will have to be granted to existing investors. At this point, there are still about 400 applications at the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, in the water rights sector, and I must say that we are accelerating the solution. In doing so, honourable Members, I would like to point out that the agency receives a thousand 300 new applications at the annual level. One more thing is important, ladies and gentlemen of honor. With the amendment of the Water Act, almost ten years ago, we have established a unique system in the European Union to some extent in Slovenia. A similar system, but only in the field of energy, has France, and it is a system of awarding concessions. Most other countries have opted for an efficient and significantly simpler system for most water rights to be granted via a water permit. The solutions we are preparing at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment will also go in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Mr Žnidar will be asked to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u38	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would only add to the question of the fact that the ministry was, I will say, a bad master in the handling and granting of concessions and water licences in the past and even today. This is a year in which revenue losses are covered in the state budget itself. First of all, this puts economic operators in a very unequal position, since some of these water licences or concessions are paid and others are not. I'd like to ask you another question. The European Commission is also aware of some of our irregularities in this area and has already pointed out the Republic of Slovenia to this segment, to this weakness and is preparing a criminal action. I'm asking: Will this response, which you are actively preparing at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, satisfy the European Commission and thus mitigate the criticism that it is also actually an illicit aid to economic operators in this area? Will this answer satisfy us to the extent that Slovenia avoids the financial penalties of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? Minister Dejan Židan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u40	The European Commission rightly requires that the legal acts we adopt often, even if we so wish and not under certain directives or regulations of the European Union, then we also implement them. Whether the European Commission will react or not to the Court of Auditors’ opinion that State aid was unlawful – this is not the opinion of the European Commission – is the Court of Auditors’ opinion. Together with the Office of the Government for Legislation and also with informal discussions with the Court of Auditors, we agree on a solution that is in fact already agreed and will be forwarded within a period of time to the Court of Auditors, as well as through the Government, also externally. I believe that this will be sufficient to seek to remedy the potential damage that has been done in recent years. However, I would like to emphasise something else – it does not matter if this area was once under the Ministry of Environment and Space and in 2012 it moved to the area of the Ministry responsible for agriculture and the environment. The fact is, we have a system that is complex and we need to make it transparent by the end of this year. The Court of Auditors has asked us to prepare an economic model for the calculation of damage or the counter-return resulting from the use of natural resources, which is the source of water use. What needs to be said here is such a demanding model that, according to our known data, none of the European countries could produce it. But because this is the Court of Auditors' request, we will go this way. I believe that this, as well as the remaining open issues that we have between the European Commission and Slovenia, will be resolved in a timely manner and in a way to reduce the danger that Slovenia faces because of the conflicts that the European administration has with the environmental administration in Slovenia. We have agreed with the Commissioner responsible, Mr Potočnik, on a work plan. It must be said, however, that the number of conflicts – a few weeks ago there were 30 of them, of which 13 were formal, remained informal, mostly in the form of pilots. The aim is to change the trend, to reduce the number of conflicts, of course within a year, six months or two years. But the idea of coming to 0 is impossible, so we want to reduce and reverse the trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you, Minister, for supplementing your response. Before I give him the floor to answer the next question, I would like to inform you that Mr Roman Jakič will not be present at the 1st item of the agenda between 13.50 and 2.30 p.m. We turn to the question raised at the 13th meeting of the Assembly, namely, Dr László Göncz raised a question regarding the maintenance of meliorated areas. He asked the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mags. Diane Jedhan. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Ministry is well aware of the operation of this system in Pomurje through the public service of the management and maintenance of hydromeliorative systems, i.e. the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, and I estimate that the maintenance system over the annual dose is adequate for the maintenance and regular functioning of the system. It should be said that this type of working method has been implemented in Pomurje since 2004 with an intermediate interruption in 2005 and 2006, when the dose has not been delivered. About 90 hydromeliorative systems are recorded in the Pomurje area and 43 systems are included through the public service, including the melioration of Mala Krka-Domanyševci, mentioned by the Member. maintenance in Pomura is currently carried out in this way. On the basis of the 2012 maintenance programmes, the ground maintenance works were fully carried out on 15 hydromeliorative systems and partially on 15. In the rest, the work was suspended due to wet, long winter and will be carried out by the end of May 2013 and for some hydromeliorative systems, as agreed under the 2013 maintenance programme. Some individual hydromeliorative systems in the Pmurje area are not included in the annual management and maintenance programmes, since in the past they were found not to have been carried out according to projects, not in operation or in the field of interest for their maintenance via the dosage system. The main works carried out on hydromeliorative systems to the extent available are: grass baskets, sieves, ditch cleaning and road repair. The resources available are intended only for melioration ditches, which are often insufficient for all necessary maintenance work. An additional cause for occasional flooding may also be irregular primary drainage, watercourses. The maintenance of watercourses in which the melioration ditches are leaked shall be financed from the water fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you, Minister for your answers. The question will be completed by Mr László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Jew, thank you so much for this part of the answer! I understand from this that the Ministry assesses that the implementation of the programme is appropriate. Based on the views of the citizens who have sought me out in the last parliamentary forums, even in Domanjševci, as you have already mentioned, I just need to ask two more questions. If the continuation of the activity is carried out by the end of May, the situation may be better, but at this point it is noted that, above all, there are some systemic shortcomings in the Pomurje area due to delays or a lack of money before it approaches the extreme north-east part of the country. If so, you must be evaluated by the Ministry or profession. So once again, I ask the question: Is it a systemic flaw that most of the time is missing the precisely mentioned northeast part of Pomur? If so, then the matter is not as good as you presented in your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u45	I give the word "magic." To dean jedan to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u46	Dear Member, I propose this: the fact is that, due to unusual weather conditions, maintenance works have withdrawn by the end of May, so that we can assess what has been done and what has not been done at the end of May. At the same time, I propose that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which is the manager this time, should work not be carried out; the Fund also has the task of exercising control. If we find that the matter is not resolved or resolved in a different way than in the interests of agriculture and people, we will propose or see if the system needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you for complementing the answer. We are moving on to the next question that Mr Zvonko Lah raised at the 13th meeting in connection with the conservation of small farms in connection with the cultivation of agricultural land. The Minister for Agriculture and the Environment will be responsible again. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Slovenia has also negotiated much for small farms through a change in European agricultural policy, which will start in the next 7-year period, which is actually already here. An important measure for our farms is a special system for small farms that will allow small farms to avoid over-administrative administration, which is unfortunately a major feature of modern agriculture in the European Union, and will be able to carry out their work on the basis of 7-year contracts on the basis of a kind of flat-rate. Some checks and cross compliance will also be avoided, while certain tasks will have to be carried out in the contract. At this point, the proposal – namely, that agricultural policy and the relevant regulations will finally agree and adopt by the end of the 6th month of this year – is such that farms will fall into the system by up to EUR 1000 250 per annual direct payment, which is more than 20% of the farms. This is how we estimate that, as far as administration is concerned, these farms will make life significantly easier. Another time. At the Ministry, we are also aware of the sector's business disconnections. That is why we launched a call for business integration across sectors at the Ministry. We are now assessing whether this invitation to tender has been successful or not. If the evaluation is such that the invitation to tender has been successful, we will continue with such calls. At the same time, I would like to inform you that this year, and this will also have an impact on the functioning of small farms and on the maintenance of agricultural areas, when we calculate the rest of the money from the successful rural development programme and this year give priority to three types of calls. The first call will be for additional complementary activities on farms that allow a wide range of small farms a future in this area. In these calls it must be said that 16.6% of Slovenian farms have already found a business solution to their farming activity. Secondly, we will repeat the call for business integration and as a third for some additional works in the area of forest and wood, which is also an opportunity to solve some problems. As far as planned surface training is concerned, with state money, it is only necessary to say that we had the money available and that the National Assembly, by amending the Agricultural Lands Act, had taken it away. The aim is no longer to raise enough money to be available so that the country can make a significant contribution to the training of agricultural land where we assess that this is useful for Slovenian food production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zvonko Lah will submit a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that excessive administration, even for smaller farmers, will be eliminated in the future, but my question has also gone in the direction of whether the ministry will have any policy in the field of organised sales of small market surpluses. Indeed, some calls will be made for these small farmers to become self-initiated. I don't think that's enough. We are aware that our average farms have been slightly over 6 hectares, that the average age of farmers is around 60 years and that most of these farms in the past, a few decades ago, have been engaged in livestock farming, with the production of milk and meat, and that most of them have started to leave farming only for their own self-sustainment, and have left poorer agricultural land to cultivation because it is not paid and cannot be processed. In recent years, I think we have lost most agricultural land, much more than by building. While there would be some money to make up for the change in agricultural land, we know that investments have stopped and that these fears of building up are not much longer. For this reason, I miss that the Ministry would have a policy on how to sell these small market surpluses on agricultural markets or on organised sales with traders, as large traders prefer to import produce of less quality and domestic and quality crops are not to be sold.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? I give my word to the minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u52	The Ministry of Agriculture has a number of powers to regulate how the agricultural area is regulated. He has important powers to ensure that the money we can use comes to Slovenia. I think he's doing a useful job of doing this. Last year, I think, through the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, 350 million euros have been allocated to the sector. The Ministry does not have the opportunity to participate in business organisation. In some other times, this was possible, and in the present times, although this agriculture has been interventionally regulated, there is no possibility of significant business intervention, except in a few small ways. One way is to help with the money of Slovenia and the European Union to unite. That's what we did. Another option is to help build chains that allow the purchase of certain market surpluses – and what may be even more important – to establish dedicated production. Here, honourable Member, I would like to inform you that on Friday, a few days ago, I attended a re-meeting of the cereals chain, which was in some way made years ago on the initiative of this ministry, and now we want to activate it more. The agreement reached there is that this year all wheat growing in Slovenia will also be bought for food production in Slovenia – only some models are still being sought. We, as the Ministry, also support this. This year, we will be more proactive in helping to sell agricultural products with some targeted actions, where we will want our citizens and citizens to learn something that they know in some countries and not yet in Slovenia – at a time when citizens and citizens reach out for Slovenian food, not only to benefit Slovenian farmers, craftsmen and industry, but because they allow economic activity to remain in Slovenia, they benefit the national budget in a way that they can provide public education, public health and so on. We'll work in this area. We also expect a lot from the new European agricultural policy. The fact that small farms will be exempted from this terrible burden of administration, which has scared a lot of farms so much that they have stopped farming, will be successful and this success will also be achieved because Slovenia has insisted so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you, Minister, for supplementing your response. We turn to the next question raised by Mr Franz Breznik in connection with the rehabilitation of beaches at the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister for Agriculture and the Environment will be responsible. Diane Jedhan. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Answer the first question. Initially, the beaches that have emerged in the last two months in the whole of Eastern Slovenia are due to the soaking of the soil due to the spring break, as well as the floods that hit the wider territory of Slovenia last November, and by no means a long winter. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be 18. 4. 2013 adopted the flood mitigation programme, which was held in November 2012, for 2013. Under the adopted programme totalling €22.2 million, EUR 6.2 million is provided to address the consequences of floods on municipal infrastructure and to implement geotechnical measures to secure goods, of which €1.2 million is allocated to municipalities in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Accidents. Under those resources, funds will be allocated to individual municipalities for the implementation of geotechnical measures, namely the rehabilitation of beaches, with the advantage of damaged or threatened facilities intended to stay and transport at damaged road infrastructure facilities in order to prevent direct danger or excessive damage occurring below. Of course, the funds will be intended only for injuries detected in the assessment of damage following the floods of November last year. What's it gonna be like this year? When we are talking about the rehabilitation of beaches resulting from the effects of the November floods, it is important to note that individual rehabilitations are already under way or will be carried out under the available resources of the recovery programme as early as this year, for the rehabilitation of beaches launched this year and not covered by the damage assessment following the floods of November 2012 or earlier, I regret to note that the 2013 budget of the Republic of Slovenia did not provide for available financial resources. However, as far as I am aware, the balance of the budget will work, I call on you, honourable Members, to think about this disaster at the time of the rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you, Minister for your answers. Mr Franz Breznik will be asked to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister in part for the answer, although I do not agree. I have been a lot in these areas, especially in the Slovenian Gorica. In Slovenian Gorica, as part of northeastern Slovenia, we have over 100 beaches that have been launched. I couldn't say that they could carry these resources from the flood because the floods didn't affect them. It is the hilly higher-lying areas of some farms where these reptiles were triggered so that I could not say that floods in northeastern Slovenia had a decisive impact. My opinion and the opinion of the experts who have looked at these areas is that it is often a matter of stable areas where there has been no impact in the past, and it is the result of a long-term winter, and it is not a matter of inappropriate human intervention in the space. This is a worrying situation, and I am particularly concerned that the government has not reserved funds in the budget. I would ask the Minister to make sure, in the context of the rebalancing, that he remembers these areas. It is also a matter of areas where, at the moment, they do not yet threaten as many bianian or infrastructure facilities, and the means by which these areas can be rehabilitated are inadequately smaller than when these facilities are at risk. I would ask if the Government would really take care of these farms, these areas, because the matter is worrying – it is the biggest natural disaster, which is a few times larger than all the floods in Slovenia so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you. In order to complete my answer, I give the floor to the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you. Dear Member, we are both aware that the current Government has not been preparing the 2012 budget, so that it is not the one who has not reserved the funds for this purpose, but after a quick assessment, given the current data we have, that would require 4 million euros to do the most necessary work in this year's area for the rehabilitation of small and medium-sized beaches. This will be a proposal from the Ministry responsible for the environment and agriculture. At this point, I cannot say how successful I will be with the Government, but it is the authority and decision-making in the hands of you, Members and Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you for complementing the answer. Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mag. Dejan Židan will answer the question raised at the 13th meeting of the assembly, and Mr Janez Ribič will put it to address the consequences of the flood. Mr. Secretary, please, you have your word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, there are a few questions. I hope enough time is available. First question – how is the provision of cohesion funds for the construction of the Wurberk-Zgornji Duplek anti-flood embankment? The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment gave a full role to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology on 29 March 2013. In view of the fact that the process for selecting operators in the final phase could begin with parts immediately after the building permit has been obtained and if no complications in the process of selecting the contractor and obtaining the construction permit are allowed, the operational parts could start in June of this year. The expected completion of the works is in mid-2015, which is, of course, essential for us to be able to repay the funds by the end of 2015 from the European budget. The next question was: What about the means to remedy the consequences of the flood in November 2012? Following the floods on 4 and 7 November 2012, damage to water infrastructure was reviewed for the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The estimated value added tax-free damage amounted to EUR 194 million. For the Drava River alone, 227 deposits of €69 million were made without VAT, not taking into account the damage on the Formin Channel because it was 28 million. The estimate of the resources to remedy the consequences of natural disasters on water infrastructure facilities for the period 2011 to 2017 amounts to €41 million. On 18 April this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a flood mitigation programme worth €22.2 million, all it needs to be stressed is that the former government has taken another measure of €4.7 million immediately after the floods. Taking into account the project documentation by the affected municipalities, the first priorities in the municipalities would require funding for joint design services worth more than €14 million. The technical services will carry out an additional selection of the urgency of implementing the measures and in May call on the municipalities to prepare the application and, consequently, to sign an appropriate agreement on co-financing the implementation of the rehabilitation. Allow me to give you an operational answer for the Duplek Congregation, which was your question. The funds already earmarked are: Drava watercourse, Sipina in Drava stream under Trčovo and at the right bank between Duplek and Dvorjani in the value of the rehabilitation of EUR 700 000, Korenska stream, this is the Root Stream between the Zitečki stream and some of the Maribor-Vurberk road worth EUR 20 000 and the Mlinska stream worth EUR 20 000. Next question – How will the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment address the systematic management of small and medium-sized beaches, and how will local communities be involved? At a meeting with representatives of both associations, both the Community and the Union and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue, it was agreed to set up a special working group to prepare, in May, an operational procedural instruction on the conduct of the competent authorities in the event of the emergence of terrestrial beaches. At the same time, allow me to stress once again that a specific budget line for the rehabilitation of medium- and small-scale reptiles has been established within the Ministry of the Environment and Space in 2006, and currently there is no money in this item. This is also what I have told Mr Breznik, that our assessment is that we would need €4 million here to remedy the most urgent things, those that are most in favour of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you, Minister for your answers. The supplement will be requested by Mr. Janez Ribič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you for your words, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your extensive response, Mr. Minister, I am pleased. I'm glad things are moving at least with regard to the floodgate. As a Member, I have been reminding myself of the urgency of its construction for several years. Unfortunately, my warnings were not taken seriously, even though all of us living there knew that one day the worst would happen. And it did last November. Therefore, as soon as possible the construction of the embankment is necessary and also the cleaning of the Drava stream with tributaries, as you said. At the municipality of Duplek, according to my information, while still waiting for a good €75 000 of intervention funds from the state budget, which the Government has already earmarked in early March, this has not yet been realized. Furthermore, the municipality does not have instructions on how to advise citizens about the increased value of heavy metals on agricultural land brought to the fields by increased water. With regard to the beaches, because this was my question, the situation is even worse, because their rehabilitation is a long-term process that requires constant monitoring. Therefore, in my opinion and also in the opinion of experts, the issue of reptiles needs to be addressed in terms of causing damage and the risk of further crawling and not only in terms of the damage that is currently occurring. That's why I'm asking: When will the Duplek Congregation receive the necessary funds to remedy the effects of the November floods? How should citizens proceed in the event of an increase in heavy metals on agricultural land? When will the beach rehabilitation begin in the municipality? You have calculated correctly yourself, at least EUR 4 million per year would be needed if you wanted to maintain and monitor reptiles. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you. The answer will be answered by the mag once again. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u64	Dear Member, although we already have some answers at operational level, I do not have them, and some are being prepared by the end of May. If you agree, I would commit myself to sending you all the answers in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo, will answer questions, first of all Mrs Mateja Pučnik, on changes in secondary education. The question was raised at the 13th meeting of the assembly. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u66	Mr President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member! Your question was made up of two parts, so I will answer both. First of all, you were interested in enrolling in secondary, vocational, and vocational schools and in high school, and how things are going on about this entry. Secondly, what is happening in the area of changes in secondary education. I will not go – you know how things are going, so I will not explain it to you in particular. I will only say where we are now; the candidates had the opportunity to transfer their applications to another school by 10 May if they felt that this was more appropriate for them or to better realize their educational potential in this way. By the 15th of May, last week, the holy schools had provided us with possible proposals for restrictions on entries and requests for additional departments. It is now the Ministry's task to take a final look at and decide on any additional sections or restrictions on the description by 30 May. On the Ministry's website, we published a table where all candidates and their parents can see where there are still places to sign up and so on. As far as the registration numbers themselves are concerned, this is the case; this year we have 22 000 600 places of invitation to tender, for the entry of newcomers and for the news there are currently 18 000 721 candidates and candidates. The lower vocational education programmes have 370 candidates, secondary vocational education 3 000 470, secondary vocational education programmes 7 000 935 and high school programmes 6 000 946. If you compare with last year's numbers, you will find that in all programs, except in high school, interest has increased, so to speak, over the thumb, and the number of candidates for high school has dropped slightly. That's part of the answer. However, the second part of the answer concerns legislative changes. At the moment, the Ministry has a job or we're preparing three things. Some are amendments and additions to the Law on High Schools; others are amendments and additions to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education and the Law on the Slovenian Framework of Qualifications. I estimate that the current Slovenian Qualifications Framework Act is the longest and that with that law we can get to the National Assembly as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you, Minister for Answers. The next question to which the Minister for Education Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo, will answer, was raised at the 13th meeting of the National Assembly by Mr Samo Bevk, concerning the Nordic Centre of Planica. Mr. Secretary, you have another word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u68	Mr President, respectable and respected! As far as the Nordic centre of Planica is concerned, first allow me one pure personal observation. This is the work of my ancestors, my predecessors, and I hope that, not only I hope, even after all assurances, my great personal joy will be realized this year and the second year. As you know, at the end of 2012, we received a building permit for the service facility Caplja, youth and children's jumpers, the lift and the lounger. Since we were in the middle of the season, of course, it was pointless, senseless before the summer of March in Planica to go to construction operations at that time. Right after that, after the final event in Planica, we went to construction work and I can say that I have been, unofficially, at least twice in Planica and I am very pleased to see that construction works are making great progress since then. The expected conclusion of these works is October 2013. As far as the airport is concerned, we must wait for the new FIS rules to be adopted in early June 2013. At that time, it will be a reconstruction of the giant Gorišek brothers. From then to November we will be working intensively on this project, and the construction operation will work intensively, because November is the last time we have to be, as it is called home-made, from concrete, because in November snow will snow in Planica. From there we will do all the rest of the work, so I expect this giant to live at the age of 80, so in spring 2014, I think in her most beautiful image. I think this will be the most beautiful way to mark the 80-year-old giant brother Gorišek. Let me mention one more thing. In parallel, the construction of the so-called Running Centre will also begin this summer, but it will last a little longer, so that we do not expect it to be completed in spring 2014. We expect that the construction of a running centre in Planica will be completed in summer 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you, Minister for your answers. Would you like a request to complete the answer? Mr. Bevk, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! I thank the Minister for his answer to my question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. I am pleased that this project continues successfully. Big projects are taking some time, so during this period a number of sports ministers have become involved, and I am pleased that this project will be completed, I hope, within your mandate. Next year, as has been said, we will also celebrate the 80th anniversary of the Great Jumper, then one of the biggest ones built. It was designed by Stanko Bludek. I am pleased that the ministry will actively participate in the celebration. Stanko Bludek was a very important designer, sports worker and athlete, by which the highest awards for sport, the Bloudk Prize, are rightly named. And then there's my question. In 2019 the world championship in Nordic disciplines was to be held in Slovenia. So I want to know: How is the Ministry involved in this major project? I know that you have given your consent to submit this application to the Ski Association of Slovenia. I hope that then the economic and other situation in the country will be such that we will be able to organise this championship with dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you. Dr. Jernej Pikalo, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. First, it's self-correction. I think I got stuttered in the middle of something. The giant brothers of Gorišek are not 80 years old, but she is Bludkov's giant, so it will be clear for the record as well. As for the World Cup — yes, the government has given its consent to the Ski Connection. We had a meeting with them. All I can say at this point is that I was informed of who the competition was or who the potential competition was in the Nordic World Championships. I can say that I also hope that the economic and other conditions will be better, and that we will be able to make this Nordic World Cup extremely good, because Planica is traditionally an extremely good organizer of such competitions. The activities in this regard shall be carried out as planned. We work, I think it's proactive, but it will, I can say this after what was entrusted to me by the Ski Association, which is some competition for the Nordic World Cup in 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you, too, Minister, for the complementary reply. Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will answer the question of mag. Mark Pogačnik in connection with the opening of the consular office. The question was also raised at the 13th meeting of the assembly. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much, President. Thank you for asking, too. First of all, I'd like to make it clear that we're opening honorary consulates where we don't have embassies. It should be borne in mind that Slovenia is a small country with a small network of diplomatic and consular representations, and that is why we are helping ourselves in such a way as to cover certain parts of the world with so-called honourable consulates. These honorary consulates are run by an honorary consul, who is usually a citizen of the host country. It is usually a matter of respectable persons who must not be punished and who enjoy trust and respect. It is usually a matter of former government officials or economics, and we are employing these types. Given that this does not generate practically any costs, it is a well-established way to better cover the diplomatic network. I must say that the Honorary Consulate does not have the status of an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, does its work free of charge and must provide, as usual, suitable premises in the capital. The cost of the State of Slovenia is that it must provide a sign indicating that it is an honorary consulate, a flag and certain official acts having an appropriate head of the Republic of Slovenia. Why do we need honorary consuls? What exactly is the content of their work? In particular, it is a matter of strengthening political and economic cooperation, including cultural and scientific cooperation, through honourable consuls, but it is very welcome when a Slovenian citizen or citizen in that country encounters a problem. It is important to know that Trinidad and Tobago is precisely – it is the tourist countries that are there in the Caribbean area, and it can, I don't know, get hurt at the time of the holiday, to the point of death. In this case, we have someone in the receiving country who can take care of such Slovenian citizens. Even in the case of, I don't know, crimes or even detention, the prison can be contacted directly by the Honorary Consul. Why did we choose Trinidad and Tobago? There we do not have an embassy; these countries are among the more developed in the Caribbean region; they are members of the Association of Caribbean States, the so-called Organization of American States, the Community of Latin American, Caribbean States. That's how this country takes up certain positions. I must say that the Honorary Consulate opens on the basis of an appropriate decision of the Government. Such a decision has been taken by the Government to ensure that such an honourable consulate can operate. However, I must say that we have recently been pushing for the opening of honorary consulates, not only in remote places, but also where we have a greater economic interest. For example, in Turkey we have recently opened four new honourable consulates, because there is a great interest in the Slovenian economy. Given that we are a small country, that this is linked to costs, the form of honourable consulates is appropriate, especially in terms of costs, because it does not practically represent them for the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, mag. It's a cakemaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u76	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I would certainly like to point out that it is probably a slight surprise to open this consulate in this Caribbean country, Trinidad and Tobago. In particular, given that, as you yourself said, the purpose of these consulates is to contribute to some economic growth in the economic crisis, to the opening of new markets for the Slovenian economy. That is why I would appeal to the Government to continue with these forms, because this is a low cost for the state, and it is likely that it can get significantly more of this. But it seems more appropriate for these consulates to open up in some other countries where, I think, some gray zones, especially where the Slovenian economy could achieve significantly more than in the Caribbean. It also seems to me that the countries of the Middle East are the biggest problem at a given time. We know there's a rich economy there, it's an interest. The last case, for example, is a visit by the Kuwaiti delegation to Rogaška, which we certainly welcome. But we do know that the nearest consulate or diplomatic representation in Egypt is. So I would really ask or suggest that he make sure that at least the Honorary Consulate opens up in the Middle East, perhaps even the embassy. And if it's not a secret: Who is this honorary consul in the Caribbean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you for the supplementary question. The Honorary Consul is Mr. Om Prakasha Lalle. I must say, I welcome your initiative. We're already doing an analysis to open an embassy in the Gulf. Here there are several countries and the analysis will show which is most appropriate; Kuwait, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, especially because there is a great interest in the Slovenian economy. You also mentioned that we are covering from Egypt — indeed, from Cairo. That is why we are also thinking about strengthening our presence in Africa, especially on the basis of the legacy balance, because as a successor country from the former Yugoslavia, we will also gain some space in Africa. There's a chance that we can train these spaces to actually have an embassy there, or it can be sold and located somewhere in Africa. We're very interested in Central Africa. So that's where we're thinking. This will, however, be covered by this inheritance, so that this should not represent any specific budget costs. As far as consulates are concerned, I must say that we are also considering whether it would be possible for the honourable Consulate to grant any additional powers, but we are also bound by the Vienna Convention. But that's what we're studying. In particular, it would be good if we could have some powers regarding the visa system, but we need to study these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cuffer, will answer the question of mag. Mr Andrej Shirtzl in connection with the merger of the tax and customs services.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. At the Ministry of Finance, we coordinate the various content of the proposal with the ministries and with the public concerned, in particular with trade unions, regarding the proposal for the Financial Administration Act. At the same time, we are also preparing draft regulations which, together with the laws, form a whole that can regulate both the substantive area and the organizational, systematisation itself and everything that is necessary. The objective remains to unite the two services with 1 January 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go, mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much. This issue has been raised mainly because the previous government has already drawn up the law, has also adopted it and, as I know, a working group has also been set up, I think, two years ago. The fundamental issue here is that, in particular, because Croatia enters the European Union and because border controls, customs controls at the border will be removed – this means that certain customs work will be unnecessary and, on the other hand, we have a demand or a shortage of tax inspectors and this merger would mean greater efficiency on the one hand, probably also human resources and organisational consolidation, which in other words means greater efficiency with the same or fewer employees and impact on the state budget. In any event, it would be possible for a certain centralisation or concentration of individual parts within this service, given that the customs administration is already carrying out certain parts of the tax area. In this regard, I am interested in: How do individual procedures in this regard run? What effects are envisaged if this is to be 1 January 2014? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you for the clarification, for the additional questions. The aim of this law and the sub-legislative rules that we are preparing is to increase the efficiency and rationality of public administration in the field of tax and customs administration in particular. The aim is to establish such an organisation, a financial service, which will allow tax revenue to be collected in a way that is as efficient and rational as possible. One way of thinking is to strengthen mobile units that are already operating in the customs area and that part of their energy will be able to turn into a tax area and into the pursuit and limitation of the grey economy and work in black. The second thing a merger allows and in which direction we are thinking is the unification of administrative and supervisory procedures. Now two companies are doing this, then a joint service would work, allowing for a more comprehensive and effective view of the whole matter. The third point I would point out is the pooling of official records and other databases maintained separately by both authorities. By combining these two records and data, it will be possible to take more effective action and to prepare a matter without work on the ground. Finally, it is also an important aspect of the rationality itself and of the cost aspect of the business. As mentioned above, pooling can achieve better results with lower costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Ms Sonja Ramšak's question regarding the organisation of the regional information centres is to be answered by the Minister of Defence, Mr Roman Jakič, but he has announced his absence or apologized, so this question is referred to the next meeting, where the Minister will answer your question orally, Mrs Ramšak. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u86	Honourable Chairman or Vice-President of the National Assembly! I would like to ask that the Minister of Defence may answer this question in writing. In fact, at the previous meeting he was absent and, if possible, I would also ask for a written answer to the question raised by the Member States because it is an important both organisational and professional work of the Protection and Rescue Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. If I understand you correctly, then the Minister should answer in writing and not orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much. Mr Sam Omerzel, Minister of Infrastructure and Space, will answer Mr Andrej Couch's question on the Roadway Action Plan for Drazenci-Grushkovje. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u88	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr Chuš, thank you for the question and at the same time thank you for your understanding of the previous session. About your question. I agree that with the entry from the Croatian side into Slovenia and the European Union along the highway, we will lead to one section, which in some ways represents a narrow throat. I agree with you that there are quite a few arguments in this area, why this section needs to be completed as soon as possible. I agree that one of the most important aspects is security, where highway sections are incomparably safer than what we have today. The second aspect, which is equally important, is the very reputation of our country and also the profession, which has already begun to warn us that a certain part of traffic is being diverted across Hungary because of this section and that in some way we are losing some of our traffic on our motorways. Current activities are on schedule. At this point, the construction of PZI projects is foreseen by the end of 2013. PICs and land acquisitions run in two stages. The activities themselves have been separated precisely because construction works will begin as soon as possible, so as soon as the activities are completed in two stages, the first stage of construction will begin. The construction licence for the first stage was planned in 2014 and April 2014. The second stage is planned for May 2015. On this basis, we expect the construction of the first phase to be completed in 2016 and the construction of the second phase in 2017, in the second half. At the moment, geodetic works, border treatments on the route are under way, the purchase of land and discussions with owners are under way. Let me also commend the fact that we have acquired €3 million in European funding for the design. Fast road Ptuj-Omoz. In this area, placement has been delayed for two reasons. In the northern part of Ptuj Lake we have a social inadmissibility and in the southern part we have a Natura 2000, which will probably be much more resilient than the first reason, so in this area we will propose or continue activities along the northern part of Ptuj Lake, which we believe will be a dialogue with the local community that will bear fruit and that we will be able to continue our work on this basis. With regard to the general situation, however, we have several reasons why the situation is relatively poor at the moment, especially in other sections of Ormož – a number of construction works have been halted due to the difficult construction situation and the collapse of businesses that have been working in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. You want a supplement, Mr. Hear? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u90	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for this information. I would really like to draw attention to the fact that the inhabitants of the Lower Podravje on certain road sections, including motorways, have been waiting for more than ten, twenty years and I have the feeling that we have the inhabitants of the Lower Podravje with an inappropriately lower development index of the region and consequently the standards of life, while the centre is developing a worse experience with state management. That's why I thank you for those answers. I also thank you for your reply on the road Ptuj-Ommož. The last time I spoke about the road Ptuj-Topnja Radgon, which runs through Podvinc, was there too. I was just driving from Little Moravc to Ptuj yesterday and I was a little afraid of what would happen to the car if I said so in a joke – even though they say there is some truth in every joke. However, I do have one specific question. On the basis of your answer, I can conclude that the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section will be classified among your priorities in the field of road infrastructure. So: Where will this highway section be classified between priorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. As far as priority is concerned, I must say that work is ongoing in this section. At this point, we are in the land-purchase phase, which means that we are taking this section very seriously. As Minister, I will give all the support to this section, precisely because of the facts that I have stated that this section ends and that we have a connection with neighbouring Croatia – in some ways this will be all the more important with Croatia's entry into the European Union. However, to place projects in this area as a priority on the scale – this would be difficult to define, but it is certainly the project that is being implemented and will have all the necessary attention of our ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with answers to questions that have remained unanswered from the previous meeting. We turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members who have been asked by ministers and ministers for this meeting of the National Assembly. The first question will be raised by Mr Zvonko Černač, Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present, especially to the Minister of Finance! For the last 20 years, Slovenia has financed a large part of its development, i.e. the investment part of its investment in knowledge and everything else, through debt. Regrettably, she also financed current spending through her debt. Statistics say that, from 1990 to 2004, in 14 years, the debt of the state budget increased to around €7 billion, during the first Janshea government for a billion additional euros, during only three years of the Pahora government, this debt practically doubled from €8 billion to €16 billion, says €8 billion, and now, in the poor two months, the debt has risen again, with an additional $3 billion and a half of US dollars in debt. The number is approaching or almost over €20 billion already. This is such a figure, which means that the average citizen of the Republic of Slovenia is in debt ten times more than the one in charge of a former citizen who has been in a very difficult financial situation and has thus been in economic squandering. Today, the President of the Government said that this new debt would mainly be spent on current spending, on repayment of loans and on recapitalisation of banks, which taxpayers have already done several times. For all these reasons, commitments for all these loans are increasing and some more than €200 million in 2008 and 2009 are rapidly approaching the value of €8 million per year. In this mandate they will obviously reach a billion euros a year, it is said only to service interest, which means more than 10% of the revenue of the state budget. It is therefore very important that we also take care of reducing public spending in all areas, but the current government, as we see from the measures presented, is giving the greatest emphasis to higher tax burdens, as it plans around five times more inflows from this title than from the rationalisation of public spending. That's why I want to know: What was the implementation of the budget during the first three months of this year? What is the Minister's assessment of the additional revenues from higher VAT in the second half of the year after the higher VAT was to be introduced? What would be the estimate of the additional revenue of the State budget from the new real estate tax in 2014, should it be introduced as from 1 January? I want information on this: How much less would interest be paid in the 10-year period for the last loan if they were in debt on ratings as they were in force in January this year?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Minister Chufer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u96	Dear Member, Mr. Blackach! Thank you very much for your four questions. In the first three months of this year, EUR 1.7 billion of revenue was pluralised, while expenditure was realized at 2.4 billion. This included a deficit of €700 million in the first three months, which must be added to the deficit of 1.2% of GDP for the conversion of Coco bonds. As far as value added tax is concerned, you know that we have proposed two raises, raising the overall rate from 20% to 22% and raising the rate by 1%, from 8.5 to 9.5%. We estimate that the revenues from this title will amount to EUR 250 million. Specifically this year, given that we are already in the middle of the year, this means that there will be around €100 million of revenue from this tax in the state budget and €150 million in the following year. As far as real estate tax is concerned. The revenue from this resource is estimated at €480 million for 2014. In view of the fact that one part of this tax is used to compensate the current NUSZ compensation, this means that about 240 million goes directly into the budget and the rest goes directly to the municipalities. As regards the last question concerning the costs of indebtedness, I would point out, or I will say, that for every 100 basis points, 1% of the point per billion new debt, amounts to EUR 10 million additional interest per year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you so much for those answers. In view of the latter part of the response, we could all come to a conclusion and agree with some conclusion from many that raising VAT would not be necessary if, in other areas, we acted a little differently and more rationally. If we took advantage of more favourable periods of indebtedness, it is said that if we did not use reckless statements to cause panic in international markets, only this difference, which, as you said, is estimated at around 600 to 800 million in ten years, would allow us not to raise VAT, or that we will not cut into other areas as harshly as we will have to cut now. The estimate that in the second half of the year, there would be more than 100 million inflows and 250 per year, is likely to be from a mathematical perspective, from a mathematical operation. However, if you look at the realisation you spoke about in the first three months of this year, you will find that in March the VAT revenues have plummeted dramatically by around €90 million. They're almost halved, which means our consumption is falling, and mathematics isn't working here. These inflows can be even less than or equal to that where consumption does not fall or increase, which suggests that it would probably be necessary to increase and not reduce this spending, so I understand your predecessor, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, who recently found that raising VAT is not a good measure, but above all it is not necessary, and analyzed how and how this same effect could be achieved by other measures that would not reduce consumption, consumption and thereby jeopardise the mathematics you have announced. I don't understand this part either. You said 480 million property taxes. You've declared a pardon somewhere. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] After the VURS valuation, all assets amount to € 140 billion. [[...]] So, the bill points to 140 million, not 480 million. Now we know that NUSZ is 190. I would like to ask for further clarifications on [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Minister, we're asking for further clarifications.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you. Certainly the most appropriate measure we can take in a situation such as that of Slovenia, which is a small, open economy, is certainly a greater emphasis on cost reduction and public consumption than one of the elements of economic cost. This is one of the goals of this government. As you know, we have set ourselves a two-thirds ratio on the expenditure side, one-third on the revenue side, but the situation is such that everything cannot be done solely on the income side, so it is also necessary to find activities on the income side, says higher taxes. Of all the taxes we can choose from, VAT is the one most appropriate especially in a country such as Slovenia, which is small, open. If we choose between taxes that are more cost-effective, such as a tax crisis than a tax that is more VAT, in fact, this tax ratio is much more favourable in terms of economic growth and competitiveness. This may be part of the explanation. The second part explained that, in practice, VAT is significantly less elastic or VAT revenue is significantly less elastic than is always estimated, and this is also shown in various cases. It is also evident in the fact that most countries in the European Union have already accepted VAT hikes and that Slovenia has been one of the few countries which, since the crisis occurred, has not raised its rates and has not taken advantage of what others have done long ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you so much for those answers. I did not get some answers, especially why the invoice does not match the future real estate tax, where according to the official records of the 140 billion property in real estate, the one-propass rate would be 140 million in this logic, which is significantly less than now the only compensation for the use of the building land, which is approximately 190 million euros per year – and you were talking about the 480 million euro inflow. This means that, if this is so, the levels will be different and that the burden of this title, in particular for natural persons, will increase significantly. I therefore propose that, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, a discussion be held on the response of the distinguished Minister at the next meeting of the National Assembly. In this debate, it would only be good to hear some findings from other countries that probably did not go to increase the tax burden at a time when their consumption was falling. I said earlier that only from VAT in the first three months of this year about €90 million has been collected less than in the first three months of last year, which means that our consumption is falling significantly. Under such circumstances, raising the tax burden is a serious risk that the effect or recovery from this title will be significantly lower than is expected from the mathematical formula. In last quarter and the first quarter of this year, the deficit was approximately the same, some 700 million euros, and yet, by the end of last year, only billions of euros had been approached by other measures. The second part of this debate is that the population will be burdened with increased taxes. The highest price will be paid by those with the lowest income, income, pensions, wages, because if we take from the statements made by the Prime Minister that VAT increases will at least affect the export economy, it means that the domestic economy and the population will be the most affected, meaning that most of this burden, estimated at EUR 250 to 300 million per year, will fall on the shoulders of those with the lowest income. Why the ones with the lowest income? Because they will pay the same tax, the same increase as those with higher benefits. A 400-euro pensioner will be charged in the same way as someone with 10,000 euros in salary, which is not good. If we divide the increase into 10,000 households, it means that the average household in this country alone will be burdened with about €400 to €500 per year, which is not a negligible amount, meaning that it will have an important impact on the reduction in consumption and thus distance us from the goal we are all working towards – to strengthen the economy and consumption. The former government is [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] something in the area of better government property management and I have information that in 2011, for example, the share of profits was €133 million, and last year almost €100 million more, €228 million and beyond. [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackwich. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. The next question for the Minister of Finance, Dr. Cuffer, is Mr. Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u104	Nice greeting, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Obviously, we are so busy with these financial issues that the issues that we have with our colleague, Chernač, are quite similar. I'm also interested in: How in this country, in the month of May, are we all really going to deal with this, bringing together these financial ends of our public finances? In the past year, the Government, in which I myself participated as a member of the government, has indeed done what you have already announced and written in the documents, the honourable Minister. We tried to make about two thirds of the savings or consolidation on the part of reducing expenditure, and on the other hand, we reached out to some taxes, especially excise taxes — environmental taxes were the ones we served last year. This year you are predicting a similar formula, but what is going on is what has been written and what will be discussed this week at the meeting of the National Assembly and which contain a national reform programme and a stability programme, the other way is to reduce the expenditure side and collect a set of tax footnotes that will try to push and squeeze the tax burden further. I am also interested in this part in the VAT issue, which, through the amendment of the Budget Implementation Act, we are considering this week: On what basis and methodology did these figures come to light, saying that there will be 100 million more in five months this year and 250 million more tax collected next year? Because we all know that the VAT increase is not just a linear calculation, but it also has consequences on the other hand; to reduce economic activity, to reduce people's purchasing power. It is likely that this assessment, which you have announced, is optimistic and gives us the fear that we will continue after this has not been achieved and that the social agreement with the unions is adopted for the end of next year, with new taxes and again with the shortest and easiest route – with taxes on the benefits of natural persons, as already announced. First of all, I want to know: Are you in favour of the methodology or the methodology you used to get these numbers so that 250 million more VAT will be collected at an annual level?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Chufer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much for this question. Dear Member, Mr. Bogovich! The assessment of the proposed value added tax increase by two absent points for the general level and one percentage point for the lower rate was based on the analysis. The key assumptions used are based on an assessment of the economic developments made by Umar this year. Facts will also be taken into account — in fact, 250 million revenues have been calculated. The calculation of the impact shall also take into account the feedback loop, which takes into account that the overall consumption is reduced as a result. We have noted that it is reduced by 0.2 to 0.3 percentage points. In this way it can be seen that it is not only linear overall that is assessed, but that some sensitivity to these numbers is taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogovich, if you'll excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u108	I would like to ask you a further question or ask you, given that your fellow resident, Mr Masten, prepared a presentation of his model at a time when the VAT rate was projected to rise. He claims to be one of the most modern and based on a number of model variables and has also taken into account everything that has been going on in the Slovenian macro since 1995. It is said that a dynamic approach has been taken. Its assessment at the one-stage projection at a lower and lower half rate was that these additional inflows would be 90 million. At the same time, the thesis was put that if the rate rose by two levels, the remuneration would not double again, but the factor was less than two. And then this number is essentially a haircut from what you predicted in the materials and now you've confirmed again on the basis of Umar's prediction. I'm asking here for your answer to what I've already asked in the first question. Given that agreement has been reached with the social partners at a lower level than was expected to be reached at those good 100 million Euros: Where are we going to get this savings? What are your intentions regarding the other taxes that you have already dealt with and in some way directed to us at a time when you were still deciding on the Government, which taxes will you impose on July 1st?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Minister, supplement the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much for this supplementary question. I hope and I think that the analyses that you have prepared or referred to are not accurate, because that means that we should raise the tax even more in order to get the same profit, but I don't think that's going to be necessary. As far as additional measures are concerned, how to ensure the right structure. We do not expect or plan additional taxes. Our focus will now focus in two directions. One is the additional measures on the income side and all that in the area of the grey economy and working in black. That's how most of our energy goes now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u112	Because the next meeting will be after the famous 29th of May, when we see whether we have convinced those who send them the numbers, or whether we will have to decide to sue someone to believe in us, as the Government now predicts, I propose that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in June, we discuss our tax policy – what we will plan in the next year or the next half year. I fully agree that the guidelines you have set out in the area of the grey economy and the under-priced taxes are the right direction. However, it is also right that in the National Assembly on measures in the field of taxation for our citizens and citizens, we should speak in advance so that we do not get a repeat of the situation, so that we can only be informed of the post-festum, first the opposition, then the entire National Assembly, and that there will be no discussion about this. I think it is so important that in these difficult times we really need to agree on how Slovenian public finances will stand up. To honestly pour in these debates, as we have said many times before, pure wine and to look the truth in the eye, as well as for citizens and citizens, we will first have the necessary confidence that then the measures we are planning will be easier to take. I therefore propose once again that the National Assembly speak on this at its next meeting and that a vote be taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. Now, here's another question for the Minister of Finance: I'm going to ask you a mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u114	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance, Mr. Chufer! The parties to the current coalition Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, DeSUS, National Gazette rejected two of the most important documents of the Slovenian State Holding Act in February, namely classification and guidelines. The main argument of all these parties was that the classification or guidelines were rejected because the sales criteria were not sufficiently clearly defined because the sales methodology was not sufficiently clear because the sales objectives were not sufficiently clearly defined and the timing did not seem appropriate at the time. In the current government under the tactics of President Alenka Bratušek and the Finance Minister, you have prepared documents for the European Commission's needs in Brussels. These documents show that you have prepared a privatisation project for the sale of 15 companies. I want to know: On what criteria did this package of sales of 15 companies come into being? What are the sales objectives and the sales time frame? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your question, Mr. Pogačnik. The criteria on the basis of which this package of 15 privatisation companies has been developed would have narrowed down to the following points. The first is companies where sales procedures have already been initiated for the bankruptcy of one or more owners and some joint agreements on the sale of property have already been signed, to which the Republic of Slovenia can then join. Other important criteria are the legal restrictions, particularly as regards the withdrawal of voting rights, which lead to the fact that the country cannot fully exercise all its functions as owner. The third element that has been taken into account in this regard is the financial difficulties of individual companies that will need fresh capital for their stability, some of them even more; what knowledge and what assistance they can assist in accessing markets. The fourth criterion is the criterion of a strategic investor. Many of these companies also need a strategic investor for further growth and further development. Finally, it is possible that the last criterion, which has been taken into account among these main ones, is that we have also taken into account the needs of the Slovenian Compensation Society and Kad in providing their obligations and their funding needs. As far as the timeline is concerned, this clock depends on the stage at which the individual company is. For companies where sales are already under way, this will be faster. For companies where these procedures are not yet in progress, sales procedures will start to take place once they are confirmed in Parliament and for some of the companies, there will also be a need for some transformation before they can be sold, so that they can be better seized from privatisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mag. You want a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I personally estimate that it would probably be more reasonable to adopt the classification and guidelines first and that then the sales procedures will begin, as we estimate that this package was prepared "ad hoc". Probably also raises questions as to where and how this list of companies was prepared. That's right. that sales procedures had already started for these six companies and, of course, a lot of questions were raised in what way. It's not clear whether you're going to go public with these sales. We know that owners in these companies are different parastatal authorities, which are not yet united: Will it ensure that Kad, Sud, DSU, PDP will sell this property together or will they not? We know that the Slovenian Compensation Company and the Capital Society have different valuation methods: How will this affect sales procedures? On the one hand, it is also surprising that this list is quite broad. We know that the previous Janšev government has proposed a non-binding sales procedure for Telekom, only one company, and now there are also New Credit Bank Maribor, Ljubljana Airport in this list. I want to know how the SD Members will react, who have assessed only one sale for treason! Perhaps for an additional question, above all this: How will companies be sold and what will be the selling methods? Is it possible to define a time-table a little bit more, when can we expect the first public invitation to sell assets?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. As far as the method of sale is concerned, we will try to make this sale in a way that will be as transparent and professional as possible because we believe that it is only through such a procedure that we can achieve real value for these companies. The matter will in fact be adapted to the size of the company, because they are different size of the company, the process is also adapted, but the basis is transparency and professionalism. In view of how the validation process in the National Assembly will also proceed, which will be completed before summer, I think that we will then very quickly start the first major procedure of those who are not already in the process, somewhere in early September, because the call for a suitable sales intermediary must also be made in such an appropriate manner that we can then justify it. So I think that the first procedures will start in September, but that, at least in larger matters, I expect between two and three quarters before it ends – depending on how they go and how much demand there will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. You want to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u122	In view of the answers given by the Minister for Finance and, in particular, because the classification and guidelines have not yet been adopted, it is appropriate for us in the SDS Group to have a public debate on the privatisation of Slovenian companies in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246. In particular, because the non-acceptance of classification and guidelines opens up a lot of manoeuvre space. We estimate that there is a great potential, a high probability that this privatisation will take place in a non-transparent manner and that it is likely that the advisers will benefit from all of this in particular. A good example is Adria Airways, Swiss advisors are with, according to the contract, at least as the media report. Regardless of whether the sale will be successful, these financial advisers can make quite a fortune. We stress that in the SDS we support privatisation, but privatisation in a transparent way and in particular with documents provided by the Slovenian State Holding Act as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The proposal to hold a general debate on the Minister's response at the next meeting will be decided in the context of the votes. It is now up to Mrs Ludmila Novak, who has a question for the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anjo Kopač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, welcome. In Slovenia we currently record a lot of unemployment, which is nothing new, data for March show that almost 10%, but in some other countries, of course, it is even higher. However, in 2012 about 7,000 European Union citizens were employed in Slovenia and Slovenia also issued over 20,000 – 20 000 – 519 – work permits for foreigners. We are wondering what will happen to 1 July this year when Croatia will also become a member of the European Union. While we know that the free movement of persons was one of the four fundamental freedoms in the internal market of the European Union, even in 2004, when Slovenia became a member of the European Union with others, some countries adopted certain restrictions, in Austria and Germany, they continued to do so until 2011. With last year's employment, for example, from Bosnia 671 workers, from Croatia 5 000 490, from Serbia over 3 000 and so on, there is a certain concern about what will happen when Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. Do you have any tests? And I'm also asking: When should Slovenia impose restrictions if there is a major problem with the employment of workers from Croatia? Is it possible later, after entering — or what do you expect?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Anya Digač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Thank you for the current question. We are in the period when we know it will be with 1. Seven. 2013 Croatia's entry into the European Union occurred, which of course we have always welcomed. The fact is, as you mentioned, that from the new Member States that joined the European Union in 2004, a transitional period was somehow negotiated by the then old Member States, which covers a period of 7 years. This seven-year period is divided into three different parts. The first two years after the entry of the new Member States into the European Union, the other Member States have the right to restrict this free movement, without any additional clarification being required if I say so in my own words. During these two years, national legislation as it applies to the employment of foreigners can, of course, if the country then comes a three-year period where this restriction has to be justified if it is to be imposed. [[...]] In the last two-year period within this seven-year period, the European Commission's role here is also to approve this restriction if a Member State justifies that opening or allowing the free movement of labour would pose a serious threat to its labour market. As you said, for us, for Slovenia, these restrictions by some countries were an entire 7-year period. The unemployment rate in Slovenia is, we can say, very worrying, we have 120 thousand registered. On the other hand, there is nothing better in Croatia; 365 000 people are unemployed. Above all, there has been a significant increase in the unemployment rate in areas close to Slovenia, from Zagreb to Istria County and in Krapinsko-Zagorska County. The number of work permits issued last year also shows that the issue of licences for Croatian citizens is second. As you mentioned, they were issued by 5 thousand 490 and grew in 2011, so this is some increase in demand for work in our country. At the moment, the Netherlands is already a country that has initiated procedures to restrict free movement. In Slovenia we are preparing, all department ministries, to be up to 1. Seven. 2013, if we decide to do so, all the necessary work will be done. The fact is that the decision is not uniform – on the one hand we have the protection of our labour market and on the other hand there are also possible negative effects, especially with regard to the positioning of Slovenian companies in Croatia, the purchase of products of Slovenian origin, the employment of Slovenians on various projects in Croatia. So all these pluses and minuses have to be given together and then decided. However, I assure you that the ministries are preparing themselves and that the Government will do everything necessary to ensure that, if we go to this limit, the implementation of the first two-year period in particular will do everything in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Social Democrats have consistently stressed how important it is to promote science, research and development for the outcome of the crisis. This issue should also be based on the fact that a specific call for science promotion was also made for 2010 and 2011. One million funds were then allocated for this purpose. In fact, I am relying on Article 12 of the Law on research and development activities, which also discusses the financing of promotions, research and development activities from public funds, in addition to other priorities. The resolution on research and development activities 2011 to 2020 also speaks in the sixth chapter of the Promotion of Science, Creativity and Innovation in Society and Education, and there is also a stated objective of popularisation of science. The fact is that we can boast of many achievements in science, and the question is how much impact these very important achievements have in the public and in particular what could be done with this reflection and popularisation of science and achievements in the application of knowledge as a general value and as incentives for young people, for example, in the entire school or educational period from primary school to full age – to this group – I aim to better integrate into those projects that we can offer in Slovenia. The fact is that in Slovenia we also have good experience with the centre of science and with these experience by the principle of making can be an example and help from many other countries. However, the fact is that they show funds for the promotion of science and education among young people, the decline since 2010. However, if I refer to the resolution, an increase in funds is envisaged for 2014. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What activities is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport carrying out or planning to promote science? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u129	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Your Honor, thank you for this question. As you probably know, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport promotes knowledge in both direct and direct activities. Among the more direct activities, i.e. those who talk about how we place this knowledge or science in a broader social context, I would like to point out the following first; on the one hand, we pay great attention to the awards, we talk about the Zois, we are talking about the awards of the Ambassador of Science of the Republic of Slovenia, we are talking about the Pooh's confessions and so on. By doing so, we want to show socially that this is one of those activities that is highly socially recognised and that we would also like to see young people decide about it. Secondly, you mentioned the already mentioned knowledge center. I think he's a very grateful and good project. We have prepared documentation for it to a large extent, and we intend to include it in the new financial perspective. As far as this is concerned and from this point of view, in terms of promotion, this is one of our major projects. Thirdly, as you know, we have a special program to promote the commission or promote women in science. We want to give the Commission women in science not only an overview, but we want to give a special place to women working in science, of course not only in this way, but mainly in terms of ensuring the equality of their scientific careers. Fourth time. What the Ministry does is that society, i.e. NGOs, grants public interest status – a society in the public interest in the field of science – and thus helps to promote science very indirectly. Fifthly, speaking purely of these concrete things, we have had, unfortunately, no longer a specific programme funded through the Public Research Agency due to the reduction of funds. That's what I'm worried about right now. The last public call, as you yourself have found, was issued in 2010 and 2011, for 2012 it was thus prepared and not later funded, but for 2013 and 2014 we have prepared it, but we cannot publish it because we do not have the appropriate financial resources to do so. I think that's very bad. I think it's long-term not only with promotion, but generally with dedicated money for science, in a way with less dedicated money for science we dig ourselves. That is why I also appeal here to this high assembly that, in the future, when it discusses money in the science balance, it also devotes money to science, which consequently means money for the promotion of science. You have already found that in RIS, as we briefly call it, we have objectives such as popularisation of science, promotion of creativity culture, redesign of study programmes at tertiary level and so on. But the fact is that these objectives, which are enshrined in the programme between 2011 and 2020, will not be possible to achieve unless the financial resources for this are allocated to us. Of course, this will be known in innovative, entrepreneurial, competitive and probably in any other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you for that part of the answer. You have met my expectations and confirmed the importance of this, at the principal level, but what remains an open question is how, in interdepartmental coordination, and in particular at the Ministry of Finance in the balance sheet, to provide the necessary resources to enable the continuation of programmes, because stable sources of funding are essential to ensure that an activity does not die. When I was talking about the promotion of science among young people, I had in mind a very specific case, because you also realized that it was the House of Experiments. This brochure from last year shows the work of the House of Experiments in a very funny way. I think it's the best chain I've ever read, and I've forgotten, and I've seen, and I've remembered, and I've done, and I know. That's it! Nothing will help us to use a lot of high-pitched words about how science is very important and how we need to connect knowledge and entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship if we do not encourage it with concrete measures. Here's another question to ask, and this is where I'm going. The space on Trubar is no longer sufficient for all possible activities: Is there a short-term or long-term plan when it is also possible to count on new spaces? Thank you for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I fully agree with you that high-pitched words will not help anything, but that it is necessary to try, but not only to try, to make things happen. What I can promise in front of the National Assembly is that we will not only take up this cross-cutting coordination but that science, science promotions and all that is involved will be allocated as much resources as possible. However, I think it is also necessary to say very targeted means; not only funds in general, but resources that have an impact. I think our efforts must go this way. As far as the House of Experiments is concerned, at this point I cannot give you a concrete answer, we know about this problem and we are trying to solve it, but at this point we do not yet have a decision as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Question sent to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Stan Stepišnik will be appointed by Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In recent times, we have been particularly aware of the resolution of large-scale over-indebted state-owned enterprises, but we are talking very little about small and medium-sized enterprises and independent entrepreneurs, which in many cases have driven our economic development. They are also very important employees, and the crisis has not passed them either. While some struggle for their survival, others are very successful. Dear Minister: How will we help small and medium-sized enterprises to stand firm and develop? I also have some very specific questions for you to see what this difference is between the aid provided by the State to rescue businesses in crisis and small or medium-sized enterprises. That's why I'm asking you: How much funding will the State devote to rescue companies in the following year? On the other hand, how much funding will the country devote to a better functioning and a better business environment for small and medium-sized enterprises? As both new tax burdens and increased contributions are forecast, which will especially burden independent entrepreneurs, I ask you: When you proposed this increase in tax and contribution burdens, did you do some in-depth analysis and find out how this — because, of course, it will have a negative impact on business operations? Last but not least, I'm asking you specifically: What tax and contribution burdens and also what administrative simplifications are your government planning for the next period? Like next year. If you remember, the previous government, as part of its programme, has set the exact opposite path. In order to create a good, appropriate and conducive environment for small and medium-sized enterprises, she has proposed a number of incentives – for investments, for example. It proposed simplifications, such as the tax rate. In the context of pension reform, including other legislation, a number of reductions in the contribution rates or facilitation in the field of contributions to new jobs were also foreseen, which is particularly important for SMEs. Therefore: Which taxes will you lower, and what contributions will you reduce to make it easier for you to do business?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, it wants to help the economy with a number of aspects. First, through the legislative aspect, even after all, if you want a legal aspect, a school perspective, as well as through assistance to businesses; those who actually need financial assistance; and those who actually need capital adequacy and liquidity. That's why more instruments have been developed. But to be more specific. The planned measures in 2013 and 2014, if I focus on the business environment and competitiveness, are then implemented in accordance with the Programme of Action to Promote Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness 2013, the Programme for the Promotion of Technological Development and Innovation for 2013 and the Slovenian Industrial Policy adopted for 2014-2020, following measures to ensure a comprehensive, efficient and transparent support environment to promote entrepreneurship and innovation, such as the financing of entry point support services I know at local level, the financing and implementation of the tasks of university incubators, the financing and implementation of the activities of technology transfer offices, the financing of entities to support the national innovation system, the promotion of entrepreneurship, the envisaged value of co-financing in 2013-2014 is 7.4 million euros. Measures to promote and generate growth and the development of enterprises in the form of subsidies for the start-up of new innovative companies, the promotion of fast-growing enterprises, return on resources and equity financing, venture capital with debt resources, credits, guarantees, subsidies, interest rates, microcredits. The projected cost of co-financing 2013-2014 – a circus of €115 million. It will be implemented through the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. Thirdly, measures to promote innovation and entrepreneurial investment in development and research: co-financing of development activities, technological investment and the purchase of technological equipment; promotion of the employment of researchers and strengthening of development departments in enterprises; promotion of non-technological and technological innovation, including industrial design; promotion of international technological development projects such as Eureka, Eurostars; investment in smart specialisation, development centres of the Slovenian economy, wood. The estimated cost of co-financing in 2013-2014 is EUR 136 million. Measures under the Action Plan for the implementation of the Small Business Act 2012-2013: a more detailed breakdown of measures to improve access to funding sources, financial engineering through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. The Slovenian Enterprise Fund will continue its offer of products through three financial lines, namely guarantee credit lines for small, medium-sized enterprises, subsidy lines for small, medium-sized enterprises and equity financing. In 2013, €122 million is available to support the Circus 117 projects in total investment value of around €150 million by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. In 2014, €73 million of favourable funding will be available to support the Circus 58 projects totalling €142 million. SID Bank. The SID Bank has developed a credit line for financing technology development projects of EUR 150 million and several additional new financial instruments mentioned earlier by the President. These are: investments in development and research – 140 million, investments in fixed capital – 100 million euros, investments in fixed capital, turnover in small, medium-sized enterprises of the circus of EUR 500 million and turnover for small and medium-sized enterprises or micro and small enterprises of EUR 5 million. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tomcheva, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u140	Apparently, the minister and I have been halfway there, so I'm going to ask you one more question so you can answer further. But it doesn't matter. Mr. Minister, what you mentioned is not really new. These are programs that have already existed, some have been in progress for a very long time; the Enterprise Fund has long existed. On the other hand, you haven't answered any of my four questions. I would like to ask you if you would make the most of your efforts with regard to the last question where I ask you: Does the government also plan any reductions in taxes and contributions, and what reliefs on the other hand? I am, of course, adding a comment. Dear Minister, one concrete measure is in terms of financial incentives: loans, co-financing, interest rate subsidies, a variety of guarantee schemes, which is certainly commendable. But these are partial measures intended only for some companies. I am asking you, and I think it is very important that, in addition to these partial measures, we seek or that the Government is shaping the entire enterprise sector with a favourable environment. It is said, some general matters, general burdens, general simplifications, removal of administrative barriers. In short, what works for everyone, so that we do not always have the feeling that we are working on one side of all the taxes we have predicted, to put as much money into the budget as possible so that we can then distribute it through other channels to some individual companies or groups. In short: What are you planning in terms of overall improvements in the entrepreneurial environment?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u141	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u142	I mentioned earlier what tax measures, how much money are earmarked for small and medium-sized enterprises and large businesses. True, the country must make a good business environment for economic operators. The current situation of economic operators is that they are indebted and have a financial or liquidity crisis or we call it a liquidity trap. We need to work with more perspectives. The first task, which is, most of all, a financial spasm, is to call for bad bank claims, somehow to be resolved. In parallel, it is necessary to assist businesses in the deleveraging process. Mechanisms are being prepared here from more than one side. On the one hand, a new law on aid to firms in difficulty is being prepared; on the other hand, a new law on systemic dissipation is being prepared, but it is preparing a legal area. The financial sector is preparing mechanisms, state guarantee schemes for granting loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and for the capital adequacy of enterprises. We have previously heard that this is about EUR 500 million, or one billion. At the same time, it is clear that bureaucratic obstacles must also be undermined. The biggest bureaucratic obstacles that we have today come from other areas as well, and in other areas there is an incentive from our side.This is, say, putting certain projects into space so that we can get bigger state infrastructure or entrepreneurial, if you want, investments. It's mainly about de-de-irocracy. So, removing these administrative barriers. The role was taken by the Ministry of Interior and Administration, which is trying to unify all procedures in Slovenia on the principle of 'one data once a country', not that we have to meet certain forms over and over again. Incentives, or all taxes, if we want – the biggest problem for the economy is clearly this public financial deficit. These pressures on the economy in all respects: whether we are going to work on the expenditure side of the budget or on income, I would say, the soul of the economy. When it comes to increasing taxes and contributions or ultimately cutting social contributions, there is also less purchasing power, which also affects poorer economic growth. Therefore, the benefits will go primarily towards new employment and youth employment. Those who need to come to the labour market immediately after education and in the triangular state, young people and businesses would try to hire one, two or three years in order to gradually increase taxes and contributions in the third year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I think this area of development and incentives to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is so important that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Minister's response is still under discussion or that the National Assembly hold a debate. In fact, Mr Minister, it was not clear from your answers that you were offering any mitigating circumstances in the employment of small and medium-sized enterprises. Now let's limit ourselves to micro and small businesses. Like those companies that have up to ten employees. I don't know if the big infrastructure projects and the new I know the points and everything you're talking about are going to help them who are somehow on the verge of survival. However, they are, as we say, important employees, even if they have a small number of employees, every job, as you well know, is very important. However, as far as these incentives mentioned for new employment and employment of young people are concerned, I must remind you that this is already a relief, or a relief, and the opportunities envisaged under the adopted legislation proposed by the previous government. At least it's correct to admit that these incentives will come, but they won't come from any of your circles. Because you are introducing new taxes and new contributions, which has been a relief so far, the former government has introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u145	Dear Mrs. Tomc, did you wish to propose a proposal for a debate? I know, I heard it at first. Well, considering you've been discussing it a little longer. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will decide on your proposal tomorrow, which is Tuesday, 21 May 2013, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Jerovšek to the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, and the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stan Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! My question and the initiative I will give are also intended for other sectoral ministers or the whole Government. In fact, Slovenia is in an extreme crisis due to extremely poor governance of state property, particularly through systematic bank robbery and other state-owned institutions, where managers pay extraordinary incomes and annual rewards. Despite the fact that the majority of the population is incarcerated under the burden of crisis, we sometimes have in state-owned enterprises, financial institutions, banks, public institutions to pay the incredible annual awards granted to them for poor business and poor management by the majority of the supervisory councils. And that's the principle: the hand washes the hand. I have always been critical of the practices of previous governments, and I am not satisfied with none, and this must end once. Days ago, the annual income of the former administration of the Court was announced, which was resolved in February, where Mr Kuntaric, Director, paid 146 000 euros, received an additional 84 000 euros of the annual prize. For me, that's what it is, stealing from the state and state property. Since the new government has re-appointed Mr Kuntaric before the day, I take this as evidence that it agrees with such a strategy and such a policy and that it even supports this, rather than the Government taking legal action, demands it and solemnly declares that it has definitively unlocked this practice. Clearly, this government also supports such conduct. For me, this is systemic corruption, for then part of this money and these rewards are being passed back and forth into politicians' pockets. Do these people who own state property — and most of the time they have bad governance — know where the banks, what kind of robbery took place there — picture the gods and deities earning such incomes and such rewards? Therefore, I call on the Government to take action immediately to make it clear, and there is no more prize in marriage! Each supervisor must sign that he will not receive any prize in addition to the meeting. Because they don't deserve it! And whoever received more than the President of the Government in the past year should return that money in the wake of this crisis. Because otherwise – see, we have this information for the Court – what they used to say will apply: [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Who's going to answer first? Minister Chufer or [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Chufer. No, no, no. Mr. Stephnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u148	With all due respect, Mr Jerovšek, but I like you because you're so self-critical. You've given us everything that needs to be done — about what was going on. Good, because there's probably something that needs to be done in this direction. I like that you insist, but the former government should also insist. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology already supervises the remuneration of directors, since it is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Law on the remuneration of business persons in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia and the local self-government communities. The remuneration shall be the basic payment, mainly in relation to the average gross salary paid in companies, groups or companies, if there is no group, in the previous financial year, a multiple of 2, 3, 4 or 5, depending on the activity and size of the company. For companies engaged in the supply of electricity, gas and steam and in mining, the multiple is reduced. Variable remuneration, up to 30, 15 or 10 % of the principal’s basic payments paid during the financial year, depending on the company’s activities. For companies engaged in the supply of electricity, gas and steam in mining and carrying out a certain economic public service in self-governance local communities, a lower percentage of the variable remuneration is. Retirement — maximum amount of the Director's 6-fold basic monthly payment. This is probably too much, but the economy should be further reduced in the future. By regulating the legislation and regulation establishing the maximum ratios for basic payments and the level of variable remuneration of directors, uniform rules have been put in place. Maximum possible ratios in determining the remuneration of directors to be taken into account by the supervisory authorities in the conclusion of employment contracts, civil law contracts and annexes to these contracts. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 7 of the ZPOUGD, the authorities of those companies must forward the contract of directors to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Where the supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this Act establishes a non-compliance of the contractual provisions with the provisions of the law, or it is established that the contract of the Director has not been forwarded to the Ministry, the matter shall be referred to the criminal authority, which shall determine the conditions for the initiation of the procedure under official responsibility and shall establish a criminal procedure if it finds that the conditions laid down for the initiation of the procedure under official duty are laid down. Up to now, 118 criminal proceedings have been instituted, of which 34 have been initiated for direct contracts and 84 for non-coordinated contracts. I have these contracts listed, but I think it would take too long to read them all. That'll be all for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Would you like to add to that, Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much. No, I think the Minister of Economy was exhausted, so I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, complement the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much. To the ministers, or to one minister – the other in the field of banking and insurance and all of this he had no comment. I have to say, I have a feeling you're making fun of the Slovenian people. Former colleague and now minister, have you read the latest published statistics of the two hundred largest salaries in the country where most state-owned owners – two hundred thousand average annual salaries, two hundred thousand! That's five times as much as a Member's salary or your salary. Are you prepared to face the fact that this is a robbery of the state? These managers aren't that good, because then you wouldn't waste the country. For years and years, they threatened to go to foreign companies! Let them go! Let them go tomorrow! And once again, I call upon you: What are you going to do to stop this practice? Reading the rules of procedure, my dear fellow minister, is out of the question here in front of us. Tell me, what are you going to do? These are Jude’s money, unjustifiably laundered, stolen, many times on the basis of some regulations of the oversight councils. Such practice should be discontinued. Do not name these supervisors and those directors who are not prepared to give up. Tell me what you're gonna do here! Will you at least respect the Lawman's marriage? And with regard to the obvious, I have been forever critical of this and I am not satisfied with any previous government, but now we are in such a bad situation that you must act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Minister Stepišnik, will you add anything else?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u154	Obviously, something has to be said.In the private sector, personal benefits are the same as they are. I think they're even too small. Because the one who is good should have more than the one who is worse, even if he goes to the professional level. I always said that when two people went to school, one had mathematics one and the other had five, and there was a fivefold difference. If two work in the same post after systematisation, one can be five times better than the other, it could have five times more personal income. But it is true that, above all, during the previous governments and your government, you have hired more than a thousand people, such is an assessment, and have placed most of the control councils. These supervisory councils have done nothing. Now, propose new measures, propose them by law, and we will try to support them and through Parliament. I don't know what else to say. But I do know that those who are good deserve a lot more than they deserve today than they get, I would say for that month's work, and others might actually get too much. But this needs to be resolved, you know, by the ministries, by state-owned companies and so on. But profit is always a measure of success, and I agree with you. If an undertaking is not successful, then it cannot win a prize, it cannot get more than an economic operator in a similar situation. This is said to be the case in the future with regard to the level of regressions, discharges and this in particular in those state-owned companies that are failing. However, those who are very successful should approach the private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal? Excuse me, do you still want Minister Chufer? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you. Maybe he'd like to add a few more things, though. As you can see, Mr Jerovšek, you are actually quite right, because when there is a crisis, it is a crisis for everyone and not just for some. And it is right that these things should also be done properly and that these areas should also be looked at more precisely than possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Minister Chufer. Now for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u158	Yeah, I'll make a procedural proposal. Thank you for at least Minister Chufer said he agrees, but I still have a feeling there's no willingness on the government. I did not ask Minister Stepišnik about private companies, I do not interfere there, but about state and state institutions and institutions. Those people do the same as many other intellectuals or someone else and more than twenty-four hours do not have a day and do not earn in this state of state a bag of such incomes. I asked you when you would take action to say, "From tomorrow on, you must all sign a statement that there is no prize." That's not part of the pay. They're gone! Easy. Because that's how a bank is robbed. At times, in Frankfurt and elsewhere, overseers had enormous rewards and looted — and probably still looting. As a result, these answers did not satisfy me because I note that it is not ready for the country to act in favour of the common good, for the benefit of the citizens, in favour of saving the country. In this way, I tell you, we will bring in a short country before total bankruptcy if you are not prepared to act. Therefore, on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we hold a thorough debate on this matter. I propose to the Ministers and the Government and ask you to take these questions seriously so that you are prepared not to read in front of Members of the Rules and Rules of Procedure. There is also the Lawman's law. If only you could promise to respect him! And a lot more. As a representative of the people, I am obliged to ask you to do so. I hope that the Members, who are always guilty of everything, are responsible for the privileges and the highest wages, and we are in the end, among them we are church mice. Let it be as it is for Members of Parliament! May the maximum severance be such as it is for the Member of Parliament. The highest! There's no reason I should be higher. Whoever gets the higher income from the Prime Minister, give it back! That's not how it works! I know that the President of the Government, whoever he is, has substantially greater responsibilities and responsibilities, people criticise him, he's responsible for everything, and others share millions and millions, in a partially legal way. Then, when we find out how many millions and millions of Slovenian state banks have put into various projects, they knew that the money would not be returned. And they're rewarded for that. They can't be!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. Next up, it's mag. Katarina Hočevar, who will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Dear Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In Slovenia, almost 1 in 4 families is single parent. According to your ministry, the well-respected minister, more than 65,000 children were eligible for maintenance at the end of last year. Although it seems at first sight that we have a detailed system of regulation in Slovenia, since 2004 the non-payment of maintenance is even a crime, and NGOs have in recent years warned that it is not always so in practice. They point out that in Slovenia 8% of children entitled to maintenance should not receive them. We have the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund, which pays 4 grand a month. The country spends 3 million euros a year on this, although it is said that only one third of this money is recovered. I want to know: Why is that? I want to know: Are you planning any changes in this area? In particular, in this direction, those system holes, which are mainly pointed out by NGOs, will be filled and that in Slovenia every child entitled to maintenance will actually receive it. I also want to know: What does the Minister of Justice think about that? Some experts point out that, above all, the enforcement procedure is under-adapted to the benefit of children. That's why I want to know: Is it possible that you are planning a joint action or improvement of the situation in this area at both ministries? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The answer also applies to Dr. Shadow Plitschanič, so that both of you will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. It's interesting to hear that we're worried about similar things, so thank you very much for asking. So if we look at the legal basis, the Law on Marriage and Family Relations in Article 223 stipulates that parents are obliged to support their children until they are of age or are educated up to the age of twenty-six, even if they are in an extraordinary study. It should be stressed here that the duty to survive is primarily the responsibility of parents and that the state intervenes when parents do not. Here, however, it is necessary to say that most parents, you mentioned how many single - parent families there are, yet this fulfils its obligation. If we look at the data, about 47,000 children are currently provided with maintenance, of which in May 2013 a maintenance allowance was paid, i.e. that one of the parents did not pay what should have been paid, such cases amounting to 3 000 800, an average of 83 euros was paid for this maintenance allowance. As you have already mentioned, we have a very important institution in this area, the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund, in particular this maintenance part, the task of which is primarily to ensure social security for such children, to strengthen the responsibility for payment of subsistence allowances, to improve the recovery of debt and also to raise awareness of this area, as regards the necessity of paying these refunds. As you mentioned, we are working hard, and about a third of the monetary benefits are then subrogated – so execution is carried out. We are not most pleased with this, but we need to be sensitive in this area. We are familiar with the proposal of NGOs in order not to allow, for example, the registration of a passenger vehicle if the debtor does not pay maintenance. On the other hand, this may sound like a good solution, and on the other hand, we can be aware that if such a person does not have a car or a job, he will not arrive and may have even less opportunity to obtain funds to pay back his or her child - support obligation. As you said, it has been a crime since 2004, but unfortunately it has never really been done. In 2012, she was under Director-General Ana Vodičar when we, in fact, together with the Public Guarantee and Maintenance Fund, the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, the Ombudsman, the Attorney General's Office and the General Police Administration, prepared information on the declaration of a crime of non-payment of maintenance under Article 194 of the Penal Code. So, finally, we have all the institutions responsible for this together prepared this information to make it clear that this is a relationship and how it is implemented. It should be stressed, however, that it is not the objective of a person who does not do so to be put in prison, but, above all, that we are able to make this allowance pay, so that this parental care is carried out. I may also point out here a new social legislation that has made these things even more visible in some way, because it says that maintenance needs to be shown among these incomes and also in court proceedings for recovery, so that this can then be considered within new entitlements. In this way, several parents, or most of the time, who do not receive paid maintenance, also decided to require their rights in court. We will certainly continue to work at the Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Justice, to improve legislation, in particular as regards the recovery of livelihoods. This is how we examine the possibility of some kind of misappropriation of a legal personality, i.e. how it cuts off property that is not owned by a debtor. But all efforts will continue to be made to raise awareness that this is a very important matter and that non-payment of subsistence is unacceptable, immoral and also a crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Even Minister Plitzenic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I'm going to add something else to that from the department I'm running. The question was raised in such a way that it could be understood that the enforcement procedure, the procedure governing recovery of already-occurring nutrients, is under-adapted to the benefit of children. It is confident that any arrangement can be improved, but I can say that [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u165	Do you have a further question that the Minister will be able to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u166	Minister, thank you for that part of the answer. You mentioned the registration of motor vehicles. The organisation that proposes this also proposes a public publication of the non-payments. I want to know: Do you think that such a matter might also improve the situation in this area? Besides, I'm also interested in the powers of the Justice Minister as to what he's going to say on this subject. I'm asking for this part of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u167	Dr. Lulcanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you. I will proceed first and then the Minister will answer this additional question. The pre-executive procedure has already been privileged to treat claims arising from a maintenance charge which have priority over a whole type of other claim when it comes to resorting to the debtor’s assets in the enforcement procedure. It is true, however, that some other circumstances are also condemned. These are: long-term procedures, non-payment of nutrients and problems in the recovery of nutrients. In short, this second set of facts refers to the lack of effective functioning of the judiciary when it comes to the conduct of enforcement proceedings. This is true, so I intend to propose, and the co-workers at the Ministry are already preparing this, in a short amendment to the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which will address this particular problem, as well as some others, which are all derived from this second set of facts that I have mentioned; from problems related to the effectiveness of the judicial system. This novelty, when it comes to recovery issues, will, for example, arrange or propose that this arrangement be adopted in order to secure outstanding amounts of already outstanding maintenance claims for a longer period of time than is possible under the current regulation. This can be done for one year after the current regime, and this should be renewed every year. The proposal, which we are preparing in the context of a broader amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, will allow for a proposal to issue provisional orders for a longer period of time. This will be something in the interest of the creditor, in this case probably mostly the mother of the child, who so far, due to the reasons related in particular to the slowness and lack of efficiency in the implementation of the enforcement procedures, have not been able to reach this money.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dr. Digger of the Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thanks for the initiative. However, it is always necessary to know that a public publication can have positive and negative consequences. In fact, situations are against each other. I do not want to defend those who do not pay their duty, which is crucial, because they must be clearly aware that their children are their children and that they have to take care of them. However, not everyone is in the same position, so it is right to make enforcement procedures more effective than to throw everything into the same basket and say that regardless of the reasons, you are all the same, not paying maintenance. This is why awareness is so important here, because, above all, it is something to be paid for, and also somehow socially, it must be unacceptable if they use such opportunities to fail to meet their legal obligations to their children.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Justice Minister Dr Senk Plitchanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u172	Have a nice hello to you all. Dear Minister! The Resolution on the National Programme for the Integration and Suppression of Crime for the period 2012-2016, which was adopted last year, also sets out in the section Depriving property of illegal origin. It states, however, that an analysis of the implementation of this Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin, which was adopted at the end of 2011, should be prepared. It is a law that has a very important impact on the rule of law or on people’s thinking about how we work. I don't think many of our citizens even know that we have this law. However, this is an important law, especially when the talk on regulating the area of concealment and tax evasion in Slovenia, unfortunately, is still a very big problem. It stated that emphasis should be placed on the drafting of a law on the identification of weaknesses in the legal regime, taking into account also the comments or all of the needs of practice with a view to increasing efficiency. The deadline for implementation was also written, which was at the end of January 2013, which means that this law for the analysis and preparation of the law has already expired. Dear Minister, even though the coalition has changed, you are still the Minister for the same area. I want to know: Has the Ministry of Justice prepared an analysis? When is it envisaged that legislative changes in this area will be in government and when is the adoption envisaged in the National Assembly? On this occasion, I also wonder: Can you give some specific points when this analysis is ready? Do you believe that the new Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin will bring a large number of people to court and later to the rear? Do you think that, specifically, we can regulate procedures by law so that individual influential people do not have an impact on their procedures, so that their hunters will not reach the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, which means avoiding punishment? During the weekend, the Slovenian public was shocked by the fact that one of the so-called construction baronesses had left detention due to procedural errors. Today is one of the latest, most resounding news that is being sought with an international warrant. So I want to know: Do you feel that the prosecution and the judiciary are acting optimally, or do you feel that they are to some extent under pressure from certain lobbying or influential people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you. Your Honor, I agree with your finding that this is one of the most important laws. I also agree with the conclusion that a lot of people don't even know we have one. This second conclusion is likely to stem from the fact that it only entered into force last year. I am committed, as I have done last year, to do everything within my competence to ensure that the issues governed by this law are implemented as soon as possible and as widely as possible in practice, and in this respect your question is also raised. This is my answer to your question. As soon as the law was in force, it turned out to contain some shortcomings. I would like to draw attention here to the Members and Members present that this was a bill of the Members, which began to apply on 30 May 2012. Thus, when the law was drafted, adopted and enforced, it was clear that there were some shortcomings, but they were not such as to prevent the application of the law in practice. It was our view that the law would have to be applied in practice, in order to then be derived from practice, i.e. by all those bodies within the scope of this law, namely, the Ministry of the Interior, the police, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court, the State Defence, the Customs Administration, the Tax Administration and some others, that, therefore, those who have to apply the law would be, in practice, informed of their experience in applying this law in practice, which were those other shortcomings, in addition to those found at the time of the entry into force of the law. Our ambition was to wait for the law, as it is said, to be applied in practice; in intensive communication with all those who use the law, to gather their experience with the law and any other shortcomings, and then jointly prepare the necessary changes to the law in a way that the law will be even more operational than it is. This analysis that you're asking is being prepared, but it couldn't be fully prepared for the very reason that I'm talking about because we're waiting for some experience to be gathered. Only when these experiences are accumulated can we be more decisive than we would be if only as the Ministry can we judge whether the law is right or wrong. It is necessary to wait, as it is said, for use in practice and then to make a more sovereign assessment of what needs to be changed and in which direction. I can say that these communications are intensively carried out with the authorities I mentioned earlier, and I hope that by the end of the year, as well as the Government's normative programme, there will be important changes to this law, which will then allow these same authorities to be able to do even better than they have so far – so we already have some information on how they are used in practice. That's all I can say right now. I'd like to answer that last part of your question. Well, in fact, I would explain when I will answer the last part of your question when you ask whether and what is the responsibility of the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office for the functioning of the judicial system in general, so I understood this question, not only in direct connection with the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin. I am here to answer this in more detail on the next question put by Mr Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you. Minister, you said that the law was in force for one year, and at the same time you wrote in the resolution that the deadline for the implementation of the law was January 2013, but unfortunately that means that you do not stick to the deadlines within the Ministry, which you have set for yourself, and we have confirmed them. I want to know: Who do you think is to blame for the fact that these procedures do not go faster and more successfully? Do you think that there is a share of the responsibility of the ministry here, or do you place it partly on the prosecutions and the courts? At least: What will have to be done to ensure that all those people who are sadly still at large, or whose property has not been taken, are also subject to the rule of law, not just those small thefts? In particular, Minister: What will you do if there is no law within a few months and there is no progress in this area within one year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you. As I said before, this deadline is really written down. I see it as a deadline for some comprehensive analysis of the shortcomings of the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin, not as a deadline for proposing changes to the law. However, we have concluded that from May 2012 to, say, the re-uptake of the mandate in March 2013 has simply been too little time to be able to assess in a comprehensive and sufficiently reasoned manner what are the changes that we need to propose that the law can be operational and that it will serve the objective that you are mentioning, in fact, that something will happen in relation to what the law is talking about. So that, in fact, one of the locusts, from those who have robbed themselves in the past of a large amount of property, will in fact be taken away from one of them. So, my goal is the same as yours, here we are just talking about why we haven't prepared the analysis yet and why we haven't prepared any changes to the law resulting from the analysis. I repeat: because it has simply been too little time and because the responses of those who use the law in practice are not yet sufficiently received by the authorities I mentioned earlier, so that they can do something about it. In this way, we answer why we do not stick to the deadline we have proposed. We were just expecting, when we proposed this deadline, that within these few months of the entry into force of the law in May 2012, there would be enough responses, enough experience to be able to do so, and that was not possible. And that was not in our power, because, as you know, the ministry here has a simple competence, and this is to capture the experiences of the various authorities, to talk to them and then propose some changes. We have estimated that it is more reasonable than rushing with some minor changes that we could have already proposed, to wait for the law to really take place, as far as it can take into account the text as it is, and then to react fully with one serious change, which would then, as I said earlier, allow all those who enforce the law to implement it as it is intended. It is said that those who acquired the property illegally or domestically stole it and stole it from them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, also a question for Justice Minister Dr. Plitsanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, perhaps we will both agree that the state of the rule of law is worrying, of course, I am aiming primarily at the justice system. It is no longer worthwhile to repeat what I have said in this Chamber since 2008 about the highest number of judges per population, what are the judicial backlogs, and what is no longer the point of repeating what I have said in asking the previous question of the Slovenians for the justice system to spend €89, while the average number of other Europeans is €41, the largest backlog. We both sat together at previous government meetings and there — we both know that this is probably the case now, because it can’t be otherwise — under the heading of a human resources case every week the Government will grant several million for settlement, which could be called either by judicial error or by error or by any other case, because the judges are not responsible for their work. I was, for example, very disappointed in the Balkan warrior case when they spent a year and a half grinding all those police evidences, counting them, counting them, adjusting them, and first approved them, and then, after a year and a half, they realized that they had not been collected in a legal way and that the defendants had walked away. I didn't think I could be much more surprised, though. On Friday, the news of Mrs Tobělov's unjustified detention was published, and on Saturday it was readjusted, and again they said that he had to go to detention, but today he is on the run and there is a published tyrant who has not yet been entered into Interpol's base, I do not know why not, and then probably soon a man would believe what the so-called yellow media is saying that it is something in connection with recent rebuttal investigations with Mr Sénica. I wouldn't be surprised if I did. But the essence of my question is as follows. I think that I have seen somewhere in the media how you and the judiciary agree that this should finally and truly assume its share of responsibility and that the Government and the judiciary should prepare a document to commit themselves to the common needs and actions of the rule of law. With all this, I'm not aiming so hard at you because we know that your powers of justice are limited. There's a judicial branch of power opposite – I thought you were and you're doing the right thing. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u181	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u182	I am answering this question in this way: as you know, the judiciary is pleased to stress that the independent branch of state authority is, we all agree, as well as the executive branch of state authority is an independent, independent and legislative branch. We know these three branches. However, I think we all agree that none of these three branches of government is independent of the one who is the only holder of power in this country, that is the people. So this must also apply to the judiciary. I think that the executive branch and the legislative branch of the authorities are well aware of this, namely that they are dependent and sent to the people and that they are doing what they are doing on his behalf and for his account; the same is true for the judiciary. I would like to say that, with regard to the issue you are referring to and concerning the situation in the Slovenian judiciary, both the previous government and this government are very well aware of its responsibilities in this area. At the same time, as you have already identified in the question, it is limited to what it can achieve with regard to the improvement of the situation in the judiciary. Most of the responsibility in this regard lies with the judiciary alone, the judiciary is the one who can change the situation in the judiciary quickly and quickly or does not do so; the enforcement branch and the legislature, Parliament, have important powers here relating to the adoption of laws, to improve legislative arrangements, to issue and adopt regulations governing the functioning of the judiciary. Implementation, implementation of all of this, in fact increasing the efficiency of the judiciary, to which we all weigh and what your question most likely refers, which means reducing judicial proceedings, is exclusively in the hands of the judiciary. Here, the executive branch, the government and the legislative branch cannot do much if there is no agreement with the judiciary and, of course, there can be no such thing if the judiciary, even more than so far, is aware of its responsibilities before Slovenian citizens and citizens in this regard. When it comes to the situation in which the Slovenian judiciary is, all those who have accompanied my work in the past term, you know that I have always pointed out that this situation is not good, that there has been many improvements in recent years, that it is still not good, that is not what our citizens and citizens rightly expect from the judiciary; not just from the judiciary, from all of us, especially from the judiciary, in view of what I have said before, so given that the key and majority of the responsibilities in this regard are alone. Those who accompanied my work during last year's term of office may also have found that the judiciary resisted such findings, even more so resisted the changes I have proposed in the previous term, the amendments to the laws which I considered necessary to contribute to the executive branch and the legislative branch of the authorities to increase the efficiency of the judiciary, and thus ended my past mandate. So, on the one hand, in my warning of the lack of efficiency of the judiciary, on my proposal for amendments, i.e. the measures that I can propose in my own competence to improve efficiency, and on the other hand the denial by the judiciary of both. At the same time, the European Commission's report on the state of the judiciary in the Member States of the European Union, which is devastating for the Slovenian judiciary, coincided with the adoption of a new mandate in this government. If, given my limited time, I limit myself to only three things. In part, you have already mentioned them, Mr Member, from this report. In the Slovenian judiciary there are the most judges per number of people in the European Union, I think that in the 3rd or 4th place, the Slovenian judiciary is after the proportion of budgetary resources, i.e. the proportion of money the country spends on the functioning of the judiciary, and also in the 3rd place, but from the back, by efficiency; therefore, it is in the last place when it comes to the issue of efficiency. Because of all this, and because of my awareness, my own experience, which also stems from last year's experience that without cooperation in this country we will not be able to change anything, that is, cooperation between the executive and the judicial branches, when it comes to a change from a lack of efficiency to a greater efficiency of the judiciary, I have proposed that the executive branch, the government and the judiciary reach an agreement, [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] But I'll tell you more about it later. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u183	Would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Otherwise, it is not the custom for opposition Members to praise ministers. But at the same time, I must make it very clear that you are the first minister to speak true words about justice, at least for a few ministers back. This needs to be made very clear. I'm a little worried about that part of your answer. In the previous government, we had very clear goals, 6+3+3, which means that the trial would be over in one year. It's all true, you're just saying that the government is limited – yes, it is. that the judiciary resists — yes, it resists; that it has been 20 or 23 years or more. Justice is responsible, as you say. He's got it all! But personally, I think, this is my personal opinion, my desire, if you want or any other – the environment in which you work, this is the left political environment, I have a feeling that you will not be favored, the right one would be for you – but the following is: it is true, but if you think that justice will begin to exercise its part of responsibility, you are mistaken in my deep conviction. For a fundamental reason, they will not do so. If they don't for 23 years, then they won't do it now, but they'll probably come up with demands for more money, better places, that, that, that, that, then, you'll sign something, they'll promise something, and there'll be nothing. I think that, with all due respect for all three branches of government, it is legal, legislative and executive that the latter two must, in my opinion, not know the right expression, but in my opinion they should take certain coercive measures, coercive measures in the field of justice. If we could achieve this with this agreement that you intend to sign, I think it would be very fine. At least as far as I am concerned, we would also have support in this context, because these measures are absolutely necessary! They won't do anything on their own. I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u185	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you. I would continue where I had previously finished and would specifically stress the importance of increasing the efficiency of the judiciary, particularly at the time we are; in the crisis. We are engaged, the previous government, this government is dealing with a whole range of measures, looking for all possible ways, appropriate measures to get this country out of the crisis as soon as possible. In doing so, I believe that the effective functioning of the judiciary – in general the justice system, and in particular the judiciary – is crucial. We don't have much time; we need to make rapid changes in this area. At the same time – here I continue where I finished earlier – these changes need to be achieved quickly, but in cooperation. As I have said many times, I am human and also as a minister, as a politician, I have always advocated agreements, talks and cooperation, and I still think the same as ever. That is why, as I have said, I have proposed, and such a proposal has also been adopted by the judiciary to make a commitment, not to each other, but to make a commitment to Slovenian citizens and citizens, which would make it very clear that, by 2014, a substantial reduction in judicial proceedings must be achieved, this is precisely how this reduction should be, and how we will also define how this objective will be achieved; what the judiciary will do and what the executive branch of the authorities will do to achieve this goal – not in 2030, but in 2014, because we do not have time. If we really want to make a change in the short term, otherwise than to make a very clear quantification, a measurable goal, not with some general Flossules, we commit ourselves to the Slovenian public, I do not see any other way, and then each curtain of sleeves and does its own business. I can say that the Government is well aware of its responsibilities and has already begun to prepare these changes or to implement measures that it can take on its own in order to significantly improve the effective judiciary in one year. This is how we intend to propose in a short time significant amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, which I am sure will help. From here on out, everything is in the hands of the judiciary. I expect from the judiciary that the judiciary will act as responsible as I and the Government do and join this commitment – that is to say, the commitment to the Slovenian people, to Slovenian citizens and citizens – and very clearly announce what it will do by 2014, what its objectives will be achieved and how it will achieve them. Here I particularly stress the importance of this joint commitment, because this shows Slovenian citizens and citizens at a time when nothing seems possible to agree on in this country, and that some very important things can be agreed on.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u187	Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We usually propose a vote on the debate on the Minister's response when the Member is not satisfied. I am pleased with what the Minister or the Minister has said, but I propose this debate. The reason is in support of the Minister, I stress in support of the ministers in the coming time, because I believe that the message of Parliament to the judicial branch of power can also help the Minister in his efforts, which I think are the right ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 21 May 2013, in the framework of the votes. Now, Mr Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! After the start of the crisis, which has led to the belief that many banks are themselves, our country has already spent around 600 million euros by recapitalising the latter. Banka Slovenije itself estimates that it would need EUR 228 million to achieve the minimum capital adequacy of the Slovenian bank, and in the case of the least favourable scenario, it could need over 400 million. We all know that this financial injection by the State does not yet mean that Slovenian banks will be free of problems. It is their duty to make sure that they operate better and that they do not get in trouble. If we were living in a time when you were dipping honey and milk, recapitalisation wouldn't even be problematic. Today, when we save on every segment, at every step, on every individual, the rehabilitation of state banks, when they know their business data, will be so much more in the eyes. Bank management has in the past approved large-scale loans to economic and other entities without or without sufficient insurance. The supervisory mechanisms did not play their supervisory role in order to prevent and call those responsible to account. As a result of these negative phenomena, banks are so continuously recapitalised from tax money, which is not going anywhere or the state will not be able to do so. I have already asked this question to former Minister Šuštersič, but given that it is a new government and a new minister, I am again asking you. I am so interested in your opinion and the future conduct of the Government regarding state banks. Banks, which we need to recapitalise, on the other hand have hugely seized new and old apartments, other properties – and thus hugely so-called dead capital – that they do not want to sell on the market. If they were, they would have expanded the offer on the market, as they could have been bought by those who solve the housing problem, thereby providing banks with substantial cash to enable the State to have significantly lower liabilities to the banks. In addition, banks own new dwellings, along with these new dwellings, a large number of land and certain shares of companies that should also be sold and consequently relieve the State's obligations to them, but do not want to do so. The state should force banks to sell their apartments and other real estates in some way. This would burden the State with additional recapitalisations of banks, and the real estate market would finally begin to be regulated. I want to know: What, in particular, will the state do in this area? What and when will she do appropriate measures? I thank the Minister in advance for his reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member Hršak. We have quite a few activities focused on how to restructure banks, one of these activities is also focused on what to do with the housing market, which is an important factor. The banks also have part of the seized apartments in their balance sheets, and most of them are not seized, but they have it as collateral for certain loans that are treated as bad loans. In this context, we intend to look at this. Our original thinking is that there is no imbalance in Slovenia from a demographic point of view, between how many apartments are in supply, built, and not yet sold and not in use, and on the other hand, how much needs and demand there is for these apartments by the population. We do not see any balance here, but we can see that the market is not actually cleaned for two reasons: on the one hand, the population expects housing prices to fall further, and because this is one of the major transactions during the lifetime of the individual who makes it, they are slightly more cautious and wait a little. On the other hand, the growing unemployment rate — and the certainty and stability of income and employment — makes these decisions a little more cautious. For this reason, we said that we were trying to find the structure by which these apartments would be purchased from banks, transferred and placed in the management of the Slovenian Housing Fund, which has the knowledge and capacity to manage it and also manage it properly, and looked at whether we could give any promoters to eliminate this uncertainty on the part of the population and thereby increase the absorption power of the population. And this kind of accelerant that we are now studying – but we have not yet decided – is going in the direction of whether we can give someone the possibility of a moratorium in the event of unemployment, and then there is no need to pay the part of the loan at the time of unemployment, or whether we can rent the apartment and then at one point the rent turns into a purchase, and then it can become the owner of the rent. We are actually studying these things, but at the same time we are looking at all the other things that need to be looked at so that these things can be carried out. One of the problems we are facing is that there are quite a few of these apartments held by banks under the flag of companies in bankruptcy and cannot collect all the necessary documentation so that these apartments can then be put into use. Here, too, we see how these problems can be patched up. So the problem is multi-layered, we took it as a priority, and we're looking at how to do it. I am counting on us to come up with one structure in due course that will allow this market to somehow come to life, that we can get these apartments out of the dead into some more lively form of capital, that we can start creating some kind of cash flow on it, and that the population can also start to enjoy it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc will now ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Stank Stepišnik, who is on his way so that we can wait a moment. I think the minister even hears and we could just ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As we have been able to understand from the 2013-2014 National Reform Programme and as you have already pointed out several times, one of your most important measures, the Minister-designate, is to allocate state aid to companies in difficulty. By granting state aid to firms in difficulty in Slovenia we have many years of experience, if we are honest, but they are not the best. Huge amounts were allocated to companies that had mostly ended up in bankruptcy than before and the money had gone unnoticed. I hope that we have also learned from this experience and that we will not repeat old mistakes. Moreover, because of the budgetary deficit, we also have very limited financial resources for financial assistance to businesses. On the Committee on the Economy, at the presentation of the National Reform Programme, you said, Minister, that you will not share money by color, but, I quote, "...where the country sees the interest in preserving jobs". End of quote. However, for companies that will be granted financial assistance by the State, there is likely to be at least some initial, independent appreciation that no more money will be invested than the company is worth or will be underinvested in order to make a real shift and only extend its calvary for a few months or for a few years. In the meantime, we pay a whole range of strategic advisory services, some quasi-quisition companies with collectors in tax havens, workers get some wages, and then bankruptcy or liquidation follows, and all traces are erased. Such stories, respected, are hidden in our country behind granted state aid. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: What specific criteria will you apply to the granting of these aids? What will be your key criteria? We're all waiting for Members of Parliament, Directors, workers to tell us: How much will this year and in the coming years of this money be available in the budget and under what conditions? Last: How is the granting of State aid to those undertakings that have already received aid? Will the use of funds already allocated in the past also be revised? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u195	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you so much for asking. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, has decided to assist particularly those companies in difficulties that meet the conditions under the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in difficulty. These are the ones that have perspective and developmental healthy cores. These are the types of services and products that customers, contracting entities and multi-annual contracts have for their services and products. Under these criteria, State aid is intended to strengthen the company, its development, maintain extremely important references, knowledge, staff and jobs. The key reason why the State has to act is in particular to prevent greater economic damage and to preserve jobs. In such a case, we would spend significantly more money from the budget or from the taxpayer's money if, for example, the costs of bankruptcy of the company were much higher than, say, the current aid. The evidence for this is that a number of companies that have been bankrupted and have become significantly more taxpayers than they would have if they had acted in a timely manner because of the irresponsible behaviour of the owners, the failure of the banks of creditors and the independence of the State or policy. These types of aid may only be granted to the undertaking once within a period of 10 years, except in exceptional cases where they must be notified by the European Commission. It is still true that, in the first place, owners save businesses. If the owners cannot, then the banks of the creditors, suppliers and other stakeholders involved in the production processes of the company. It is only the third country to step up aid to companies when the damage is greater in order to prevent this greater damage than would have been an investment or aid to that company. The aim and purpose is in particular to prevent too much damage and to preserve jobs. Slovenian companies have been overcapitalised in the last period and, due to their obligations to banks of creditors, they have not been able to invest in development, research and update. Therefore, they are becoming less competitive on the market. We are aware of this pressing problem and, with State aid, we want to prevent unnecessary consumption of tax money. Banka Slovenije, as you know, conducted an analysis of 257 Slovenian companies and identified those companies to be rescued. Companies are very different, so there is also a different way to solve them. However, the fact is that many companies are resilient and it would be a great shame that companies continue to decline as intensively as they have in previous years. There were too many jobs lost, only too many legal interests were expressed. It was not enough to see whether healthy production cores could be maintained and which can later be developed into small or medium-sized enterprises with additional assistance and financial assistance from other funds. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we face daily requests from companies for assistance. It is precisely because companies are so different that the approach to each company is individual; it is said that an agreement is signed between banks that are creditors, between the undertaking and between the country, where applicable, for state aid or State guarantee given to banks that are creditors and that they give liquidity credit. And in the second phase, if the owners are unable to do so, they convert their credit into equity. In this way, companies receive an appropriate capital structure, equity increases, debt decreases or credit, and the company is currently less burdened by interest payments and annuity to banks. You know that recently or in 2012, banks have withdrawn or withdrawn two and a half billion money from companies to return syndicated loans abroad. This is an extremely large collection of money for these companies. Today, almost all good, successful export companies find themselves in liquidity traps or liquidity cramps, not unless they have money for development and research or expansion. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u198	Again: Thank you very much. Dear Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that these answers raise new and new questions. For example, how much is one job worth to you to protect and for how long? Some assessment must be made, as investing money in the existing situation and, as a result, pooring the resources to create new jobs must be supported by some concrete data. What are the guarantees that in disregard of the rules, or if anything goes wrong, you will be paid back? To allow the State to buy back a company for EUR 1 after having a negative value or having a domestic debt greater than its assets, this is no protector, that is to say, a greater damage to taxpayers. We all know there, Novoles, Lipo, not least Cimos had received state aid years ago but that there would be no mistake, Minister! [[...]] In the Slovenian People's Party, we fully agree that we are trying to help companies. We just want these aids to be in line with European rules, to review the business, to carry out a careful review and appreciation of the company, so that as a country we know where we are giving money, and that then money is really spent on those parts of the company that have a good programme that only survives. That is why I ask you in particular, Mr. Secretary-General: Will there be special supervision over the use of these funds and who will carry out this control? What happens if one year from now the problem remains the same and millions of euros lost? Dear Minister: Who will take responsibility? Thanks again for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u199	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you very much. It is precisely because of these financial schemes, in order to help businesses, those who are in difficulty, that we are very cooperative with banks, especially our SID Bank. During this time, we have created funds for medium-sized and large-scale enterprises for the preparation of indicative amounts for guarantees, for loans, for revolving funds. Like a fund worth 150 million euros, which would be available to small and medium-sized enterprises in the SID Bank. It would also be available, for example, a fund of up to €500 million for loans for turnover and up to €1 billion for guarantees. We are also preparing assistance from various investment funds, for technological development and research assistance. At a recent visit to Slovenia, the European Commission also made it clear that it is the primary task of owners, other private investors, including foreign investors, and the creditor. According to the European Commission, the Slovenian market is very intertwined and interdependent. We have seen this in the case of Cimos, for example, which has a total of EUR 110 million in purchases from various small, micro and medium-sized enterprises in Slovenia. Participants are financially weak and often in difficulty, while the European Commission's market is not always open to foreign investors under equivalent conditions. Slovenian companies need more foreign investment in this situation, that is to say, foreign direct investment is too small for Slovenia because it has only 12 billion. This depends on the social gross product only 30 %, some countries have more than 100 % of the social gross product of foreign direct investment. It is primarily the responsibility of commercial banks to invest state money in the company because they make loans and converts. However, it will also be a responsibility on the Agency's part whether it will be the Company for carrying out bank claims, DUPT, or whether it will be the Slovenian State holding company. In any case, there is a risk. I can't tell you 100% that this money will all come back. However, I am sure that 100% of the companies whose owner will become a state will sell for a much larger amount than they would sell today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u202	Yeah. The granting of state aid to companies seems to me to be one of the very, very important measures to revive the economy. That is why I think this topic deserves a broader debate, because one of the very important things to be aware of is that State aid is an intervention by a country which, on the other hand, also constitutes unfair competition for other industries. Therefore, it is necessary to take a particular look at the business and arrange for any errors in management or worse in order to determine what the company has brought into difficulty and also to identify the criminal and compensation liability of the management boards and, in particular, the supervisory boards. Over the last 20 years, we have seen all too many cases where huge amounts of money have gone unnoticed and companies haven't had much of it. One such case is the Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which has run into several billions of euros in two decades, and today the reality is that no one wants to do it for free because of the credit lines that have been imported. In short, if the new government wants to revive this concept of sustaining companies, which is very good in theory, in practice it requires as much transparency as possible and particularly transparency, and conditions need to be very clearly defined by dates, with the expected achievement of objectives and so on. I am convinced that this topic should also be discussed in more detail by the National Assembly, because it is the money of all citizens and citizens and they deserve to have as much information as possible. I therefore propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly conducts a broader debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Prevc. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the votes. Mr Andrej Čuš will now ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers present, including the Minister, a nice greeting! To begin with, I will borrow or quote a few words of a letter that all of us Members of the National Assembly received a few days ago from the Nefix Institute: "We are young at the greatest potential and capital of the country, but young people are not only a future, but we are also a present. Educated, prepared, motivated, ambitious, full of ideas and energy, we wait too long" – or wait – "for the first job." All statistics that appear in the media as well as do not appear show one thing: young people go with a belly for bread abroad. When I look at everything, not just economic and economic indicators, I have to say that I fully understand them. Someone to work here for 600 euros goes to neighbouring Austria and works immediately automatically for a thousand 500 euros. And he gets a job. It's not here. Statistics are therefore worrying today, and the country is investing a lot of money in youth education. Parents and society rightly expect the activation of knowledge and young people want to find their place in society, but unfortunately there is no employment. I am fully aware of the economic situation we are in in this country, but we rightly expect young people to move forward. Here, too, as an example of good practice, I would point out the previous government, which, for example, used the First Challenge project to spend over 20 million European grants and to enable the first employment of 3,000 young people. That's why I have a question for Mrs. Digač Dark: What will the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities do to increase youth employment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u205	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. The problem of youth unemployment is certainly one of the more pressing issues in the economic situation in our country, everyone in this Chamber and also in the ministry and everyone else is aware of this problem. The fact is that data are worrying when we look at 2012, youth unemployment has increased from 20.6%, while in Europe the average was 22.9%, so we are still below the average, but the key and most worrying is that it has increased from December 2011 to December 2012 – so we know when – this rate of unemployment has increased from 15.9% to 23.3%. This has happened in view of the deepening recession in our country and given the fact that we do not have enough jobs. The most problematic among young people is that the unemployment rate of those most educated is increasing. There are several reasons for this. The imbalance between supply and market demand alone is one, the other is the decline in economic activity, the lack of new jobs, and we must not hide our eyes from the scope of student work, which is the problem. We know what happened to the student work, that's one of the priorities this year for this area to be settled. As you mentioned, including the previous government and the previous one, everyone is always trying with available resources, so it is primarily an active employment policy, to take measures to alleviate the situation of young people. Thus, the first response was a good programme, and it will continue, like the entrepreneurship world, like the programme where training is combined in the workplace, where three months are paid and then the possibility of a subsidy for employment continues. We need to know that some 95 million are available under the active employment policy and that about one quarter of young people are involved in these active employment policies. But the fact is, when we face this growing problem of youth unemployment, that these programmes will not be enough, we are trying to find additional resources within the means to ensure the employability of young people. We are preparing a new Youth Mentoring Programme which will promote intergenerational cooperation by transferring the knowledge of older workers to young people who will receive their first job in this context. So I think it's pretty well set up, and I think it'll have some effects. Because of the situation we are in, we are also thinking about accelerating the employment of young people by also taking a general measure to reduce the cost of youth employment. Earlier, a new pension and disability law had already been mentioned, which had indeed reduced up to 26 years of age the cost of employers by 50% for the first year, but this only applies to the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance, and we are thinking mainly in order to exempt employers from the payment of contributions if they hire a young unemployed person. Here we think intensively and realize that young people are the future and that for them we need to find means and also ways to create employment opportunities. But the fact is that these measures that we have at our disposal, these millions that are available, have a limited opportunity, especially we need economic growth in this country, a better economic situation, then we will be much better off for all, including young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u207	Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you for the first part of the answer. With your answers, however, I think it would be wise to think about measures that would allow young people to become better acquainted with and connect with at least three potential employers during the educational process. Besides, I know that this is not more of a direction for you, but for Mr Pikal, but I would like to refer to the student work as you yourself mentioned in the discussion below. You were Secretary of State to Minister Svetlik, if I'm not mistaken when such a notorious proposal was made. I must say that I was happy and without any difficulty in campaigning against the Small Work Act, because you probably know that the law was not most optimally prepared. On the one hand, in the same form of employment or work not only included students and students, including pensioners, unemployed, foreigners, so according to some healthy logic, young people were already deprived immediately because of ignorance of the labour market and also experience. [[...]] So I was wondering when you were saying, So is there any concrete reform of student work that is promising? I am also aware that changes are needed, and I hope that you will not follow the path which Mr Svetlik has chosen and taken. And of course: What will these changes be? I believe, however, that many other social partners in the youth sector will be happy to help, but only to approach dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u209	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you. I agree that there is an absolute need for greater interlinkages between education and work in order to improve the employment opportunities of unemployed young people. The Fund for the Development of Personnel and Scholarships in Slovenia has several such projects, which are not insignificant, especially the development of competent centres, a lifelong career orientation, where these career orientations are also promoted within universities, and education and training of employees. Also, that training programme in the workplace is in fact allowing students, when they finish, to become more connected with their future potential employer and, at the same time, to grant a subsidy if this employer chooses to work after this training. So a few such mechanisms already exist, but of course the situation is such that it seems that these mechanisms are not enough. As I said before, the situation in the economy is crucial. One such measure in this financial perspective, which is currently under way, was those grants for the deficit professions granted under regional development agencies. The aim was to grant some 4 000 500 of these scholarships in this rejection of this financial perspective, but unfortunately, from 2008 until now we have 3 000. So there is still no interest, or some space and money is still available to make this happen more effectively. As far as student work is concerned, it is absolutely necessary to redecorate this work in a way that students will have something of it, especially in terms of formal work experience. Personally, however, I would very much like students to work there and for what they are trained to do in order to link this to the system of traineeships in our country. That way we have a few ideas. With them we prepare starting points and then in dialogue with civil society, both students and social partners, we will look for solutions that will be acceptable. But I must also say in this place that I know how little work has been adopted, no marriage ever and ideal; but now that I am talking to students, most often also from their side, that they may not regret now that they do not have this student work, that they do not consider their work experience, that they do not consider themselves in the working period for short-term pensions, is not the story so black-and-white. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. You want procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u212	With the many things you've said, I agree. There is a need for concrete steps and reforms of the student work, or obviously we do not share the same views, but if everyone were to think the same way, then I do not know what would happen to this country. However, I think that at least in that part of the young population that still believes in politics, which believes in the institutions of the rule of law, which also sees us on the third programme of the Television of Slovenia, we need to give them the opportunity to know that they are also being discussed here and that we are defending their rights. I would therefore take advantage of my right and, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, propose that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chus. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the votes. Now he's gonna be a magician. Stefan Tisel asked the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Mr Stank Stepišnik and the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u214	Good-bye to all of you. Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Honourable Ministers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I will first ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Stank Stepišnik, about the acceleration of activities in the area of the forest and forest chain in Slovenia, and in the second part to Minister Židan. The forests are our main or only strategic wealth in Slovenia, in addition to perhaps good water. Of course, it is also a renewable resource, so that we have enough of this wealth, but we do not know how to manage it well. Perhaps from the point of view of environmental protection, it is said that it offers us good air, good environment, water maintenance and the like, but we work with it quite recklessly and uneconomically. Most of the wood is still exported to neighbouring countries, particularly Austria, where the wood is measured worse, the barks are measured and the like, which, of course, they use for energy while we do not have it in Slovenia, and then products or semi-products are exported to Slovenia and sold expensively in foreign shops. Wood could also be used more cost-effectively in construction, where a higher percentage of wood would also yield better benefits for higher energy savings in buildings, especially in public buildings, so that more wood could be used in this industry, add value and thus offer more employment to domestic people. We have heard that a project of six wooden centres is being prepared, so, Mr. Minister for Economic Development and Technology, I am interested in: What will you do, that more wood will stay at home, that the wood will also be better paid at home, that the wood will be burned at home, that it will be processed at home, that the energy part of the wood will remain at home, because it is a renewable source, and that more jobs will be available in Slovenia on this account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Magus first. Stepan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you. Indeed, the forest is not doing well, as we are now correcting the economic situation, it will probably be necessary to repair the timber processing industry that has passed over the last 15 years to the lowest possible degree of processing. We're simply exporting the logs, and everything that's in the middle of other technologies has somehow been destroyed. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we are aware that wood for Slovenia is a strategic raw material, covering more than 60% of Slovenian territory and is our natural, sustainable source and advantage, that we still have much unused potential and that Slovenian wood needs to be converted into products with as much added value as possible in Slovenia. In Slovenia, despite the forest-forest chain’s wealth, unfortunately, they are not working together, there is no greater cooperation among its players, and measures must therefore be addressed simultaneously and along the entire forest-forest chain. Therefore, at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, we have drawn up an action plan to increase the competitiveness of the forest-forest chain by 2020, aimed at linking the forest-forest chain and making better use of the potential of Slovenian forests, increasing the added value of wood within the forest-forest sector and improving the competitiveness of the wood-processing sector and laying the foundations for the development of new wood-use technologies and services related to timber. Here I would also mention that we have lost more than 20,000 jobs, and these 20,000 jobs need to be recovered with time and with the project. The Action Plan was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and is the result of a one-year work of a broad professional working group of forest-forests, in which experts from the economy, forestry, chambers, educational institutions, institutes and ministries worked. We'll upgrade and continue. The Forest Action Plan is a good one with a wide range of measures or concrete activities along the forest-forest chain, with measures and deadlines for implementation where possible, and measures are also financially evaluated. General measures are 6, forest management 2 measures, 6 activities; wood processing industry 8 measures, 19 activities; energy use of wood biomass 3 measures and 6 activities. During the first successful activities related to the preparation and implementation of the Action Plan, work on the amendments to the Forest Act would be highlighted in particular with a view to establishing a model of forest management that will ensure as much wood processing as possible in Slovenia. By amending the Green Public Procurement Regulation, at least 30% or at least 15% of wood plus 15% of other environmentally friendly material with eco-label 1 or 2 was specified in the public procurement segment of certain types of buildings. In the field of development in the wood industry, three development centres of the Slovenian economy have been set up, co-financed by €25.6 million in 2014, with European funds plus domestic resources. In addition to these three centres, at least 70 research and development projects along the forest and forest chain have been or are still ongoing in Slovenia since 2011. The forestry industry is recognised as an important sector under the Slovenian Industrial Policy by 2020. The entire forest-forest chain is also at the starting point for the preparation of the Slovenian Development Strategy 2014-2020, which will be the basis for drawing on the European Structural Funds 2014-2020. In line with these guidelines, arrangements are already under way for the establishment and financing of integrated wood processing centres for the period 2014-2020, which will also include a wood processing component for the production of wood products of high value added, as well as an energy component for the use of wood waste. In 2012, the ecosystem offered grants to invest in the energy renovation of citizens' buildings, as well as in 2013, as they offer 20 million euros in subsidies. At MGRT in 2013, we provided 200 000 euros to promote the use of wood between the general population and young people. Of course, we will continue to actively implement all the other measures set out in the Action Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u218	Thanks for the answer. Although it sounds nice, in practice it's much worse. Let me tell you a case. The cabin of the Mountain Rescue Service burned down and the money was quickly received, there was no problem, 10 thousand. Even the merchant who was supposed to supply wood for the new construction received EUR 10 000, when he asked for Slovenia to get 5m logs – in two months he did not get one offer! They're all exporting to Austria because they have contracts from last year. Then he barely got the wood from his contacts so he could do it. So much possible for illustration as it is in practice. I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture about what we are talking about several times – about concessions. We know that wood stocks in Slovenia are about 327 million cubic metres, an increase of about 4 cubic meters per capita, says 8 million annually. 74% are private forests, 24% are state forests, and 2% are local communities. Privates somehow save and don't cut, maybe save for bad times or because they're bad prices, while sex in state guests where there's such low concessions, it's fun to go. I'll ask the Minister what I've done several times: Which direction does the Ministry intend to amend or supplement legal acts, such as the Concession Regulation and the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, and the like, that there will be more income for the country, for the local community and for the local population, for example, for local entrepreneurs and farmers who would have this additional activity on farms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u219	Thank you. Mag. Thirsty, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u220	Dear President, honourable Members and other Members present! Thank you for the important question which speaks of one of the few of our natural treasures. Although two ministries are responsible for this area, as in most European countries, I can say that at least from 2010 onwards, whoever the minister is, they are changing, these two ministries are working well together. As a result, the Forest Strategy is also a beautiful one, which began to be prepared in 2010-2011, was adopted last year, and is now being implemented – and also some other measures. What I'd like to point out here is this. As far as concessions are concerned, concessions are being phased out. It is true that new ones will be awarded in 2016, and a new system needs to be developed by then. We intend to change the forest law into two steps; the first step that will come to you at any time, honourable Members and Members, is the implementation of the traceability directive, which will be essential to us. In fact, we need to get on the toes of black-cut, black-sale and black-exporters. The second part of the amendment to the law, which will allow the tendering of concessions, will take place in such a way that the starting points will be aligned this year. My personal preference is triple. Firstly, the forest must also continue to be managed in a sonar way, i.e. not naked and similar invasive practices. Secondly, when it comes to the state forest, the State must have an effect. If I say more banal, we want more money so that we can maintain the forest and buy a new forest. And thirdly, the product of the concession cannot be a cold that goes somewhere else, but a product that gives some added value. This year we have implemented and implemented the following measures: firstly, last year, but also now, these measures allowing investment in the forest. Secondly, this is an innovative measure. The tender for forest centres, €6 million, is about to end. Our conduct makes sense in the country to establish such centres between 8 and 11. So, the first two – for six million euros is a call, this is a test. If it turns out to be a good experiment and has an effect, we will proceed immediately. Last but not least at this point, although concessions will only expire in 2016, we coordinate coordination between those in need of Slovenian wood and those in need of concessionaires. One of these coordination meetings is being held this week. At these meetings, we agreed on something else that we might wish to transfer some good foreign practice to Slovenia. Part of this is the arrangement for a visit, which has already been confirmed, by the Finnish Minister with his team in Slovenia, also with a view to making some greater cooperation in the field of forest and wood. Why Finland? Because in Europe Finland may even be the best example, but how can it be [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Home Affairs and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u222	Madam President, thank you for the question. I would like to raise a question about the current measures taken by the new government. In particular, I would ask the Minister of Public Administration and Home Affairs a question in the context of reducing the fixed costs of our country. As we know, negotiations are now under way in which salaries of public servants have been severely reduced. Even as a professor, you've always talked about strong management in public administration. With such reduced salaries, it is difficult to continue to manage quality management in public administration. Therefore, as Minister of Public Administration, I ask you above all: Will you reduce wages only for the salaries of public servants or also for fixed material costs? This is mainly due to the rationalisation of transport, public administration air transport and, above all, officials. As we know, the public administration also carries out a large number of air services. As a Member, I have observed a number of costs incurred by the National Assembly for the travel of our Members in the European Union and also outside the European Union. That's why I'm asking you as a Member. First question: What are the costs of air transport for public servants and officials in relation to the air mile? Second question: In 2010 and 2012, the total costs of air transport for public servants and officials were at stake? Question three: What measures will you take to rationalise and save on air transport for public servants and officials? First of all, I'm asking you as Minister of Public Administration. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u223	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u224	Thank you very much. It is true, as you have found, that in this year's year after the signing of the agreement, which we now have in one hour, there is considerable interference in public sector wages. This intervention will also apply in the following year, savings in this year will roughly include the effects of the already adopted ZUJF around 190 million in this year, 260 million in the following year and in fact public servants, and most of all officials, including you and I, will cancel one part of the salary. Saving and reducing public spending will also be necessary in the material costs segment. Many measures have also been implemented here in recent years, including measures in the field of rationalisation and savings in the air transport of public officials and officials, the first of which was adopted in 2009. In this context, for example, it is up to the Government to use regular lines for flights abroad and only in exceptional cases can it rent an aircraft. Then a joint public contract, where, on behalf of all budgetary users using the State budget, the Ministry of Finance negotiates with the air carrier on transport prices and is also a rational design of delegations. Therefore, the principle is that in each delegation travelling abroad, the ministers are accompanied by a maximum of two co-workers and the Secretary of State at most by one co-worker, and it is also clear that these official travels are determined as selectively as possible to be as few as possible. And that's probably the biggest savings here. We do not have concrete data for a mile, very sophisticated calculations would be needed here. But I can tell you the total data for 2010, 2011 and 2012. In 2010 it was used for all costs of transport abroad – air, taxi, metro - 6 million 576 thousand 484, for 2011 6 million 463 thousand 610 and for 2012 3 million 933 thousand 842 [[...]] As you can see, costs decreased significantly in 2012.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u226	In particular, I would need information from a public servant in relation to a mile carried by plane. Above all, I am interested because I have also observed the prices paid by the National Assembly in relation to air transport to our national carrier, Adria Airways. As we know, this is a national carrier that has experienced multiple recapitalisations in recent years, the last recapitalisation is, I think, more than 50 million euros. That's why I'm asking you because you've shown some incredible ingenuity here when it comes to your private and, above all, family prices, which you've chosen as a former official, by which you flew, for example, within the European Union for price in the first grade – for those who don't know, not in the first grade, but in the first class; for example, as an MEP I always fly in the economic class, and you flew in the first class for prices between 100 and 150 euros. These are the data you have dedicated to the press, the media and us, former fellow Members. First of all, you have shown incredible ingenuity, so I am somehow putting these prices on your heart, so that you can also choose these prices for our public officials and reduce in this context some of the fixed costs that the state has. In this case, fixed material costs could be reduced and the costs of transporting officials should not be reduced. At this point, I think it's very interesting for soldiers, customs officers, police officers and all the other participants. On the other hand, since you have always been the bearer of some higher moral and ethical standards in the National Assembly, because as a former official of this price, you have had to recapitalize yourself with our national carrier, which people, with the lowest incomes, have always had to recapitalize again and again, I ask you: Are you going to step down as Minister of Public Administration in accordance with these moral standards, or are you going to continue your course in your case? So, this system, these vats exist, but it's different. It's a simple question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u227	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u228	But now the question is sailing in another direction. As regards the agreement with the national carrier for tickets for public servants and officials, this is the domain of the Ministry of Finance. So, the joint public procurement for the public administration or for the users of the state budget is implemented by the Ministry of Finance, the Directorate of Public Procurement and the right address for this, I would say that a bit of pressure is being exerted to do the best possible price, of course, is there. The second part of the question concerns the period when I was not in any public function but a purely ordinary citizen and would refrain from answering that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You want procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u230	In fact, I asked three questions: What are the costs per mile? I asked the question: What were the total costs? I got a partial answer for him. I asked the third question, in which I spoke about joint measures for rationalisation and savings in air transport. I didn't get an answer to these two questions. All I got was an answer to another question. How many of you have flown as a former official with commercial carriers – I don't care. However, if you were transporting at abnormally low prices as a former public official with our air carrier, which is state-owned, that is of course of interest to me. This is of interest to me, but mainly to taxpayers, citizens and citizens. Now it is vacation time, and I think that some would fly across and outside the European Union at prices of EUR 100 or 150 in the first class. I think these are important questions. Of course, in accordance with Rule 2 of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask that we open a public debate and discuss these matters. I think that this is some fundamental right, and this is also my procedural proposal, the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr. Breznik. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the votes. Ms Sonja Ramšak, Minister for Defence Roman Jakić, will now raise the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues who are present in the Chamber and, of course, a special greeting to the Minister of Defence! Since its creation, the Slovenian army has been confronted with numerous reorganisations, transformations and changes in personnel, leaving a certain mark on the employees themselves. We are also facing a new transformation of the Slovenian Army, which, according to the Military, Defence and Protection Union, is causing new illegal behaviour by those responsible in the Slovenian Army. You have been alerted to these actions by a special letter, which has also been sent to all Members and Members of Parliament for information. A new organisational structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces has been defined by a command to transform the Slovenian Armed Forces to enable the effective implementation of missions and tasks, the achievement of objectives, the balanced development of planned capacities, the more cost-effective operation and the more rational use of human resources and financial resources. In the past, reorganisations have also affected the rights and obligations of employees and members of the permanent staff, as well as of civilians employed in the Slovenian Army and the Ministry. Many complaints were lodged about the acts issued on new duties in accordance with the new formations, to which the Ministry of Defence or the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces did not always respond in accordance with the rules, and therefore employees had to seek the right to work in the courts, which, as you know, you and I both know, to act ineffectively and in particular slowly. The Military, Defence and Protection Union, as a representative union, mainly draws attention to some contentious conduct of individuals in the command structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The most important issue in this transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces is certainly the issue of the competence of recruitment in the Slovenian Army, with the leadership of the said union pointing out in particular that they only recruit selected individuals without clear guidance and, above all, without proper supervision, which the union considers to be causing a number of new lawsuits. The Slovenian army enjoys very high confidence in the public and between citizens and citizens. With the loss of defence resources, we have also resorted to the area which I hope will be interrupted in the future by this practice and that the Slovenian Army will be able to carry out its tasks in accordance with legislation. So, in spite of all of this, I'm asking you: How do you respond to the obvious leadership of the Military, Defence and Protection Union to the purpose of transforming the Slovenian Army to conceal the situation? According to the trade union, the Slovenian Army is expected to have both human resources and materially highly nourished. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u233	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u234	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. An apology for not answering the oral question concerning the organisation of regional information centres. You'll get it in writing, I apologize for having an urgent obligation outside the house, but we'll send it in writing. As far as the issue of the Slovenian Army is concerned, I must say that the consequences of this economic and financial crisis also affect the Slovenian Army, as detailed in the 2012 report on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which I also took note of as the first Minister of Defence, the Defence Committee of which you are a member. On the basis of that report, I can point out once again that the Slovenian Army has undoubtedly taken over its part of the burden of the crisis facing the country and that the reduction of the financial resources for the military has already affected the state of its readiness. In this context, I can attach to the finding of the union, which you have summarised in your question that the Slovenian Army is both humane and materially malnourished, but of course this sub-nutrition of the Slovenian Army was significantly greater if we did not implement these sharp austerity measures within. The process of transformation of the military, as you know, began intensively at the end of 2012 in the time of the previous government – rightly, there is no criticism. At that time, the commanders of the forces, the commanders for doctrine and the reshaping of the strategic and operational level of command were essentially followed by guidelines and recommendations to reduce the number of command levels, reduce the administrative apparatus and consequently release more members of the Slovenian Armed Forces for operational and combat tasks. But the basic guidance really led to the content of this plan, which was made in December. It was precisely the definition of processes, the delimitation of powers and the activities of individual commanders and units and organisational units at the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces during the period up to 15. 5. When this first stage of transformation was completed to the extent that we could see these new formations built on the day of the Slovenian Army in Maribor. The Chief-General of the General Staff, to whom I am not involved in his professional decision, has stated to me that, with the transformation and planned changes of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the coming period in the field of human resources, there will be a more favourable situation between employees, officers and soldiers, which we have been talking about all the time, as a result of the reduction in the number of officers and the increase in the number of soldiers will reduce the burden on the cost of work and the available mass for wages, which, while maintaining the current level of financial resources, will also represent more resources for the purchase of urgently needed equipment and maintenance of existing techniques, maintaining the existing number of members in international missions and peace-support operations, and the smooth implementation of obligations towards international organisations and alliances, of course, under the assumptions and plans for certain reductions, despite all the reduction, the number of our troops in foreign missions. If I may further say that the implementation of each reorganisation is subject to certain risks, it at the same time brings with it certain expectations and fears of those to which it relates. This is also the case with the so-called transformation of the Slovenian Army, so we have noted in letter 10 of the Military, Defence and Protection Syndicate. 4. take it very seriously. The management of the Ministry and the Slovenian Armed Forces, with its problems exposed on Friday, 17. 5. At the same time, I have asked the General Staff to prepare explanations for the contents of the letter and to carry out activities in a manner that will ensure that the staff are informed in a timely manner and, above all, that the procedures for distribution by new organisational structures are transparent and in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u235	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u236	Thank you for these introductory explanations. I also somehow support the transformation of the Slovenian Army, as has been adopted and proposed by the current Chief of Staff along with his team. In fact, I am convinced that it brings positive movements in the Slovenian Army and that it sets up a structure that corresponds to the Republic of Slovenia and also to human and material resources. You have already said yourself that you have asked the competent authorities to check the indications contained in this letter. In fact, as we know, the Military, Defence and Protection Union has also informed certain competent, including the Commander of the Slovenian Army, of the alleged violations. I hope that it will prove that these violations are not or are more relevant to certain indications that do not have a basis in the facts themselves. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Defence, not only in military work but also in administrative work, has repeatedly violated relevant labour legislation in the past, and I hope that you, as Minister, will ensure that these illegalities will not occur. And I'm also asking you: In what way will you prevent members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces from performing tasks outside the job description or duties of the Slovenian Armed Forces? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u238	I thank you for the additional question. As I said, I fully believe in the General Staff's expertise, and I'm not politically involved in it. As you know, the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Chief of General Staff, is the highest professional authority within the Ministry, and I trust them that the reorganization process has been done in a legal, transparent manner, and above all that information has been transmitted within the Slovenian Armed Forces itself in such a way that everyone knows what they are doing and that all the tasks of command have also been shared. There were three eyewitnesses, not knowing in fact what the structure of the command is, that the decisions were not properly issued, including the recruitment of jobs, and that there was no information, either vertically or horizontally, within the Slovenian Army itself. When I received a more extensive letter, which was sent to me, it was on the day of the Slovenian Army. 5. The union published this call or observations on the Ministry of Defence’s website – because the union has the power to publish such things – I immediately informed or called the Chief of Staff and gave him the task of responding to all the findings. I expect that, just as they were effective in establishing this new reorganisation, which, in fact, follows, as you said, not only the financial or economic problems of this country, but the consequences of the philosophy of an operationally well-trained and good small army, that they will also be able to explain this to me as the Minister of Defence in response to the reports given by the union. And I, as a stiff legalist, will demand that everything be within the legal framework. Therefore, in this letter, I was most struck by the impression that something had been done was illegal. In the last part, when they're talking about commanding it in a way that's like a coup, because no one knows who's giving it to anyone, I've been very strict and I've been demanding very clear answers. We will also provide you with these answers in writing. In any case, we will also reply publicly to the unions what we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u239	Thank you. You want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I must say that I am pleased with your answers, but given that we very much like to stress that the Slovenian Armed Forces are people and that this is an extremely sensitive topic, I would like a broader debate to take place in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Perhaps even if the initiatives are meant to be written, a concrete analysis will be carried out within the Committee on Defence, together with you and the representatives of the trade union and the competent members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, when the results of your analyses will also be known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the votes. Mr Branko Smodiš will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, mag. Stan Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u242	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Tourism is one of the most important economic or strategic sectors that creates new jobs and has a markedly positive impact on balanced regional development. This is also indicated by the 2012 Statistics Office when, for example, the number of foreign tourists was record-breaking. The former Government adopted the Slovenian Tourism Development Strategy 2012-2016. The main objective of the strategy was to increase the volume of tourism activities, tourism, i.e. the income and profits generated by catering and tourism activities, the number of tourists and the number of overnight stays. The Slovenian tourism organisation was recently joined by the Spirit Joint Agency. We have already questioned the relevance of the integration of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation into such an organisational structure, not for reasons of integration into the common services, but in terms of ensuring priority. Indeed, the question arises whether the priority of the institution is to promote foreign investment, technological development or tourism. Let me remind you that the coalition contract states that the revision of the merger of the Technology Agency, Japan and the Slovenian Tourist Organization into Spirit will take place. As a longtime tourism worker, I am firmly convinced that we need to re-establish the independent tourism organisation that we have been building for many years as soon as possible. The fact is that tourism is one of the few sectors that also register growth during the crisis. Therefore, I believe that the country should pay such high priority attention to the industry and not make it difficult to develop Slovenian tourism with various reckless moves. I want to know: As the competent minister, do you believe that the merger of the Slovenian Tourist Organisation under the auspices of Spirit was justified? Has the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology already carried out any analysis showing the impact of the abolition of the independent tourism organisation on Slovenian tourism in terms of the implementation of the strategy for the promotion of Slovenian tourism and cooperation between different tourism actors? What are the Government's priorities for promoting tourism in the development areas at risk in 2013 and 2014? Thank you kindly for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u244	Thank you so much for asking. In these two months, we do not yet have some analysis and experience of what has occurred with regard to this new Spirit organization, which brings together the Japs, the TIA and the WTO. I'd say my first picture at the Ministry is that some things double up. Since they are doubling, it would make sense to reorganise and unite. Last year, I spoke to former Minister Zerjav, who was most hit by the headaches because they went to join these three organizations, the WTO, the Japs and the TIA. He says they've been reorganizing with people for over six months, and they haven't done much on the content. My first task cannot be, now that an organization has been set up, to go break it down and spend six months or a year again to move people and do nothing on the content. We have focused on the Ministry of the Economy to work primarily on the content of this year or this mandate. In any case, it is observed what is happening to this new organization, Spirit. I think that they have now somehow caught themselves, found themselves, and have begun to work intensively in these three areas and are also covered by the Directorates of the Ministry of Economy with professional assistance. So I have to say that so far there is no experience on the negative effects of merger. At least we will continue to leave the organization as it is, and we will work primarily on the content. Second question, about the assistance of tourism. For this year, the budget is estimated at around €7 million for promotion in Spirit. We will somehow achieve this plan, although it was €4 million somewhere, but with additional money we will arrive, as in last year 2012 at €8 million in aid for the promotion of tourism in Slovenia. Data for the first three months also show that there were more overnight stays in Slovenia and that the tourism picture was better than the first three months of last year. So we hope that this year's plan will be fully achieved and even exceeded by 1% as planned to increase tourism revenues. However, tourism is an activity that affects the balanced economic development and well-being of the population and has high multiplier effects on other economic activities. This is why the financial platform from 2014 to 2020 is meant to make major investment projects, including in tourism, to create new jobs, or to invest in economic investment, particularly in regional synergies. In this case, the multiple effects would have effects both in agriculture, the economy and trades and ultimately in tourism. For example, if Murska Sobota finds that the comparative advantage of Prekmurje is geothermal energy and will invest enough investment in drilled holes, where there is enough hot water, then it can develop either tourism or food supply or energy supply of cities. Tourism, however, plays its part in thermal activities. In 2013, we do not have the public invitations to promote tourism infrastructure, since all available resources for this purpose have already been invested in the development of tourism infrastructure throughout Slovenia from a new financial perspective 2007-2013. This was the co-financing of investment projects in the field of tourism, where good results were recorded. A well-balanced regional development was one of the main and achievable objectives of the call for proposals. The forecasts for this year are also very promising. Plans for the new financial perspective of the Structural Funds 2014-2020 are under preparation and therefore concrete planned investment measures in tourism are not yet planned.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You still want a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u246	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am quite pleased, but I would still ask you to reconsider the independence of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, because unfortunately Slovenia is not recognized abroad. This is one of the main drivers for Slovenia to become recognizable and therefore foreign money will also flow. I think tourism is one of the few industries that creates new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Smodish. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u248	We will examine this initiative, and if good results, analyses, we will come to such an organization that Spirit will be reassembled back to entrepreneurship, to the independent form of the organization for tourism, so that money, knowledge can be concentrated and that it can go more into programmes and content for the recognition of Slovenia, which we urgently need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment the question. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u250	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Welcome to the ministers, especially the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, mag. Diane Jedhan. We probably all agree that renewable energy sources are one of the important advantages and also the obligations we have due to the directives and commitments we have made to the European Union. We have done a lot on renewable sources in recent times, but very non-systemic, because we have invested a lot of will, work and financial resources in photovoltaics. I therefore cite some of the facts that mainly touch on investments in small hydro power plants, which are also one of the great opportunities that our country has in the future. In recent years a number of regulations have been adopted that have stopped and even prevented the granting of concessions for small hydropower plants. This is contrary to the directives of the European Union. In the last four years, the national energy programme has been carried out in a highly uncoordinated way with regard to investments in renewable energy sources. Again, we are talking about overinvestment in photovoltaics and great incentives for these energy sources. The fact is that the locations of small hydro power plants are mainly in the space that is empty due to poor survival potential. It is also the existence of rural settlements. There's another fact. The owners of small hydroelectric plants take care of the basic maintenance of dams and hills, which are often damaged by the flood. In Slovenia we have all the necessary knowledge and production opportunities for the construction and reconstruction of small hydro power plants – domestic engineering personnel for the design and production of documentation. We have enough building operations, machinery industries and also electrical industries for the production of equipment. It is therefore a matter of revitalisation, production and reduction of unemployment through investment in these small facilities. In the long term, electricity production with hydro potential is also the cleanest production. I think that we all agree on these facts, and it is therefore unacceptable that the Water Management Plan Regulation for the Danube and the Adriatic Sea has severely restricted the possibility of investing in these facilities and also the possibility of renewing permits for these facilities, in particular in terms of establishing a minimum medium-sized flow or ecological flow defined by 20 cubic litres per second. The second part of this Regulation, which restricted the possibility of new construction in July 2011 to watershed areas covering at least 10 square kilometres of influential precipitation area and which provide for a minimum flow for the construction of a particular power plant 80 litres per second [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u251	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! I'm just going to answer questions, including those that were said without a microphone. First question: How many initiatives do we have on hold? At the moment Arso, the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, is solving 90 initiatives to obtain water rights for direct use of water for small hydropower plants with a power of less than 10 megawatts, and about 50 are expected at Arsa as a departure from the Institute of Waters of the Republic of Slovenia. There are also 20 new applications. By the end of April 2013, ARSO had completed 70 procedures. As has been rightly said, many procedures have ended with a negative decision. The most common reasons for the negative decision are the discrepancies with the Water Management Plan Regulation for the Danube and Adriatic Sea and the non-compliance with spatial legislation, as many municipal spatial acts are still very outdated. When we ask ourselves why the rejection of an application for a regulation can be found that the regulation is very strict and that more movement is needed under this Regulation than in some other regulations. When we look at why such a regulation is often a reference to the Alpine Convention. However, it is true that this is not entirely uniform in terms of professional opinions and that when preparing a new water management plan for the Danube and Adriatic regions, we are talking about a regulation for the period 2015-2021, as regards the existing prohibitions, conditions and restrictions on the use of this Regulation, we will check whether they achieve the objective of good water conditions and whether they do not limit too much economic activity. Before that, I would like to say that, in the existing regulation, which will be in force until 2015, we have not yet decided whether the old regulation, which is currently in force and will be in force for another year, or whether we would also intervene in this area of contribution and administrative procedure. In addition, I would like to explain, honourable Members and Members, that when preparing a new Water Management Regulation, there is no need to take account of the maturity of concessions, since by 22. 12. 2015, this is the date on which the new Regulation is to be drawn up, and none of the concessions currently in force fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u253	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's your supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u254	Thank you, Minister, for those answers. I was running out of time, but the minister was answering, so thank you for that part of the answer. I think it's going in the right direction, but I'm still asking: Will this Regulation affect the possibility of extending individual authorisations for individual power plants? For the original permission was granted without the condition of the influential area 10 kilometers and 80 liters per second. In the next phase, as they extend their operating licences, this Regulation is in force and, in certain cases, this is likely to be an exclusive condition, because I believe that the limit of 80 litres per second for certain areas is unacceptable because it is an economic condition, not a biological minimum. If an investor wants to set up a power plant or a small hydroelectric plant as a complementary activity, these economic reasons, which have led to a minimum of 80 litres, are unlikely to be taken into account. The same applies to an influential area of 10 square kilometres. We know that we have a very dispersed rural area, that we have a lot of valleys, and that this area would exclude the establishment of an power plant in different valleys, which is again from the economic point of view, not from the point of view of nature, a limiting factor. That is why I ask the Minister: Do you think about these aspects? I'll be happy to hear his answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u255	Thank you, Mr. Guilty. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u256	Thank you, Madam President. At the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, we are aware that we need to take into account several regulations relating to the environment in our conduct. One of these is a regulation that discusses the share of renewable energy sources that this country must provide by 2020. There is already a commitment to giving economic, social and environmental efficiency to existing small hydropower plants within the Action Plan for Renewable Energy, in order to enable this objective to be achieved, but not to impose new restrictions. What an old limit, which does not have a professional basis, can be withdrawn. I can make a commitment to prepare a new regulation that will apply from 2015 onwards. This Regulation shall be adopted for the period 2015-2020. However, if there are initiatives to reach out to the existing one, which is in force until then, we will not reject this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs Iva Dimic will now raise the question of a question from the Minister of Justice, Dr Senko Plitchanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u258	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister! The Denationalisation Act entered into force on 7 December 1991. The deadline for submitting denationalisation applications under this Act was 7 December 1993. This year will take 20 years from the deadline for the timely submission of applications in denationalisation procedures. However, all applications submitted are still pending, despite such a long period of time. The latest report of the Ministry of Justice of 31 March 2013 shows that all authorities at the first and second stages set themselves a plan to avoid pending denationalisation cases on the day of submission of the report, 31 March 2013. Nevertheless, administrative units as first-degree bodies still have 155 pending cases. A large number of pending cases are also in the ministries that decide as first-degree bodies. This brings out the Ministry of Culture, which still has 41 pending cases. The ministries that decide on denationalisation procedures as second-degree bodies are the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology still have 107 issues. The Ministry of Justice, in its latest report, lists a high percentage of denationalisation cases that have already been resolved, namely 99%. The Association of Owners of depreciated assets points out that claims remain largely unresolved where the property is of high value and that that percentage does not reflect the actual share of the assets already recovered. Mr. Minister, I ask you: What concrete measures will you take to finally complete the denationalisation procedures and within what time frame? I would like to point out that, despite the large number and content of very difficult denationalisation procedures, some administrative units have decided on all matters years ago. It is clear that certain administrative and national authorities are involved in the lack of will, and in particular the responsibilities of their officers to complete these procedures without undue delay. According to our information, the authorities that decided on denationalisation requests, both ministries and administrative units, had sufficient human and material capacity to manage and decide on these matters. We are aware of the complexity and complexity of these procedures, but we still do not find reasonable reasons why we did not have to complete them in 20 years. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u260	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I agree with the finding, Madam Member, that these 20 years are already far too much, and that this should have been over long ago. I can tell you what I, as the minister in charge of justice, or the ministry I run, can do about it and what it's done and what it's done. As I have found in the answer to one of the previous questions, my powers here are also relatively limited. They are not related to monitoring the situation, monitoring the resolution of matters in denationalisation matters – we are preparing a report for three months in this regard, from which you have also drawn up data that all hold – and secondly, to identify the reasons why this is so, why this is taking so long. According to our findings, there are two main causes. The first relates again, you will not believe, to a court that has been resolving the so-called preliminary questions for too long, on which the solutions are then dependent in the context of judicial proceedings in administrative proceedings relating to denationalisation. Until this matter is resolved by the judiciary, administrative procedures cannot continue. That's the first reason. The second relates to the fact that second-stage bodies, appellate bodies which decide on complaints against first-stage decisions – in general, also on matters of denationalisation – generally return to decision-making at the first stage. However, we should — that is the conclusion of the 12th government. 4. 2007 – to the extent possible, to decide for themselves, in substance, at the second stage, but not in principle, to put the care for the resolution of a matter back to the first stage. They do so mostly, which is unacceptable because there is a decision by the Government that gives direction to the administrative authorities — and this can be done by the Government — how they should decide. We have repeatedly warned and called on the judiciary to speed up procedures related to previous issues. We also call on the other ministries and other authorities, which here have a second-degree authority to act in accordance with the decision of the Government that I have stated. More than I can do as Justice Minister and my associates can't do. However, I think, given that nothing has happened and that, as I recall, even in the past, quite a few such questions have been raised, in mandates when I did not run this ministry, and that in practice not much has happened – there are still many cases still pending, as you, Madam Member, have rightly stated in your question – that the leaders of those decision-makers should act in accordance with their responsibilities and exercise responsibility for those who do not act as they should. This is some way to act when it comes to another of the main reasons why it lasts for so long – this is the return of cases from the second stage to the first, rather than the second step to decide. I think I have said a lot about the judiciary in response to Mr Gorenak's question. I think that there will have to be a lot of change in the judiciary on these issues, I am sure in the short term, in its work, that such procedures will speed up and that the process of denationalisation will finally be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u262	Thanks again. I would only add that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had already adopted several decisions on the completion of denationalisation procedures on 2 March 2006, on what you said, and all ministries were involved in this in 2006. Decisions have also been adopted concerning the redeployment of staff between the authorities, a specific additional payment for officials dealing with the denationalisation procedures. All of this was done. Despite all the decisions taken and certain measures taken to speed up procedures, the cases have not been completed to date and no one has taken any responsibility in this regard. In doing so, let me stress only that delaying procedures for each day of delay results in harmful consequences. In fact, the Denationalisation Act regulates the right of denationalising beneficiaries to compensation for the impossibility of applying it for a period from the entry into force of the law, 7. 12. 1991, until the legal conclusion of the denationalisation procedure. As a rule, recognised compensation claims are high and are paid exclusively from public funds, state and municipal budgets. Although I do not have data on the amount of applications already submitted and the amount of claims already recognised for the impossibility of use, all of us here and also the citizens should have a headache. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Branko Kurnjek, Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u264	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable Members, honourable Members! Mr Infrastructure and Space Minister, firstly, let me say that my question will relate to the possibility and usefulness of introducing a 9-month-old vignette for one-way vehicles, both economically and securityly. The current system, as you know, is such that we have one-week, six-year and annual vignettes for one-way vehicles. In Slovenia, most motor bike drivers do not drive throughout the year, but only in a warmer, so-called motorcycle season, which is still longer than 6 months. Under favourable weather conditions, the season begins somewhere in the middle or at the end of March and ends in the beginning or mid-November. During the total time period, this is 7 to 8 months — more than 6 months and much less than one year. Since the season does not last all year, most decide to purchase a 6-month vignette which cannot cover at least one of the mentioned time periods with its validity. The fact is that in spring and autumn time, two more dangers are faced by motorists in addition to the usual seasonal threats to motorists, namely, the sands of unpolluted local and regional roads in springtime and the leaves that fall off at morning dews on roads represent a deadly combination for drivers of single-wheeled vehicles. Although any motorist would say that the purpose of driving by motor is to enjoy the countryside and ride on local roads, they still use the highway to overcome longer distances. The current vignette system for single-way vehicles, as has already been said, covers three time-limited vignettes, costing 7.5 euros a week, a half-year for 25 euros and a year for 47.5 euros. According to data, thousands of 992 annual and 15 thousand 623 semi-annual vineyards were sold in 2012. Weekly, mostly tourists or transit passengers, 37 thousand 773 were sold. We can clearly see from the data that sales of semi-annual vignettes for one-way vehicles were about 8 times higher than sales of annual vignettes. If we assume that sales of annual vignettes by about 50%, thousands of vignettes, minus 47 thousand 500 euros, and semi-annuals by 8 thousand vignettes, minus 200 000 euros, would fall at the expense of the introduction of 9-monthly approximately 9 thousand vignettes, which would amount to about 333 thousand 300 euros. That would be 85 000 Euro 500 increment. I will continue to do so later, and now I am interested, Mr. Secretary-General: Will you consider introducing 9-month vignettes for one-way vehicles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Thank you for asking. Indeed, the information you provide regarding the pricing policy of vineyards and the three categories of vineyards is exactly as you stated. According to our assessment, it is a relatively favourable price of vineyards and a well-proportionate system. Here we must take into account the fact that targeting motorways from a safety point of view is the right path, which is also advocated by the profession. The results show that road safety is incomparably higher than on local roads. However, we must be aware that the desire of drivers and the pleasure of driving on local roads is what drives them on the road, and highways use only in the case of longer tours. I agree that, especially at present, the situation on local roads is relatively poor in Slovenia. We know the situation. What this winter has left behind — it has not been so for many years. Just to feel that last year we spent 24 million euros on winter maintenance, this year we spent an additional 16, that is almost 40 million euros. The amount of precipitation and the combination were also extremely unfavourable. As regards the introduction of additional wines, we must take into account the proportionality and proportionality that we have committed ourselves to the European Union. With the introduction of a 9-month vignette, we could get to a system where we should end the annual vignette. Price policy and price proportionality would not have a significant impact on stimulation in order for motorists to purchase vignettes with a 9-month period of validity. But there's an additional argument. With annual vignette users actually arrive up to 14 months of use, not up to 12, so, one month before and one month for. So it's also kind of an incentive to buy an annual vignette. On the other hand, the profession was based on the fact that the season lasted 6 months, so a 6-month vignette was also introduced. It's about driver safety. This is where I'd like to relate to the event that took place this weekend. On Saturday, I attended a charity event called The Second That Can't Be Returned. It was a charity event where safe driving courses took place on the Vranska range. I think that education and education are most important for transport security. This begins with an example at home, first in your own home. Primary school is extremely important in education on transport safety, and in the end we, adults, too. I did my own exam 20 years ago, and I can assure you from experience that nothing is as it was then. I want to say that we are adults who must constantly adapt and educate and work on transport safety. On this basis, we are also a real example for everyone else, and I think this address is right for traffic safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u268	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. However we take it, we probably agree that in Slovenia vignettes do not use 14 months because in December and January they probably do not drive much on our roads. The fact is, for example, that if we took the price of about 37 euros per 9-month vignette, this would be purely consistent between 6-month and annual vignette. As a result, those who use annual vignettes would not be deprived of anything. It is also a fact that this is one of the few proposals on which so interested the public could be satisfied, i.e. motorists, single-vehicle drivers, as well as Dars, and consequently the state budget, as this would be greater. Once again, I ask you: Are you prepared or will you be prepared to give concrete thought to my proposal and to substantiate this proposal with numbers? Will you make any calculations, comparisons and possible implementation of this system and, as you yourself said, also with regard to the safety aspect for such a risk group as drivers of one-way vehicles? We know that we already have many fatalities this year, including seriously injured drivers. I think we should do everything for road safety, even with small steps. This is also partly a question for the Minister of Finance and also for the Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. The financial implications that you mention – if the calculations are correct, I will be grateful for your calculations, for the input data and model that you used, and I will give this data and model further to our professional services. If it turns out that, according to some statistics, this means so much and so much more in our budget, this is absolutely welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Zvonko Lah to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stan Stepichnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u272	Dear President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to ask Mr Minister a question about drawing on cohesion funds. Slovenia has a planned budget of around 400 million European funds in 2013. Since your ministry, Mr Stepišnik, is the managing authority responsible for the use of these European funds, I am particularly interested in environmental pumping, given the environmental infrastructure, where we have a full financial perspective of approximately 550 million spending rights and by the end of 2012 only 13% of all resources have been absorbed. These are mainly projects in the areas of decommissioning and treatment of municipal waste water, drinking water supply and waste management. In the previous term, we have asked the previous ministers or the Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which was the governing body, on a number of occasions, about their willingness to do so, and we have never received a clear answer. Since these projects are worth more than 10 million and require the construction of infrastructure, which also measures more than 100 km of water systems or sewage systems, these projects cannot be implemented in a short time. Problems have arisen in the preparation of the projects of the municipalities themselves. We have more than 10 municipalities involved in these projects that have been prepared and spent a lot of money on them. There have been constant complications, especially with the Ministry of Environment and Space’s references, now at the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. I want to know: To what date must the operators selected be selected to carry out these environmental projects financed by cohesion funds? Which projects already have funding? / turn off microphone/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u274	Thank you so much for asking. Due to difficulties in drawing up or implementing infrastructure projects in the field of the environment, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, together with the municipalities and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, reviewed projects with difficulties in implementation and those in high-level readiness to implement. Since some projects could not be implemented following the expected dynamics due to the construction crisis, the bankruptcy of operators, the problems with land acquisition and the like, a list of spare projects that are in high alert and can be implemented immediately was produced. In order to enable projects to be implemented in the financial perspective 2007-2013, the following deadlines have been set: preparation of tender documentation for the selection of the contractor by the end of February 2013 – this is already over by the end of June 30. 6. 2013 is the deadline for selecting the contractor. By the end of April, we had received only half of the tender documents at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the managing authority, and by the end of May for a total of 60% of the projects envisaged as reserve co-financing projects. The list of projects is here. I wouldn't read it all. It is the name of the project, the total estimated value and the size of European work. But I can give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u275	Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u276	I'd be happy to see that. Let me explain that these are purely normal problems that all investors have. The biggest problem is the environmental consensus, by obtaining an environmental permit, in the preparation of the tender documentation. When the invitation to tender is outside, the next problem is that there are a number of complaints from various operators about these tenders. We listen to representatives of the municipalities who fear that their projects will fail. Some see no other option if the project is out now, so that these projects, for which they have spent quite a lot of money, can ever again be implemented. That's our standard problem. Minister, don't get me wrong, with my question I would just like to help you to address some issues with officials, as well as with the State Audit Commission, to decide as soon as possible. We have banal projects when it comes to materials that are inquality. For example, water pipes cannot be installed under the sidewalk which will need to be changed – because we already have bad practice – in 5 years because the pipeline itself is 20 times more expensive than the value of this tube and so on. We have such legislation that it allows anyone who remembers to complain and stop the project. I am afraid that if we do not start these projects in time, we will not be able to complete them by August 2015, when these funds can still be drawn from Europe. I would really like to, because there are some such obvious problems that could be solved in a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u277	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u278	Thank you very much. You have just found that we have weekly coordination in terms of drawing on European funds, because we think this is extremely important for this year to draw on this billion 100 plus 300 million for agriculture, because this is really the money that is most quality for cohesion, development and investment. However, certain problems arise in drawing. The absorption of the Cohesion Fund in the field of environmental and transport infrastructure or major infrastructure projects is a key problem. In 2013, we estimated that between 300 million and 400 million European funds were at risk, unless we significantly accelerate the absorption of key resources, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. In early March, the realisation of payments was extremely low. Therefore, in these weekly coordinations – this coordination is led by President Alenka Bratušek – we are trying to agree on what is in the reserve programmes that can replace projects that will fall out of the regular programme. We have written these reserve programmes or projects for EUR 500 million. At the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the reasons for these problems are, in particular, lengthy licensing procedures, namely from Ars, multiple additions to applications, the problem at both the Ministry and the municipalities, the failure of officials, complaints by unelected operators. This leads to long audit procedures, bankruptcy of construction companies. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space is mainly concerned with the long-term preparation of projects, the slow implementation of projects, complaints by unelected operators and the bankruptcy of construction companies. The implementation of the budget in all departments does not reach the monthly plan. A list of improvements is also being made, which will be particularly current for the new financial perspective and a number of measures that are immediately possible. Amendment of legislation that impedes European cases – The Public Procurement Act is the most problematic, the Law on the revision of public procurement procedures, further simplifications in the area of spatial and environmental legislation. As soon as possible, it is necessary to amend the Law on the Implementation of the Budget in the Work Governing Prepayments. The previous Government has abolished the advance payments, and we know that without payment it will not be possible to carry out any project because the municipalities and all other beneficiaries of European funds are without liquid assets. ZIPro should also be amended with a view to regulating the implementation of its own participation after obtaining an EIB loan of EUR 0.5 billion. Implementation of the proposed timetable for amending or terminating decisions, and two other things – accelerating the preparation of operational programmes for 2014-2020, regions are being visited [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u279	Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u280	I know quite a few waste management projects that are no longer in the next financial perspective and are projects of such an extent that the municipalities themselves will not be able to implement them. You have mentioned those problems that have been going on for years with regard to administrative procedures both at the level of municipalities and at the state level – environmental consensus, the Public Procurement Act. If something doesn't change quickly, I'm afraid the backup projects will fail. It is a pity, however, that many funds and efforts were made by the congregations. This is about projects that are urgent because we promised Europe that we would clean up all the waste municipal water by 2017 before we let it down. We know that we have two thirds of the karst area in Slovenia and that water falls underground, and if we do not do so, sanctions are likely to come. I'm afraid these sanctions will fall back on our users who pay the bills, not on others. Therefore, it seems to me that it is very important, at a time when we do not have the money, even in carrying out these projects, that the construction industry or all these contractors somehow recover to survive these few years. We know that half a billion in this area alone does not have so little resources for the smaller operators who are still in Slovenia, the builders, and perhaps the public debate in this Parliament will help you or help you to crystallize all those mistakes. Perhaps the municipalities should further specify where the obstacles are and therefore suggest that a debate be held in the National Assembly in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's a criticism to you, to the government or to the minister, to help you take certain measures more easily, to really cut it off and to run projects like in some neighbouring countries, where they are significantly more effective than we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Lah, will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 21 May 2013, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be asked by Mr Dragutin Mate to the Minister for Home Affairs and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, who is absent between 5:30 p.m. and 19 p.m., so he can give you the answer at the next meeting or in writing. Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am very uncomfortablely surprised that 4.5 ministers are missing when we have a meeting of the National Assembly. All praise to those who are here, however – the questions sent are once a month, planned in advance. The obligations for which ministers are absent are extremely important, but they could have been carried out this morning or tomorrow morning, when we do not have a meeting of Parliament and ministers could have given us answers today. It is not so much a matter of answers for us Members, but primarily answers for citizens who are particularly interested in certain matters. If I go to the question. In the media and otherwise, citizens were able to meet several times vehicles owned by the Government using light and other bodies, using blue lights, including sirens, for transporting ministers. Among other things, we have been able to observe in the media that Minister Samo Omerzel, Minister of the State Gazette, was driving on Slovenian roads at least twice, on 17 and 19 April. One of these events took place in the early hours of the morning. This means that maybe someone didn't get up early enough and that's why he had to rush to a meeting or there was a road stop that could have been predicted to have occurred before that, and he could have come in with a normal transport. I am asking the Minister of the Interior this question because, in my statement to the media, the police, which is the body of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, justified the event, which took place on 17 April, with the following words: "The use of a special sound and light signal has been justified, because it was necessary to transport." How did the emergency transport take place? When it can be completed, it is specified in the Precautionary Vehicle Regulations and accompanied vehicles. Some ministers are protected at the third level, the President of the Government, the President of the State at the second level, and the other ministers at the fourth level. I want to know: Where does a regulation specifying when and how blue lights can be used states that ministers protected at the lowest level can be driven in vehicles equipped with blue lights? How and under what conditions can drivers who are not police officers who do not have direct police protection use blue lights and sirens? Thank you. I expect an oral response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Mate. In accordance with your decision, you will receive an oral reply from the Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr. Gregor Virant. The next question will be raised by Mr Ljubo Žnidar to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u284	Dear President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting from me as well! With 1. 7. Croatia is expected to enter the European Union. With Croatia's entry into this European environment, it is also expected to increase some of the traffic flows. There are growing questions, including at international level, as to what will be the dynamics of the installation and construction of motorway sections in the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the already built Croatian motorway sections. The priority current foreseen is the tenth corridor and parallels to these ten corridors. It is sections of Postojna-Yelšana, where space still needs to be placed, and Drazenci-Gruškovje. These two parallels are now the most current, in addition to the already built section Zagreb-Ljubljana and then towards Salzburg. So that we, in our home environment, in our profession, get some answers, I'm wondering: What will be the dynamics of the construction of motorway sections in the Republic of Slovenia in connection with motorway sections in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, thank you for asking! .With Croatia's entry into the European Union, we certainly hope that border crossings will become a little burdensome and that this will also make it a little less crowded on our roads. We are aware that Croatia's entry into the European Union is an additional pressure on corridors that are not currently connected. In the specific corridor of Draženci-Gruškovje, I am personally committed to establishing it as soon as possible and to construct that small section to Croatia, which has a further freeway. At this point, I must say that the dynamics of construction are unfortunately limited by the resources we have. We are all aware of the financial situation and the placement of corridors and the implementation only of the means at our disposal. In the case of a particular corridor or section of Drazenci-Gruškovje, the situation is now the following. The activities shall be carried out according to the timetable set out. The production of PZI projects is envisaged in 2014. PICs and land acquisition have been divided into two stages. In two stages due to faster implementation of construction permits and building permits. Construction for the first stage is foreseen for April 2014 and for the second stage of May 2015. The construction of the first stage is foreseen by the end of 2016 and the construction of the second phase is expected to be completed in the second half of 2017. At the moment, there are geodetic works, border treatments on the route, and the purchase of real estate is ongoing. On the previous question, I am grateful that we have managed to obtain €3 million from the European projecting funds. At Postojna-Yelšana, the public extension of the study of variants and the environmental report is scheduled for November 2013, the decision on the most appropriate variant is foreseen by June 2014 at the latest, the public disclosure of the draft VAT and the environmental impact assessment of July 2015 and the adoption of the VAT Regulation in February 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u288	I'd just like to complete my question, my thinking. Recently, I think a bad two weeks ago, the extension of Nature 2000 was adopted at the government. We know what Natura means in the environment, we know very well what it is like to put state line infrastructure projects into space. I'm asking: Was the decision to adopt the Natura 2000 enlargement sufficiently weighty, sufficiently professional? Will this expansion be an obstacle to further spatial planning of motorway sections in the Republic of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u289	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u290	Thank you for your word. As far as the enlargement of Nature 2000 is concerned, I must say that we work very well with our fellow Minister of the Jews, we have a lot to talk about, we have a lot of cooperation. The fact is, when placing objects in Natura 2000 space, there is something we need to take into account. On this subject, we have participated together in a meeting with the European Commissioner, who has offered us quite a few options and guidelines. In Europe, there are examples of good practice in how objects are placed in a room in co-existence and in accordance with the rules of Natura 2000. I believe that by certain measures, with the measures of relief, together with the Government, we will find appropriate solutions so that we can carry out the projects we have set out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u291	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mag. Matthew Tonin will ask the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment mags a question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u292	Dear Minister, hello! My question is the fruit of the visit of the New Slovenia Group in Notranjska, which you know is quite rich with the forest. My question concerns the management of state forests. Many have told me not to creep into this area, that behind the forests and behind the management of state forests are strong lobbying that will do some bad thing. However, I think we all know together that there is a rather poor organisation of public services with regard to the management of state forests, that there are too low concessions and that there is not enough control over the cut. As a result, many point out that there is a lot of blackwood in these forests and some even suggest that there is an excessive export of high-quality wood to Austria – that the result is that it is in such a way that it is easily covered in black-cut wood and that such tracks are easily covered. Due to the enormous and reckless export of the most high-quality logs to neighbouring countries, notably Austria, Slovenia's wood-processing company, especially saws, the last years in Slovenia have been difficult to find a contract partner to buy enough quantities and quality. Consideration should be given to the introduction of certain measures that the State can take to protect domestic wood buyers. Switzerland has a case where the transport of wood for more than 50 kilometers by this wood is heavily taxed, so that transporters or owners of this wood are simply not paid to take wood to other saws, which is what is happening in Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: Do you have a plan to prevent the enormous export of the highest quality wood to Austria and what measures do it contain? With what incentives will you encourage greater processing of Slovenian wood in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia? How will you prevent further damage to the state budget in the area of forest management owned by a country assessed by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2009 alone at EUR 16 million? How is the implementation of the Action Plan to enhance the competitiveness of the forest and forest chain in Slovenia by 2020? What measures have already been implemented and how successful are they? Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u294	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your questions. I think it's the third time I've responded to this subject today, but it's a good thing that the subject is important. How to prevent the enormous export of the highest quality refrigeration to Austria? We cannot introduce the Swiss case because we are part of the single European market. We are also familiar with the information of the Court of Auditors, as well as the assessment of the Institute for Forests, which we have ordered to deal with the black market or at least a strong grey market. This will be dealt with very effectively by introducing the mechanisms envisaged by the new amendment to the Forest Act, which has been coalitionly coordinated today. I believe that there will be unanimous support in this National Assembly because it contains more or less similar solutions, and somewhere the same solutions as the previous coalition has harmonised. It is, however, to establish traceability and in the event of infringements, the enormous penalties which have proved to be the only means of immediate effect in countries rich in forest and wood. Secondly, the development of the forest and forest chain will continue to be guided by the action plan Les is beautiful, which, to remind you, began to be prepared by the Pahor's government and is then adopted by the former government of Mr Janez Janša and is now being implemented by the new government. At some points, however, we are now complementing those more wood-related with the competent Minister for Forestry, the Minister for Economy and Technology because we want to achieve two objectives. The first objective is to help businesses in an acute crisis. This is where we're looking for a guarantee scheme. Second, strategically, the aim is to give the industry a similar position as tourism had in the current financial perspective 2007-2013. Therefore, in the 2014-20 perspective for the forest and forestry chain, which can provide many new jobs, we can make available relatively large investment European-Slovenian funds. What incentives will you give for the processing of Slovenian wood in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia? This is the next question you have asked me, Mr Member. I can only respond to the part which is linked to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. We will continue the incentives that have proved useful so far. The first was measures as complementary activities linked to farms that farm or manage the forest. Second, complementary activities outside agriculture, these small ones that work within the forest. Thirdly, there is an invitation to tender for the commercial integration of small forest owners. This is a problem in Slovenia. Unfortunately, the benefits of the state forest are too small and are fewer each day, due to returns resulting from some of the previous laws. Here is the benefit close to that, as far as it can be used. We have a problem of exploitation in the other 70, 75% of the forest, mainly due to a small ownership structure. You know that there are more than 400 000 forest owners in Slovenia and we will take a step forward with the integration measure, I believe. I must say that we have now concluded that we have sent a €6 million tender to the public, which will for the first time in Slovenia finance some kind of small forest and forest centres worth up to €3 million, in terms of co-financing. The current invitation to tender is addressed to two centres, if it turns out to be of interest, and according to our assessment of such centres in Slovenia it could be 6, 7, 8 to 11, and we will continue such calls. With regard to the Court of Auditors' assessment, I would like to point out that since 2005, when the concessions totalled EUR 3 million and several million, last year there have been 14 million euros, this year, even on the basis of the decisions of the previous government, there have been some 14 million, and we are trying to increase this amount. It is indeed possible to substantially amend this system by amending the concessions to take place in 2016. At this point, they are starting to prepare the starting points, which will be based on three principles. I think I'm running out of time, and I guess there'll be one more question, and then I'll say it to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mag. Tonin, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u296	Dear Minister, thank you so much for this part of the answer! You are known in public as a minister who is supposed to give very exact, precise answers. You probably agree with me that you have gone through my questions in a very general and general way. I don't blame you, because you don't have much time, nor do you have a lot of chances to answer, but, nevertheless, I think it's a common point that we can agree that we have at least two problems that are perceived by everyone. One thing is, we're getting way too cold in Austria. That's the problem we have to face. The other thing is that we don't get enough money from concessions from state forests. These are two problems no one can go through. I do not intend to torture you anymore, but I now predict that the New Slovenia Group will prepare material to convene an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment, where we will have the opportunity to discuss these matters in more detail and more broadly. There you will not be limited to 5 minutes, but you will have the opportunity to explain all ideas and plans in broad and detailed terms. I think that the forest is a natural resource and that we should make better use of it, better manage it, and that we must all strive to do so without any political calculation. I'd like to ask you for an answer to a question: Do you agree that these two problems, exports to Austria and concessions, are two major problems of forest management?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u297	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u298	Your Honor! In any case, I agree that the problem is that the forest is not cut in such quantity as it should be that the problem is also that our final product is not a wooden product, but some intermediate product that does not provide jobs. I would suggest, however, that if the meeting is called upon to try to find out what to do with the third major problem, which is operationally very large at the moment, this is what we will do with denationalising beneficiaries, their demands that hoard those who should work effectively, this is the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. Unfortunately, the burdens range to some tens of millions of euros, and where we do not yet have known solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u299	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Sam Bevk will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel, and the Minister for Defence, Mr Roman Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u300	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Due to the heavy snowfall in winter 2012/2013, Slovenian municipalities had extremely high costs for winter service, which up to 4 times exceed the costs in normal conditions. There were also a lot of costs due to the damage caused by snow beaches and damage to road infrastructure will not be shown until the end of spring. On February 12th, about a thousand 800 trucks remained on highways in Slovenia. One day in February, the Roads Directorate reported that due to a large amount of new snow, it had closed down the roads of the Lower Trebush-Lower Idrija, Idrsko-Livek, Predel-Bovec, Žaga-Učja, Čepovan-Most na Soči, Marof-Jiri, Volce-Solars. For trucks, the road of Lower Idrija-Idrija-Godovic was closed. The exceptional winter conditions were in Kočevska, Notranjska and elsewhere in Slovenia. Many local roads across the country were also closed, and the opening of individual roads lasted up to 9 hours or more. To illustrate, in the Idrija municipality, the costs of winter service from November to the end of March amounted to well over a million euros, which is about 13% of the eligible consumption of the municipality. This was more than the municipality dedicated in 2012 to primary education, health care and social together. The approximate calculation provided by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia shows that the additional costs of exceptional snowfall resulted in more than 0.3 per cent of the revenue of the state budget. This is, by law, a condition for the issue of a decision to initiate an assessment of the damage caused by a natural accident. According to data collected by the supervisory organisation of Slovene municipalities, to which more than 100 municipalities responded, there were 256 000 in Trbovje in 2012 and 413 thousand in this year. There were 261,000 in Skofljica this year, 527 thousand. Last year there were 747 thousand, this year a million 374 thousand. The case I mentioned earlier, in Idrija, is almost four times as big. Minister, Mr Sam Omerzel and Mr Roman Jakič, I ask: What measures should be taken to remedy the damage caused, which, according to legislation, can also be considered a natural disaster? Thank you very much for your answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u301	Here you go, Mr. Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, thank you for asking. True, this year’s winter, because of the unpleasant rainfall, the amount of precipitation and the combination left behind a state of emergency, a truly critical state. Only the information that we spent more €16 million on winter maintenance this year than in previous years suggests that there was a large amount of precipitation. At this point, the data that damage was caused by the Directorate is estimated at €82 million. The damage caused not only by this winter but also by past periods, as well as by maintenance, in itself speaks of the seriousness of the situation and the seriousness of the number or value, the amount of resources needed to remedy the situation. Unfortunately, I must say that, as far as the budget is concerned at this time, we do not have the additional €16 million costs that we had for winter maintenance. But we will be looking for a solution to how to provide these funds. As far as damage is concerned, these 82 million euros – we do not yet know how to provide these funds to remedy the road situation. But we're aware of the situation. There are some concrete ideas in combination with DRSC and Darsa to solve the situation in the future, but this is certainly not a solution that could be adopted in the short term and this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u303	Here you go, Mr. Jakic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u304	Dear Mr. Bevk! I will answer your question in particular from the point of view of fulfilling the legal conditions for declaring heavy snowfalls as a natural disaster and resulting in the preparation of recovery programmes. I must say, many congregations have turned directly to us. More abundant snow or high snow is defined in the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters as a natural disaster if human lives, their health or animal life are at risk, and special forces and resources must be used, and fortunately we were not faced with snowfalls this year. Nor does the Ministry of Defence have data to trigger snow reptiles that would endanger human life or the lives of animals, property or infrastructure to a greater extent. We were faced with heavy snowfalls that were cleaned up by regular services from the outside. A long winter cost to road managers. Even if the Authority of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection and Rescue of the Protection of the Republic of Slovenia should implement the damage assessment procedure referred to in this Title, there is no legal basis for the preparation of the recovery programme and thus for the approval of State budget funds, since the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Accidents does not classify snow as a natural disaster for the recovery of which State budget funds may be used, but only snow beaches are included in these accidents. I am sure that colleague Bevk knows that according to the standards established since 2003 on the assessment of damage, the assessment of damage starts when the revenue gap of the state budget approaches 0.3 per cent, which is about 2.4 million euros, which is a condition for the decision to initiate the assessment of damage. With regard to the question that you have asked, we have made a decision, or we have 18. 4. had a meeting where all the actors were present and agreed to sit down and see if there is any legal basis for any assistance in this, aware that there is no legal basis at present to remedy this from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u305	Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u306	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I thank both ministers for the answer. According to the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia of 4 March, this winter is ranked third in the most snowy winters of the last 50 years in Slovenia. In Ljubljana, more snow fell in the winters of the late 1960s and early 1970s. It was two of those winters. In the Army alone, the height of the new-western snow this year was more than 6 meters. According to data from the communities or roof organisations of Slovenian municipalities, the damage or additional cost in relation to previous years is certainly more than 0.3 per cent of the State budget. The data already provided by Minister Omerzel speak of tens of millions in road infrastructure, and I am talking about the winter service for the congregations. We're gonna have to do something. I think that legislation and certain normative acts will have to be amended. With regard to legislation – The Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents in Article 8 makes both the high snow and the snow beach a part of natural disasters. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, in Article 4, only includes snow plasma as part of natural disasters. These two laws have different criteria regarding the definition of natural disasters. In addition, a methodology should be developed to assess the injury caused by excessive and exceptional snowfall. We may even amend the Law on Community Financing, where the criteria for determining the appropriate consumption for individual municipalities do not apply the criteria for exceptional costs for winter service, which was evident in this winter. That is why I propose, Mr Minister, that we move towards amending the normative acts and additional means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u307	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next question. Mr Mirko Brulc will ask the Justice Minister, Dr. Senko Plitchanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u308	Mr. Secretary, you signed an agreement with the unions, didn't you? You must have been there this moment. During the last year, the Union of State Authorities representing employees in prisons has pointed out that the situation of overcrowding of prisons and, on the other hand, the lack of adequate personnel, particularly justice officers in the area of security, is becoming unsustainable and at the border of sustainability. They warn that technical protection helps to maintain order, but that is not enough. There will be a need to pay more attention and understanding to the regulation of the Slovenian prison system, which will allow the long-term and stable employment of convicts in public economic enterprises, as well as to ensure appropriate and regular professional therapy. I am aware that an internal audit was carried out in 2012 of the activities of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Recommendations were made to develop a comprehensive strategy for the development of the prison system in the Republic of Slovenia and the basis for the implementation of the human resources policy in the future. This report shall also include deadlines for the implementation of the recommendations. In view of the above, Mr. Secretary, I ask: Is a strategy for the development of the prison system in the Republic of Slovenia? What stage is this document? Who is all involved in the preparation of this document? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u309	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u310	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! Mr Brulc, I thank you for this question, in particular to answer you, and also to explain some of the issues concerning the Slovenian prison system to those who are sitting here and those who watch this through cameras. The fact is that many prisons in Slovenia are overcrowded. This is particularly true for prison in Ljubljana and prison in Celje. Prison in Ljubljana on Povšetova is also a detention. It is also true that in the past there has been no real hearing for the various problems facing the prison system. These, at least recently, or, if I speak for the time I was responsible, and I have been still responsible for this part of the system since last year, relate in particular to the part of the prison system in which prisoners work. You know that according to Slovenian legislation, under the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which is a fundamental law, prisoners should be given the opportunity to work, for various reasons related to socialisation, by facilitating the return of prisoners when they cease their imprisonment, to normal life. This part of the prison system, which concerns the work of prisoners and which is regulated in the form of public economic institutions – these are, I think, 4 or 5 in Slovenia – has been facing serious problems, financial problems for several years. There are many other problems in the Slovenian prison system, not only the overcrowding of Slovenian prisons, which means too little space for prisoners. One of the key problems is that the guards are too few. That comes from your question, too. Guards or judicial officers are doing extremely responsible and also extremely stressful work. You can imagine what it means to spend days in prisons and to have communication with people who for such or other reasons remain in prison in these prisons, which must not be authoritarian – except sometimes when they do not go otherwise – but must be the doctrine of prison sentences, Slovenian penology, as much as possible aimed at socialisation, in helping prisoners to understand what they have done wrong and to change their lives after they stop the prison sentence. With too few law enforcement officers or guards, there is a further problem facing all of us in Slovenia, the salaries that these law enforcement officers or guards have and that are relatively low. There's a whole bunch of these problems. I've identified them since last year's term. Because I have concluded that in the Office for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which is part of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and has considerable autonomy and is responsible for the Slovenian prison system as a whole, for all aspects of the prison system – it is simply a body that runs Slovenian prisons – certain matters that need to be clarified, I ordered an internal audit last year. This audit you are talking about, Mr Member, is a revision that I have just ordered to find out what the actual situation is. The reason for this was in particular part of the prison system, which I mentioned earlier, which concerns the work of prisoners. In particular, the Pohorje Public Economics Institute was the one, including the biggest one that faced it last year – it was no different this year as well, and it was this problem that awaited me when I took up my mandate – with severe financial problems and debts. The findings of the audit are varied. One of the findings is that a comprehensive strategy needs to be drawn up for the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions or the suspension of prison sentences in Slovenia, and this is being prepared by ICS, the Directorate for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, because it is the most responsible for this. My co-workers at the Ministry are also involved. There is also a department at the Ministry, but the sector responsible for the enforcement of criminal sanctions is the one that implements it in practice. With the answer to your additional question, I will proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u312	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I know you're handling this and that you know about all the problems that they are. You have financially resolved the Pohorje Public Economics Institute at the last minute. Due to lack of personnel, the judiciary officers are at risk. Today, a press report says that 250 convicts are facing a police officer. If anything happens, these two are incredibly threatened, and this is not even for public debate, so as not to inspire some in some environments. I have information that a novelty of the law is being prepared. I think that the legal text will need to be fully improved, especially according to your information today, but for me the news is that the judiciary is preparing to make a commitment to citizens so that the proceedings run faster and we will fill the prisons even more. Those who deserve to go there and we can't leave them like we did yesterday, today. I know the situation in prisons. There is no prisoner in Nova Gorica, let alone a worker, such are the conditions. So, work is huge. My question is: What are we going to do in the shortest possible time? I know that investment and all that can't be done right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u314	Thank you. I will continue this way to tell you how I intend to solve the problems that you have mentioned and through which I have tried to go systematically before. First of all, the question of the work of the prisoners. It is evident that the system, which is now organised through public economic institutions, is no longer suitable, for various reasons, not just for financial reasons. It is precisely as part of the preparation of this strategy that we are looking for ways to organise the work of prisoners in the most appropriate way, so that it will be financially rational and effective and that it will follow the main objective of making it absolutely necessary for prisoners to be able to work, to resocialise, to prepare for a return in, if I may say so, normal life after the end of the prison sentence. I am confident that within a few months within the Ministry, within the framework of the Directorate for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, we will find the way best suited for Slovenia. I also intend to turn to the penological profession in Slovenia. Last year, there were fewer options for this because if the minister turns to professionalism, usually that means that it is necessary to pay professionally. Last year, as you know, the government itself restricted itself when it came to advisory services and there was no such possibility. Even when it comes to these issues, the "know how" we have in Slovenia must be used. Partly this "know how" is in the Ministry, in the Directorate for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, and largely outside both systems, so it will have to be used and discussed with people. When we address the issue of organising the work of prisoners, we will also address the prison system as a whole. In the past term, I have been approached by different people with different ideas about how the prison system should be reorganized, by Bavarian model, by Norwegian model, by Canadian model, etc. It's a bunch of ideas. I haven't had time to do this in last year's term with all the other priorities, and now I will. We will draw up a proposal – it will probably be necessary to amend the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions and another – a modern, optimal organisation of the prison system in Slovenia, which will also include the work of prisoners. This is the answer to how we will solve this problem, which is a key problem. Second question: How will we solve the overcrowding of Slovenian prisons? As you know, I had it planned last year. I have it again this year. I intend to solve the problem of the Ljubljana prison – and if this will happen, also the problems of other prisons – with a public-private partnership. There's a whole bunch of tested models in the world. There's no time to explain. This is a new prison where budgetary resources will not be committed. Thirdly, few guards – customs officers will come to help [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I think we can use them, at least part, so they'll be reclassified to law enforcement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u315	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Sam Omerzel a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u316	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will ask Mr Sam Omerzel, Commissioner, in the light of the information that has been circulated in public: How does the former Minister of Infrastructure and Space Mr Igor Maher advise you? It may seem irrelevant to someone, but because of information circulating in the public and because of the integrity of both the minister and public servants, it is nevertheless appropriate for the Minister to respond to this question and to say how he sees this question. The Anti-Corruption Commission also considers that such a way of consulting as described in the media is controversial by certain ministers, including a fellow Minister Virant who does not see problems in this free consultation. It is also appropriate for the Minister to be defined on this advice. I think that the former Minister who was at the hearing is a quality cadre at a hearing some fourteen days before colleague Omerzel, but we still expect there to be a written agreement in the event of some consultation or cooperation on this, to avoid any disputed lobbying, influence certain decisions and some inaccuracies which may be produced in this way in public. Therefore, I ask the Minister to respond to this and thereby protect his integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u318	Thank you for your word. Mr Member, thank you for asking. I am extremely glad that I have been given the opportunity to explain this situation, which has somehow been misinterpreted in the media. I must stress that Mr Maher is not my consultant, I am not doing business with him, and we have never been in business. He is my client colleague, and I hope, and I believe that such respectable Members and Members as all the other Slovenians do not resent me talking to him about client matters. Personally, I am also a person who likes different debates, who likes different opinions, but certainly, as Minister, all of this is when we talk about Mr Maher in our joint client matters. Different opinions – I think it is extremely important that, as a minister, I listen to different opinions, I can take them into account, and in the end, I take my own decisions on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u319	Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u320	Thank you for your answer, Your Honor. I think that you have answered my question in one part, but I would still warn you that in certain media you have responded in such a way that a certain consultation is also being carried out at the Ministry. One thing you have pointed out is that advice within the party is true, which is clear that it is not disputed, but in the answers that you have given to the media, you have in some way defined that colleague Maher is familiar with certain things and you have not denied that you are actually also meeting in the ministry, which in some respect can be ambiguous and controversial. In these cases, I think it is necessary to define a written agreement on this, but otherwise there will still be doubts in the public as to how this advice is being carried out. I say this primarily for your own good, not maliciously, because I know that it is necessary to get as much information as possible, but in this case the matter does not point in the right direction, if I may say so. Nevertheless, I would like your explicit response, as the Commission is also clear that the relationship must be formalised in some way if the talks are to take place at the Ministry. I'd like to ask for your comment and your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u321	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u322	Thank you for your word. I must point out that Mr Maher was my predecessor, Minister, and he has been extremely adjusted in the handover of the Ministry. He gave me all the information in very detail. I must admit that, at certain times, I am still politically inexperienced and perhaps some word that means talking to someone, consulting someone in everyday debate, does not mean that you have any financial or other consequences on the other hand. With Mr Maher, once again, the handover at the Ministry was extremely correct and Mr Maher was certainly not and is not my adviser.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u323	Mrs Sonja Ramšak will raise a question of the question to the Minister of Culture, Dr Uroš Grilc. Since he is now absent, you will decide how to proceed with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u324	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleague and colleague! The supervisors of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board, led by President Miho Klun, decided, on the basis of anonymous writing of a person who apparently knows the event very well in the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia or in the Office of the Information Programme TV Slovenia under the authority of the responsible editor of Ksenija Horvat Petrovčič, to examine for themselves certain alleged violations of the responsible editor and others and to conclude that the allegations are credible and decided to carry out or order a specific audit. Among the reported irregularities is the concealment of the destruction of the service vehicle RTV Slovenia as a result of a traffic accident caused by the convicted journalist of correspondence from Nova Gorica. According to the responsible editor, it was not until a few days after the accident that the correspondents said they should have known about the said traffic accident. It also follows from the letter that the responsible editor, Horvat Petrovčič, should leave the obligation of non-fulfilment of monthly work obligations with certain managers and editors and that monetary rewards should be carried out more according to the criteria of proximity to Petrovčičov than on objective criteria. The main so-called privileged are also expected to be the editor of Odjevov, who is expected to have 400 working hours of deficit in 2011, and one of the leaders of Odjevov's 850 hours of deficit. Manko, or minuses of hours above the legal limit, is even to be wiped out at the time of the transition to the new year. There is also a suspicion of abuse of the right to reimbursement of travel costs for transport to work or from work. These are not all irregularities led by the responsible editor of the RTV Slovenia Information Programme. The Gorenje card is said to charge a kilometer for the use of its vehicle, even though it is carried on the ground by a service vehicle. On the basis of an anonymous application, the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board found that the compensation action of the Class advertising agency against RTV Slovenia, or the suspicion of the issue of business secrecy, was also contested, and the compensation amounted to EUR 700,000. Dear Minister, I ask you: What measures will you take as Minister of Culture to address the many reported irregularities in RTV Slovenia, with which the Slovenian public has recently been informed, and I am mainly referring to irregularities in the RTV Slovenia Information Programme under the leadership of the responsible editor Ksenia Horvat Petrovčič? I also want to know: Is it true that what appears in public is that you intend to propose the discharge of the President of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia and some members of the Supervisory Board, thereby preventing professional and independent supervision of the work of RTV Slovenia or [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u325	Mr. Secretary has just joined us, so I give the floor to Dr. Urosh Gril.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u326	Dear Members, honourable Members, honourable President, honourable Member Sonja Ramsak! I apologize for coming, but we've just signed an agreement, so I'm still a little suffocating. The Law on RTV Slovenia provides in its Article 2 that the founder of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia. The responsibility of the founder and thus of the Ministry of Culture as the competent media director is to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia and to provide adequate funding for the implementation of the public service. Everyone in their area is supervised by the RTV Slovenia Programme and Supervisory Board. Their tasks are very precisely defined by the law, from Articles 16 to 29 of the Law on RTV Slovenia. As you know, the Commission of the National Assembly for the Control of Public Finance also has its powers with regard to RTV. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Culture, as a representative of the founder, is not the supervisory authority of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia. The new task is to monitor, through the supervisory board of the institution, in particular through members of the supervisory board appointed by law by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the operation or performance of public service in the field of radio and television activities. This department's been doing it all this time. The Ministry of Culture is aware that the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia has initiated appropriate procedures against certain alleged irregularities in operation, in particular in the Information Programme of TV Slovenia, as you mentioned. Alleged irregularities were addressed by the Supervisory Board of the Institute at its 25th regular meeting, on 17 April, and following this meeting, on 24 April 2013, and initiated procedures to verify or establish the reality of the indications contained in the anonymous letter. The public has been informed of this through the media and would no longer comment on it. I think it is crucial that the Supervisory Board adopts a decision in the execution of the contract for the selection of an external independent auditor. To me, this is the only right way to solve such charges, the only person responsible and the only one who can fully resolve suspicions of possible irregularities. The results of the audit will be known within three months and when this is known, I think we will get a clear answer on how and what has happened on our national television. But I must stress the following. At its 23rd meeting, on 14 May, the Commission of the National Assembly called on the Public Administration of RTV Slovenia to report within two months to the Commission and the Court of Auditors on how it implements the corrective measures assessed as satisfactory in the Court of Auditors' audit report and how the institution will definitively remedy the irregularities whose removal was assessed as partially satisfactory in the audit report. Your question whether the government intends to replace the supervisory council – at this point we are not taking any action in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramshak, would you like some more? You're satisfied with the answer. We move on to the next question. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu, who is absent, so you will decide. Maybe he'll join us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u328	We'll wait and see for the rest of my three minutes. As a second question, I have decided to raise the issue of education, namely, to express my experience, my opinion. As a young individual, in fact currently a student of master's degree, I say that there is a need to defend competitiveness and competitiveness can only be gained and only if we have more providers who provide these services. We note that, in the Slovenian educational system, we have at all levels the logic of monopolies present, but to this day in Slovenia alone has not led to any developmental breakthrough or with all due respect to all the colleges or universities that have failed to adapt to the current challenges or crises that are ahead of us and in which we are already. It also seems to me that the concessions discussed on the abolition help to improve the development of Slovenian regions. We notice that we have a developed center, maybe another university town, and other cities are more or less just some places trying to catch backwoods, but this backlog is growing. I would like to ask the question for Minister Pikal: Is it true that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport intends to abolish concessions across the whole of education? What does this mean for the quality of education and, consequently, for competitiveness? Thank you. However, I would like to request an oral reply at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u329	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government informed me from the Cabinet of the Secretary-General of the Government that both Mr Minister and Madam Minister are on their way and that they will join us within a few minutes. If you don't mind, I'm adjourning the session in five minutes to get an answer right away. I am adjourning the meeting for 5 minutes and continuing on the arrival of the Minister, which is expected at 19.23 and 19.25 respectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u330	Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Minister and Madam Minister have already joined us, we will immediately continue the meeting if you agree with me here. So, Mr. Secretary-General, Dr. Jerney Pikalo, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Andrej Chuš has already asked you a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u331	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, colleague Chuš. First of all, the signing of the union agreement took a little longer than we thought. As far as your question is concerned, does the Ministry intend to abolish concessions across the entire vertical of education and what this means for the quality of education and for competition? Look, my answer is very simple – no, because it is not that easy to abolish concessions. You also know my answer and was relatively clear at the hearing at the committee itself when we said that concessions come exactly where there is no public interest. There can be no doubt about that. As far as concessions are concerned, you know that for each area, for kindergartens, primary schools and so on, the area of concessions is regulated by a specific law. Concessions cannot be abolished in this way when the Minister says that they will now terminate the concession and then terminate the concession, that is not the case. First, legislation needs to be amended. And secondly, there is some legal order in this country, no matter what the minister thinks. There are certain obligations arising from concession contracts. The obligations of both parties are clear and contracts and, in this case, the concession contract must be respected. If we go further, we can find, in various parts, that, for example, in kindergartens and primary schools, a little less interest, the most interest in concessions is actually in higher education institutions. In fact, there is very little interest in concessions. This must not mean that I personally do not think that we should invest primarily in public education and that concessions should be where private interest can actually replace public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u333	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. As I used to come from cutting concessions – all of this is about saving – I would still like to ask the question, because I am being approached by more and more peers: Are there any activities in the direction of introduction of tuition at the second stage of the Bologna study? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u335	Thank you very much. So far, it's a short answer, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u336	Thank you very much. We are moving on to today's last question. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u337	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Once again, a good day to all who persist. A recent review of the Ombudsman's Special Report on the Advocate – the voice of the child has updated the issue of the appropriateness or inadequacy of regulating the position of advocate of the principle of equality, which should be independent and independent of each policy in its work. So far, no regulation of the Advocate or Advocate General's position from the point of view of the European Rule of Law has been without warning from the European Union, so I ask: How does the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities intend to regulate the position of advocate of the principle of equality? I apologize to the Minister because the problem I am asking is not the issue of this mandate and this minister, but it is a problem when I am talking about the advocate of the principle of equality, which has received a very strong emphasis already in his 2010 report. In some other circumstances, such as the abolition of the Council of Europe Information Centre, questions were raised as to how we have institutionalised protection against discrimination. Various authorities, different ministries in Slovenia are responsible for protecting against discrimination. Countries in Europe too have this issue settled in different ways, with a single, independent institution, or with a diversified activity. As part of the analysis of the institutional arrangements for the promotion of equality and protection against discrimination in the Republic of Slovenia, there was the idea of establishing a new body, a new institution that would be independent or operating within the framework of the Centre for the Protection of Human Rights or the Centre for Human Rights within the framework of the Ombudsman. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also favoured the idea of a stand-alone institution. In the meantime, we have experienced various changes in the regulation of government services or institutions, but this is always linked to saving. That is why I think this issue is unpleasant for you, on the one hand, because of the savings you are facing and, on the other hand, the pressures or warnings of the European Union. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u338	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u339	Thank you for the question, Mrs. Majda Potrat. Indeed, the question of how an advocate of equality or equal treatment in the Slovenian legal system is being asked. The previous solution by 1 April 2012 was in the way that this advocate was placed in the Office for Equal Opportunities and was then transferred to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Although several warnings have been given that this is not the best, even from the point of view of the directives covering the issue of equal treatment and which the State of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, is obliged to respect, it has been repeatedly warned that its independence has not been guaranteed. Because these Directives always point out that the Institute of Equal Opportunities must be established in a way that is independent of politics. We have now come to the point that the European Commission has asked us about this arrangement, and when the European Commission asks you formally, it is up to the European Commission how you respond, how it will continue to intervene. We will do everything we can to ensure that Slovenia is not penalised, which would eventually happen if we do nothing and remain in the situation as it is. That's why at the Ministry we prepared a proposal for a law on counsel. The solutions are intended primarily to be confirmed by the National Assembly in order to be appointed for a period of 5 years in order to be determined in the same way as the Ombudsman or the Guardian, and his pay grade would be somehow coordinated as with the Deputy Guardian. At the same time, we would want institutionally, not institutionally, but in some way try to connect the advocate of equality in order to cooperate with the guardian so that there is no substantive overlap, because we are aware that the Ombudsman's office is a constitutional category, that it must be independent. We would like to maintain substantive complete autonomy, but we would still link them in a way that, on the basis of an agreement between the two institutions, administrative assistance would be agreed. We are trying to reach an agreement with the Ombudsman's Office. We would like to reach this agreement in a way that would be possible to do so as quickly as possible. We are particularly aware of the need to ensure the independence of both bodies. It should be noted, however, that the European Commission and some other European Union countries, as has been said, encourage the integration of different institutions in order to ensure effective protection against discrimination, while at the same time allowing citizens to have easy access to these institutions. It is necessary for us, however, because the Ombudsman's Office is a special constitutional category which has powers of discrimination in the public sector, but not in the private sector, to establish this connection between the two institutions, so that there is no doubt that it is not a matter of substantive cohesion, but only an agreement on a support administrative role or assistance from the Ombudsman to the equality institution. Here, in cooperation with the guardian and her office, we are looking for some kind of agreement. I hope and believe that this agreement is possible to ensure that these rights are protected more effectively and in a given situation where the country is financially sustainable. However, I would stress the need to take into account, in agreement with all institutions, also the position of the Ombudsman in our legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u340	Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u341	Thank you, Madam Secretary. As for the organizational structure, I am pleased with your answer because you have warned about all those traps that are open here. I can also agree with you that independent assistance to victims and counselling to victims in discrimination may be quite well guaranteed in this form, although the advocate is one person and covers all forms of discrimination. Where, for the time being, it seems to me that there is still a pretty empty area, and where it will be necessary in the future, when the law is ready and we will see it and think about it, and where we are also warned from Europe, there are independent research and analysis, recommendations and reports. This part is, in my opinion, the weakest because it is humanely fed, at least as far as the advocate of the principle of equality is concerned. It is not possible to require separate analyses from one person. For the time being, we can only read the proponent's reports, but these are reports on the cases he is dealing with, some independent independent analysis and related baselines for the strategy. I think there's a lot more to be done here in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u342	Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u343	I absolutely agree with Ambassador Majda Potrato. This is because the way in which we deal with the institutions of the rule of law, including the advocate of equal opportunities, is very important for the fate of the country even further. If we set up and establish institutions that are somehow fed, which cannot carry out their mission, it is a matter of our attitude towards these issues. At the Ministry, we will do our utmost to support, in accordance with our financial situation, an equal opportunity advocate in order to be able to carry out his mission. It probably won't be ideal, but at least if you have to take some steps in, if I say, the direction you would like to take to the future. This will be addressed by the Ministry, an important issue, but it is also very important, as I have repeatedly pointed out, that we will have some agreement that this law, the bill of law, will be coordinated with the Ombudsman and their office in particular, so that the institutions do not agree on how to resolve such issues. We have some homework to do here. However, some solutions will have to be found following a rapid procedure, because also the environment, the European Union, is forcing us, which may sometimes be good.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-20-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u344	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with the point of the parliamentary question. Presidents of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given! I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday, 21 May 2013, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 14th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 2 p.m. I say hello to everyone.
