ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, Polonca Komar from 16:00 on, Irena Tavčar, mag. Melita Župevc, Janja Klasinc, mag. Matthew Tonin, Happy Meh, Branko Smodish, Joseph Kavticnik and Robert Hrovat. I invited the President of the Government, the Ministers and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome all those present and ask you to listen. We are moving on to the agenda of the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 6 December 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of each item from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda, so I propose to the assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set, as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Please check the operation of the voting devices before that. We're voting on the agenda. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 20th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 34 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be determined on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The MP who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the questions raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point today they apologized: Mr Samo Omrzel, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Uroš Chufer, Minister for Finance, and Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. A review of the questions referred to by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit, has been published on the E-club. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. The first question will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Council of Ministers, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! In my written announcement, I put my question in three short sentences. Today is the day for the results of the stress tests, tomorrow is the first day for New Slovenia, for a different Slovenia. What's the script? Dear Prime Minister of the Government! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Banka Slovenije note that the cost dimension of the resolution of banks in the main state ownership is manageable. Once the banking recovery is completed and corporate over-indebtedness is resolved, banks will be able to finance growth again normally. What scenario, time frame and measures does the Government have to achieve this goal – the normalisation of the banking system and the completion of the social market model of the economy, which unfortunately we have failed in the 22 years of the independent Republic of Slovenia? Citizens demand from politics: Take those who have taken away from us. Please, Madam President, let the Slovenian public and taxpayers, who will have to pay around €6 billion for the damage they have caused in banks, reply: Will the Government launch a public investigation that will determine for all the bad loans owed to taxpayers: who proposed such a loan, who approved it, who benefited from an approved loan, or whether the creditors in the banks handled the prudential nature of the good owner or whether it was unlawful or not? Were they exposed to any political pressures or threats from influential stakeholders in the decision-making process? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Horvat. First of all, I would like to make it clear that not personally, not this coalition, nor the ministerial assembly has no problem with determining the liability of who in our banks caused damage to 15% of the gross domestic product as much as the recovery of the taxpayer's banking system will cost. At the same time, however, it must be made clear that many procedures are already under way. The police, the Governor, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Finance, I think they have met several times on the subject of problems that would arise in the context of investigations or the necessary data for investigations in order to be more precise, which would arise in individual banks. And our public commitment is that if this happens, we will act immediately in the direction of full support to all those involved in investigating these matters. But I think it's also important that we do something together that never happens again in our banks. I am aware that, in fact, the only good thing in this story is that we've got data on the table, that we know what to do, and that we're going to do it ourselves. The amount is high, we will find those responsible who will have to answer for these things. This is the first thing we have to take care of. And our other thing is that something like this never happens again, but it really never happens again. The numbers we have ahead of us and the way we are going to fix this is actually just the beginning of what needs to be done so that our banks can service our economy again. But when we talk about the guilt of such a situation in our banks, I think it's still right to put numbers on the table and why and in what period it actually occurred. The fact is that the country's gross external debt doubled between 2004 and 2008. Today we are practically on the same number as we were in 2008. And the fact is that a large majority of the bad loans in our banks were made before 2009. So you can believe that I really don’t have a problem looking for culprits when we’re looking for those responsible, and if we can — here I’m a little worried that it’s going to be the hard part — bringing this money back to taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Horvat has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you for once, Madam President, for your answers. You mentioned the period 2004-2008. Last week, we listened to two previous governors, Mr Gaspari and Mr Kranjec on the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which found irregularities in Slovenian banks. We also asked for the period 2004-2008, when the credit expansion of Slovenian banks was the largest in state ownership. Mr Gaspari – this is a public magnetogram, anyone can read it – said that in fact Branka Slovenije could not do anything to instill this credit expansion. So I hope you don't point your finger at the then government, because this finger-pointing on the then government wouldn't be consistent with the professional perspectives on what was going on at the time. If, therefore, I believe, the government does not have the genuine will to sanction those responsible in and outside the banks that have emptied Slovenian banks, this dramatic story will repeat itself in a few years, and criminals who have been turned into bankers will completely destroy Slovenia. I estimate that we have not only a problem of bad loans in banks that are mainly state-owned, but we also have a governance problem. Does the Government intend to replace the supervisory councils and, consequently, the management of banks without delay in the Slovenian banks with the majority of state-owned banks, NLB, NKBM, Abank? Do you think, Madam President of the Government, those same people who are responsible for the bank's bank hole can lead the banks in the process of recovery? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you. As for the personnel, Mr Horvath, I hope that you do not now point with your finger at the bank administration, which your government has actually set up. We haven't replaced one bank administration in eight months. If you think that in the last year when you ran the government, you've put people in the banks who are guilty of this robbery, that's your opinion, not mine, then I don't know. My promise here is that if the participation of anyone in a bank with law enforcement authorities, the Bank of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, with all those involved, will not be as it should be, we will act. That's what we said. I say it in public today. However, as far as my finger is concerned, I am not resisting any government, but I am resisting it over time, and this is the fact, Mr Horvat, that the country's gross external debt has doubled between 2004 and 2008. And the fact is, this is the cause of the problems our banks had. We want it or we don't want it, from 15.3 billion to 39.2. At the end of 2012, this was 40.8. I'll say it practically the same. That's a fact. I didn't point my finger anywhere. I held my finger from 2004 to 2008. If it wasn't the Government, if it wasn't the Bank of Slovenia, then now don't ask me who's responsible for the fact that the situation in our banks is what it is. Once again, my government and coalition perfect commitment to clear up what was going on and to make it all over.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Horvat has a request for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't mean that now you or I would point to anyone with a finger. That's why we have law enforcement in this country. But we both probably agree that we have and that we can identify the responsible people who are now going to take away from all the citizens of this country, from the baby to the centennial, about 3,000 euros, in some way, from the baby to the century. And we need to find those responsible. In this regard, I would like to take advantage of the business provision of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2, and propose that this honourable assembly decide to hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on this issue. I think that this debate would go primarily towards this government in order to actually find a common right to seek out those who have emptied the Slovenian banks. See, colleagues and colleagues, we have already received a status assessment from the Commission in March this year to prevent corruption and there the Commission has made clear that only 40 credit maps have found loans that are totalling around 1.6 billion euros. But as far as I know, nothing's happened since then. I asked Mr Pličanič, Commissioner, about the Government's intentions, the laws and the time dynamics that the Government would bring to the National Assembly in order to actually help the judiciary to give these grey eminences of the Slovenian banking system a name and surname as soon as possible. It's true that it doesn't work overnight, I believe. But I think that at this point we can really all unify ourselves, have a debate and find out which legislation needs to be corrected. I was pleased to hear the end of last week when the President said that, if necessary, we would also change the Banking Act. Let us discuss this and see how we can take away those who took away all of us as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you. Your proposal for a debate will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 December 2013, in the framework of the votes. Procedurally, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I have listened with interest to Mr Horvath's question, and I strongly agree with it. However, the third time he took advantage of the fact that we will have a debate, I would just like to remind him that the SDS Group has made a request for an extraordinary meeting in the procedure and we will discuss this subject on Friday and Thursday at the Committee on Finance on Friday at the meeting of the National Assembly. That's why I'm saying this because I know because I've seen in the media that the President of the Government has two more questions about banks, and you're probably all going to use this to talk about what we need to do, so let me warn you all and let you know that we're going to talk about this on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you for your notice. Although I must say that Members and Members are probably aware that this request has been tabled and that we will discuss it. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, however, it is possible to request a discussion on the response of the President of the Government, and so the request was also transmitted by Mr Horvat. The next question to be raised is Mr Zvonko Černač of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u14	"Today is the day we've been waiting for 8 months," the President of the Government said in the National Assembly on Thursday when the data on the bank hole was published. This response by the President of the Government to the publication of the data on the bank gap was not only understood as an expression of relief, rather as an expression of satisfaction, for which there is no basis. On the contrary. In the coming years, the Slovenian people will have to pay a huge price for the rehabilitation of imported banks. Each household will receive an amount of about 6,000 euros and, together with all the recapitalisations and state aids so far, the number will exceed 10,000 euros per household. We are talking about the transfer of bad bank claims to a bad bank of EUR 4.8 billion, which is estimated to be worth three times less, we are talking about the recapitalisation of three banks of EUR 3 billion, we are talking about the recapitalisation of a bad bank of EUR 200 million, the recapitalisation of Factor and Probank of EUR 445 million, and the other five banks are expected to provide a billion 800 million by mid-term next year. It is highly likely that at least half of this amount will have to be provided by the State for at least two banks. The total cost for the resolution of the banking system will therefore exceed EUR 8 billion and most of that amount will be paid by the Slovenian people with high interest. The burden of recovery would be lower if the Government acted responsibly and took advantage of the cheaper options available under the European Bank Resolution Mechanism but did not do so. Dear Prime Minister of the Government! I am therefore asking you about the financial resources and the total amount of resources needed to remedy the banking system. In this context, I am particularly interested in: Who do you think is responsible for the bank hole? Are there also leaders and supervisory councils in charge of the bank? Are the former Governors of the Bank of Slovenia responsible? Is it also the responsibility of those who, with the modified data, leased disputed loans? Why did the government not take insurance and recovery measures from those responsible last week? Why is it that those who have not returned the contested loans not frozen property? Why is it not frozen property for those who have granted disputed loans? And at the conclusion of what seems most important to me, the price could be significantly lower if the Government acted responsibly on its own people and took advantage of the possibility of obtaining cheaper resources within the European institutions. So I'm wondering: Why did the government not ask for cheaper money within the framework of the European Bank Resolution Mechanism, which would allow significantly cheaper resources for recovery and thus relieve future generations?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you. Perhaps also because of what I am about to read to you, and these are the words of John or John John Janša. "If we do not do so, we will reach the point where we will have to humiliate ourselves, ask for foreign assistance, lose some sovereignty. And I, as someone who was there when this country came into being, would not want to experience this humiliation. We're still strong enough, far enough from the abyss to get rid of ourselves, and only our own stupidity will be to blame if we go over the edge." One. The other one. "If the situation is as anticipated. is manageable, Slovenia can save itself, even for the banking segment it will not be necessary to apply for foreign aid and thereby give up part of sovereignty and accept substantially more acute conditions than anyone may have imagined." And the third time. "When the vote comes, this will be the moment of truth. From how we will solve these two points," it was a constitutional change, "it is up to the Slovenians whether we will be able to save Slovenia from the economic crisis in the future, or whether we will have to take into account the conditions that others will put in place." Dear Mr Blackach, I think the answer is more than a palm. In order to remain a sovereign state, we must decide for ourselves what needs to be done. I don't think that much has changed since you led the government and your President, Prime Minister Janez Janša, has reasoned with these words that it is actually surrendering or surrendering to ask for help. In fact, the trend in the profitability of ten-year Eurobonds gives us the impression that the situation under this government, under the government of Alenka Bratušek, is actually better than before, but you have not thought about going for a cheaper debt. So why the radical conversion now? Ever since I took over the government, the price of our money has not risen above 7%. In July and August of last year, unfortunately, that was the case. I believe that if the picture were reversed and someone else sat on this chair, of course we would speak the same way as I do today. But let us be so honest with our people and say why it is important that we save things ourselves, let us say why it is important that such things never happen again and what needs to be done from now on. The fact is that it will be expensive, the fact is that this will cost taxpayers. But it is a fact that if we did not do it ourselves, the pain in our country would be significantly greater. Look at Greece, look at Cyprus, after all, look at the joy in Ireland when it comes out of the program. A radical reduction, however, I believe that there will still be, in the last days of the costs of our indebtedness, Mr Chernač, shows us that we are doing the right thing, that we are on the right track and that we will solve things the right way. Alone, sovereign. And Slovenia will remain a single and sovereign country, where foreigners will not decide how to proceed. But who's responsible, and I don't think Alenka Bratusek, not Belly Blacks are the two people who are going to say it. We have the authorities to decide that. Once again, I stress that in doing so, my full support, full support from the Minister of the Interior, has the full support of the entire government. And absolutely, if anyone in this, whoever should, does not cooperate, we will act. But don't expect me to tell you who did it, and I also believe that you can't do it and you can't do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I need to find out that the Prime Minister has not answered my questions. The cost of debt at the beginning of the year, when we had a lack of government, in January, the bond premiums were slightly over 4%, according to the Janša government's departure, was lower than when you took over the government. This money is also foreign money, because it's not our own money. Are we more sovereign if we pay more than twice as much interest as we should? Are we more sovereign if we pay less than we should pay? The statement you cited, Mr Janša, is a statement issued in the summer of 2012. At that time, the European Bank Resolution Mechanism has not yet been established. It was established or initiated at the end of 2012. But I have asked about responsibility and I see that you agree with me that the governors of Banka Slovenije, bank management, members of the supervisory councils are also responsible. And I want to know: Will Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek exercise responsibility with Alenka Bratušek, a member of the New KBM Supervisory Board during the Pahor government? In the Government, the Minister, who with the co-signature of the contract allowed GREP to obtain more than EUR 100 million in loans for Stožice, which was not returned, will be repaid by the Slovenian people. In Vlada, the former director of the financial management centre of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, the bank with the worst claims, is the Minister of Finance. It will be difficult for the Government, led by the President of the Government, in which ministers, who are in one way or another contaminated by the granting of bad credits, will exercise responsibility. And this, in my opinion, is also the main reason that asking for cheaper money was not because otherwise, once and for all, heads would stare at the plan, and especially those responsible would be frozen and later confiscated assets, which should be one of the resources to cover the bank hole. That's how the nation will pay twice. First, credits instead of bank and other tycoons, and then with the consequences of losing jobs and lower standards. Please answer my questions that I asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u19	For an additional answer, the President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you very much, and please, Mr. Member, don't put words in my mouth. I told you Alenka Bratusek wouldn't tell you who was responsible. And I believe that you, as a Member, will not allow it either. Yes, from the second half of 2009 to the middle of 2011, Alenka Bratusek was a member of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, but I think that I will now say one fifth or a tenth of the time that I am confident that the current administration, if any member of the Supervisory Board or of the Supervisory Board were to act entirely wrongly, wrongly, illegally, would not be the Executive Director of that same bank, I think even a member of the SDS, Mr Guzei. So I don't know why Alenka Bratusek would be subject to different rules as they apply to members of the SDS. I'm always gonna answer for my actions. I don't have a problem. But, Mr. Chernač, I showed you earlier, and now once again, at least half a year before I stepped into the control world, what was happening in the banks was happening. And you have to take that from yourself. You, too. The period 2004-2008. I expected such a question and not for me, not for Roman Jakič, not for anyone else in this government, but I believe that there are certain rules applicable to members of the SDS in our country. Money laundering, conviction and so on. Let's put each and every man before his own doorstep, and I think that this country is going to be significantly, substantially better.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Cernač has a request for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u22	Although the President has had enough time, unfortunately she has not taken advantage of it and has not answered my question, I therefore propose that the National Assembly discuss this, so that at least in the context of the debate we hear some of the concrete answers to the questions raised. By the way, there is also enough of this deception as to who is responsible for the gross external debt over the period 2004-2008. We know that the mechanisms are determined by the Bank of Slovenia. And the first is the Bank of Slovenia, the regulator, and no one else. And those governors who ran the Bank of Slovenia at the time, some later became ministers in the Pahor government. So much for responsibility. This debate should ask why Slovenians will be reinstated after 20 years. Why? Because the rehabilitation took place 20 years ago in the same way the Government and Banka Slovenije envisioned today. The defendants never answered. There were also many words about the exercise of responsibility, but the opposite happened. Some comrades set up a banking and tycoon network in which the same verified personnel continued to collide with 100 million uninsured loans. And most of these loans will never be returned, and none of these criminals have ever been returned before today. Their jobs will be paid by the Slovenian people. This time, the rehabilitation of banks will burden each household with at least 6,000 euros. Slovenia will experience the consequences of this burden for several decades. The process of bank rehabilitation should therefore be carried out in the broadest political and, if possible, broadest social consensus. However, this cannot be ensured unless the parallel rehabilitation of the banks also leads to the exercise of responsibility through the public publication of all those who have approved and received disputed loans and through the prioritisation of those responsible and the freezing of their assets. Furthermore, it is a mistake that the government has not used cheaper financial resources. The arguments, why she didn't do it, we didn't hear it today. Discussing that we are more sovereign is a bedtime story. We would be more sovereign if we borrowed money once or twice as cheap, not by borrowing it once or twice as expensive. As a result, the nation will pay at least once more than it should. Let me get this straight. The debate is necessary because we need people who will pay the most for this bank and tycoon drink, to know who they are actually paying, and above all have the right to know whether the Government and Banka Slovenije will act in such a way as to keep the price to be paid as low as possible. We don't know all this today. For this reason, in our view, the Government is acting irresponsibly towards its own people, because we do not know what the whole rehabilitation of the banking system will be, but we know that it could be lower.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you. Your proposal for a debate will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 December 2013, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Jože Tanko has a procedural record.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! I believe that the technology of the work of the President of the Government has not changed significantly in recent times. In all these speeches, performances and answers to Members' questions, we are present with a number of instigations, things that do not stand and do not hold. Mr Anton Guzey, member of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor, was never a member of the SDS. He wasn't a member of the SDS. And if the President of the Government in his entire weekend performance allows himself such a lie, such a claim, then with the credibility of the statements made by the President of the Government in this national assembly, something is very wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u25	What will be your procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u26	I'll tell you what, Mr. President. I think it's a serious problem, and it's a scandal. For every thing defended by the President of the Government by his statement, he touches something from the SDS, even if it isn't. And I would like to ask you very nicely, Mr President, that the President of the Government and also all the other ministers who are coming to the National Assembly answer questions or present certain things so that they can check the statements before they are made. Mr Anton Guzej, member of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor, is a member of the Slovenian People's Party. And this situation, with regard to the response of the President of the Government, is substantially changing. I really ask, Mr President, that the President of the Government, when speaking about the facts, speaks absolutely about the facts and does not manipulate statements that he does not know whether they are standing or not. And in these matters, when we're talking about a financial hole and she's responding to a financial hole, she's also manipulated it. The new President of the Government certainly knows what the responsibility of anyone in this system of supervision in the banking system is. I'm sure he does. If he doesn't know, then something's really wrong. And if it is now her government that regulates gross external debt, then I wonder why we even have the Bank of Slovenia and why we also have banks and supervisory boards of business banks. We don't need any of this. And from the President of the Government, if he comes to the National Assembly to answer the questions he receives in advance, 3, 4 days in advance, we expect him to give credible answers. As well as you who are meeting, it is your duty to draw attention to the duty and due diligence required in preparing replies to Members of Parliament and also to the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. With regard to the competence that I have, I am trying to point out consistently whether the question has been raised vaguely because the Rules of Procedure speak of the need for a clear question and that the President of the Government, or the Minister or Ministers, must then be given the opportunity to give an answer. In view of the dialogue itself in the response phase, as President of the National Assembly, I do not have the authority to assess whether the answer is correct enough or not. Finally, we also have a provision in the Rules of Procedure that, if a Member or a Member is not satisfied, the reply may be discussed if so decided by the National Assembly. That is why we have also prepared rules of procedure so that we can respond adequately to the answers that have, say, not met the question. Mr. Möderndorfer, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u28	Dear President! Unlike Mr. Tank, I will not deal with content. But I'm going to deal with the part that binds to the process that you're responsible for, in the first place, just you. By the way, Mr. Tanko, we're used to a lot of insubordination. Also saying it's a serious scandal and a problem. I think it is a serious scandal and a problem to be in parliamentary democracy, where the Rules of Procedure set out the questions and answers of the President of the Government and the ministers to interfere with the procedural way in which you, the President, know damn well that he will abuse him, and as the institution of the President you have the opportunity to interrupt and withdraw the word. I find it unfair and unworthy for this national assembly. What we're doing is absurd. Absurd in every way. And what is being done is being abused in this national assembly. And how Slovenians should expect the authorities and ministers and the government to respect each other and what else I know if they do not respect the basic principles that Members themselves have prescribed here in the National Assembly. And that's the problem with this national council. That is why I call on you, President, because you are responsible for taking care of order, to call everyone, including me, if I have exceeded my powers under this Rules of Procedure to end this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Möderndorfer. But here I must draw your attention to the very clear provision of the Rules of Procedure. I can take the word after two reminders. If the speaker does not agree, the National Assembly may also decide. You know very well that anyone who asks for a procedural proposal must be given the floor. And everyone, if I warn him, in the meantime, that he is abusing the rules of procedure because he has not made a procedural proposal, will reply that he will put it on the table below his discussion. That's a fact. Mr Möderndorfer, I agree, I am in favour of agreeing with the leaders of the parliamentary groups on how you will ask procedural questions. This is an agreement that we can reach within Parliament, but I actually have to give my word. And in the time that the debater has at his disposal, sometimes even abuses him, I agree with you, but the procedure is such that I can take a word from him after two reminders. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President of the Government, I have pointed out this in her reply to my fellow Member's reply, she has absolutely lied. Absolutely a lie. Mr Anton Guzej, member of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor, is not a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I have warned you, Madam President of the Government has heard, and I expect that, on the basis of this conclusion and this fact, a reminder will also be given to the President of the Government for allowing herself to manipulate the National Assembly in a very clear, pre-arranged question. Mr Černač asked her in writing about the financial resources and the full amount of resources needed to remedy the banking system. We didn't ask any questions about the supervisors of the New Credit Bank Maribor. That's what we were asking. And allowing the President of the Government to find himself in his response and to take the basis of an absolute lie in order to pass the share of the blame on a party she does not like is manipulation and abuse and discreditment of the office of the President of the Government. I propose that in your role, you now have heard enough facts, warn the President of the Government and the ministers that in their responses, in their work in the National Assembly and in communication with Members, they serve facts, absolute truths and not to use absolute lies to answer the question. I suggest you just point out this fact to the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u31	Mr Tanko, I cannot take into account your procedural proposal that I should remind the President of the Government of the words he is saying or of the allegations that may be correct or incorrect, because I cannot take into account all the data available on my own and it is therefore impossible to draw attention to this fact. Moreover, the fact that the Rules of Procedure requires me to alert Members and Members of Parliament if they are in breach of the Rules of Procedure. In the context of the questions sent, I would like to stress once again, which is why we have a request for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. And if we were all right today, which you have pointed out through procedural proposals, we would not have made procedural proposals, but we would be aware that we have a provision in the Rules of Procedure that allows for discussion. If the National Assembly decides to do so, this debate will be held if not, it will not. Everything else was, in the context of these procedural issues, a waste of time and, to a large extent, an abuse of this procedural provision. Once again, I would like to stress that this procedural proposal, which I am alerting, does not allow me to hear what the Government has to say. We are moving on to the third question that Mr Franz Pukšič, Slovenian People's Party, will ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u32	Good afternoon, Mr President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, Government of Alenka Bratušek, President of the Government. My whole question is about your covert actions and your secret actions, why people shouldn't know where he is and where their money will go. Let me explain. First time. We still do not know who the mysterious investor in Slovenian bonds is and why the public should not know about it when they pay it back. Another time. The interest rate or required return on which you owe us is 4,84%. By comparison, Spain, a country in serious difficulty, committed 2.1% for three years. The question is: How did the debt come about when there was no public call for tenders? If there is an agreed interest rate between the two parties, and this is higher than it would have been in public supply, then it is a million-dollar damage to the state budget. As a result, the minister and your government are ripe for criminal charges, if not worse. Third time. The Coalition adopted an amendment to the Public Finance Act, which excluded the National Assembly from the process of transferring claims from banks to bad banks. So he will neither confirm nor be familiar with these broadcasts in the National Assembly. This will, of course, leave everything hidden from the Slovenian public. The whole transfer will take place in strict secrecy. And I'm asking you: What interests will cause the entire transfer to be carried out in strict secrecy? Investigative authorities, including the prosecution and the judicial branch, have pointed out that they have difficulties investigating crimes within the banking system. We all know what happened to the Hypo Bank years ago. The owners came and arranged things themselves, along with the Austrian authorities. In our case, where the state is the majority owner, only a little bit, it will be 100%, we are interested: Why are there still obstacles to cooperation with law enforcement authorities? The banks shall not give documents to law enforcement authorities or to the Commission of Inquiry. If the problem is legislation, why don't you change it, or why do you object to such solutions in your client’s case — the removal of bank secrecy for law enforcement authorities, prosecutors, and the judiciary? And last of all, we would like a clear explanation in the Slovenian People's Party: Why are some of the administrations and supervisors that have led the banks in recent years and also brought the banking system into collapse still in their positions?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to say this for the third time, I'm practically doing the same thing today. I have no problem, not this government, not this coalition, that everyone who is to blame for the situation we are in is to be found. A specialised investigation team has been established in which the prosecution, the police, the anti-corruption commission and also an expert from the Bank of Slovenia operate. I think both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior have been to meetings several times to try to remove obstacles if they occur. And once again, my commitment, if anyone does not take part in this, we will act. The third time today I said this, we will do this, or Banka Slovenije will help, I think that AMF will organise education for prosecutors so that they can act in these cases. But I ask that in democratic society and in the country, those responsible say who is responsible for something. Mr Pukšič, Mr Černač or Mrs Bratušek cannot decide who is to blame and please stick to this, please do not act populistly, so that we do not now know where to put these people whom each of us will choose. That's not how it's done. We'll do, there's procedures, we're actively involved. Everyone who needs has the full support of our government. We don't have a problem with that. As far as the public is concerned, I'll say so. In accordance with established market practice on international markets, the Republic of Slovenia does not disclose the names of investors in issuances as well as other issuers of securities. The disclosure of the name of the investor would make it difficult to issue further debt securities as it could deter the following or further potential investors from investing in the debt securities of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know, Mr. Pukšič, I don't know who bought that last bond issued by your government. I'd be happy if you'd tell me. I mean, it wasn't public information at the time, either.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you. Franz Pukšič has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u36	I will. When I'm Prime Minister, I'll answer that question, too, if you asked me. Then there'll never be, that's what some people think. But that's right. You can think. Madam President of the Government, you have said that you have answered several times, three times today. It is true that three times, hundreds of times, thousands of times, questions remain with citizens and citizens. Madam President, it is not about me, Franz Puksič, or the Slovenian People's Party, asking you a question. The question is that citizens and citizens do not have the answers and you do not give them the answers. You did not say to the public: ‘ Why and how did the minister take responsibility for the bonds? Unfortunately, you don't want to tell the public and you don't want to say or give a clear answer: Why should citizens and citizens not know which claims or which outstanding loans will be transferred from banks to a bad bank owned by citizens and citizens and financed by them not least with 200 million euros, with 1.6 billion liabilities? You can explain to citizens and citizens, say you will do anything, but do nothing. You do not bring an amendment to the Banking Act, where you could obtain such secret data from law enforcement authorities. State Prosecutor Jože Kozina wrote: "There are still people who are not interested in investigating matters as soon as possible." He still says, "It's a hint to the owner to check who had some credit contracts in the millions of dollars in damages."
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u38	See, together with Banka Slovenije we are checking whether the Banking Act should be amended or not. The Bank of Slovenia has also sent a document to the New Ljubljana Bank, which in a way gives them a commitment or says that it is in accordance with the law if these data are transmitted to law enforcement authorities. But that doesn't mean that all this information will be published publicly, which is what you're asking me today. This is also what we do, but our first objective and interest is not to harm an investigation by publishing any data. I hope we're on the same page here. Our only interest is not to jeopardize the investigation. And once again, I hope this is our common interest, Mr Pukšič. But now I'm going to read again so you won't end up saying I didn't tell you. "In line with established market practice in international markets, the Republic of Slovenia, like other issuers of securities," once again, like other issuers of securities, this means, among other things, that it "does not disclose the names of investors in issuances. This applies even to issues offered to the wider range of investors in accordance with the rules. Disclosure of the name of the investor would make it difficult to issue the Republic of Slovenia’s debt securities further, as disclosure of potential investors would deter it from investing in the debt securities of the Republic of Slovenia. This would very likely lead to a deterioration in the willingness of investors to invest in debt securities of the Republic of Slovenia, which would certainly be detrimental to the interests of the Republic of Slovenia." And I believe, Mr Pukšič, that you do not want this to happen to our country. Now, Mr President, you will allow me another apology if Mr Guzei is not really a member of the SDS. I said, "if I'm not mistaken." But I'm glad I found out he's a member of the SLS. I guess I was wrong about one letter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Pukšič, you have a request for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you very much. On the basis of paragraph 2 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u41	Can I talk to you for a second? Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u42	246. Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure proposes that the reply of the President of the Government be discussed in the National Assembly. [[...]] Madam President of the Government, of course I agree and I do not want anything wrong with this country. But you were talking yourself about the wider circle, that is, the invitation to tender. But what you've been doing, your minister, as I mentioned in the introductory question, is that you've matured for criminal prosecution, if not for more, you've been working with one person. Who this is, of course, would not hurt, but would benefit the country more. You're saying you're checking that you don't have any problems preparing and so on. It's true, you're doing it all, but when you're gonna do something, in particular. You didn't give us an answer to that. Madam President, I must say you did not surprise me with your answer. But you have given completely different areas, which were not crucial to answer questions whether this Slovenian nation will ever know where these 6 billion euros go and whose sins it pays. You said it was part of sovereignty. I don't know how much more sovereignty there are for those 120,000, 130,000 people, and every year there's an increase of 10,000 who are out of a job. And you did not answer why you hide the names of bankers, politicians and tycoon elites, in other words, why the incinerators of Slovenian banking and economy remain intact, in your positions and why you work under the mark of secrecy and hide from people who will pay for almost 6 billion bank holes. Finally, if you apologized to the Slovenian Democratic Party for membership, then you are not pleased to be a member of the Slovenian People's Party. The Slovenian People's Party does not care whether he would be a member of the Positive Slovenia or the Papal Council. If he's guilty and he's a thief, he's behind bars. This Guzei is not a member of the Slovenian People's Party. We're gonna have to apologize, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you. More proof that, as President, I find it difficult to assess who is a member of a party. Your proposal for a debate, Mr Puksic, will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 December 2013, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much, President. In view of this, the President, that we have heard a lot about these banks today, I can only say that at the 51st extraordinary meeting we have actually heard the right data and results, because I am truly surprised. Today I've heard 10 billion, 6 billion, 8 billion, I don't even know what we're talking about. And I believe that the data we heard at the extraordinary session is true. Above all, we will spend €3,012 billion for the recapitalisation of NLB, NKMB and Abanks from the country. And that information, I know it's true, but everything else isn't. It is true, however, that in the recapitalisation itself, citizens are particularly interested in the next topic, this is how the responsibility of those who have led us to this situation will really be sought. I believe that the government, I have no doubt at all, will do everything necessary to ensure that what is within its competence is proved to be necessary if any action is to be taken in order to do so. What I am interested in is, above all, what happened a few days ago, which is that the entire commission or Senate, the leadership of the KPK, has actually resigned and procedures are in progress. But that's what I'm interested in, President, next. In its statement, the Commission stated that they had withdrawn from the protest because they had done all they could under the existing law and that the political authorities could actually act through changes in the regime of systems which were deceived by corruption risks. President, I want to know: What systemic measures to combat corruption is the Government planning? Thank you for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Yes, because it is probably right that all four issues today revolve around banks, economic crime and corruption as well. Even if the rehabilitation of banks were worth only one billion dollars, that would be a lot for taxpayers. But it's only right that now that we have numbers on the table, you don't manipulate different numbers anymore. The figures are clear, public and not calculated by the government of Alenka Bratušek, but by several foreign institutions, experts in this field. As for the anti-corruption commission, however, as I said in my statement, I am once again sorry that the anti-corruption commission has resigned or that the Senate of this Commission has resigned from the protest. I feel like they gave up in the middle, too. We are not, so we will continue this fight against corruption and economic crime. In fact, the door to the anti-corruption commission, my door, the door to my government, was always open. We have spoken several times, but at least I have never been personally brought to the Government or proposed the necessary changes to the legislation for their better work. In fact, I agree with all the points or, I will say, with most of the points they wrote in the public invitation, what would have to be changed in order to end it in our country. I regret only that, with this paper or with these points, they did not first turn to those who could propose a change of legislation, or to you, who are at the end of this amendment of legislation. I think it is already agreed within the Government that we will propose a change to this legislation, and this change will also be on your tables in a short time. But now there are still some statistics, because in all three of these questions, I am listening to how we have done nothing in the fight against corruption and economic crime. In the first half of 2013, police dealt with 49% more crimes of economic crime. At most, by 95.4%, fraud increased, money laundering followed by 93.5% and abuse of position or confidence in economic activity by 81%. Police are still treating 58.8% more crimes with elements of corruption. 17.6% of all organised crime offences were dealt with. And with all this information, can you tell me today that this government has no serious intention of accounting for these acts? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you. No proposal to complete the reply will be submitted. This concludes the questions raised by the President of the Government. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers he has given. We turn to the question raised at the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalo, will answer Sam Bevek's question regarding the conduct of inspections of radiation gases in kindergartens and primary schools. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u48	Dear President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this question. Unfortunately, I must say, unfortunately, this is happening to us mainly in that part of Slovenia, which, if we call it, is more karst, which has cracks. And there, we know that the radiation of the radon is greater. What I wanted to say in this response is that since 2010, we do not have any more system-planned resources to implement so-called systemic and intervention measures with these system-planned funds. This is an intervention co-financing measure to reduce or to ensure that children are no longer exposed to dangerous radon radiation. What we have done in recent years is that in the sector for investment in preschool and primary education, we have made a list of all those kindergartens and primary schools that are exposed to radion radiation that the Radiation Administration has identified and issued decisions on this. For all of these objects that were on this list, which is now a few years old, the decision has gone in the direction that ventilation is sufficient. In that particular case that you are asking about, however, ventilation is by no means sufficient as a measure. Therefore, a systematic approach will have to be made, and a temporary solution needs to be found at the moment. Talks at our ministry with the Montenegrin primary school have already been held, so we will also be working in this direction in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr Bevk has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! My procedural proposal is not bound by Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, where the Member is usually not satisfied with the reply, but by Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that, due to the time limit, the Minister was unable to answer the question. In fact, I have already asked this question at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, where Minister Tomaž Gantar was responsible to me and we have spent all this time at that time, so today, Minister Jernej Pikal has only been held to answer him for a few minutes, to be precise, only two minutes. In such a short time, of course, it is not possible to answer such a complex question as the issue of the safety of public institutions addressed by the Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety. With regard to the specific problem at the primary school in Črni Vrh nad Idrij, however, the fact that the Institute of Occupational Protection has completed its official measurements, that the secondary and caged spaces are severely exceeded by levels of toxic gas radon and that students cannot be exposed to such harmful radiation. Therefore, the competent inspector ordered the rehabilitation of this part of the school and the students will be able to continue their studies at the upper level of the school which are not so affected. The Minister of Health, Tomaž Gantar, who is unfortunately no longer Minister of Health today, told me that under Article 46 of the Law on the Protection against Ionising Radiation and Nuclear Safety, the State must provide funds for the rehabilitation of such affected areas of the public institution. I hope that happens. As we have heard today, system resources are not available, so in my opinion the country must use the budget reserve and provide money for projects that need to be developed first and then for recovery only. As Minister Gantar said at the November meeting, I quote, "it is probably clear to everyone that we can no longer expose these children to excessive burdens and that such funds will have to be provided in one way or another." On this procedural question, I ask Minister Jerne Pikal to answer this question in writing, based on Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, because [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you. We turn to the next question raised by Mrs Romana Tomc, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go, Mrs. Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities regarding the further organisation of student work in Slovenia. The fact is that one of the biggest problems we are facing today is job shortages and that our unemployment has increased to almost 120,000 unemployed. The proportion of unemployed young people is particularly increasing, which has also increased compared to the previous year. During the Minister's ministry, several measures have been taken in the framework of pension legislation, which encourages employers to employ young people. You yourself have proposed some measures, and I believe that these activities will continue in this direction. New programmes, also funded by the European Community. So we support all of this. On the other hand, we are aware that the student work at this time is one of the exits, and those that young people do not actually want to serve, but they must be saved from their difficulties. 30 000 are about fictitiously enrolled, so research says, and all these students are just doing it because, not because they don't want to study, not because they don't want to be employed, but because it's the only way to make some money and contribute to the family budget. And of course in such times it is particularly difficult to solve this problem of student work, which is a real anomaly in Slovenia. I would have reminded you two years ago when the referendum was infamously failed, in which people strongly rejected the way the work was done, the way the student work was regulated, as you and then Minister Svetlik had imagined. That's why I'm asking you because I hear that the government intends to address this question: How do you now plan to resolve the issue of student work in view of the bad experiences of the past and also given that it is an extremely sensitive time of high unemployment? And as I have already stated in the question, I am particularly interested in this: What additional burdens will be foreseen [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] student work with new taxes and contributions, compared to the current situation? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you. I give the floor to Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. A student’s work is certainly one of the areas that await us and urgently need to be regulated. Our country received a recommendation from the European Commission that this area should be regulated in 2004. The anomaly of the Slovenian labour market is a student’s work or occasional and temporary work of students and students, which mainly caused a lot of, especially, age segmentation in the labour market. In your question, you raised fear or concern about regulating student work so as not to create new unemployment among young people. That's definitely what we'll have in mind when we edit our student work. However, at this point it should be pointed out that the student work after calculations, I think that the University of Primorska was working at the time of the preparation of the small part of the study, takes up the student work of about 36,000 jobs, and also needs to be looked at mainly in terms of the impact on the creation of new jobs. In any case, caring for young people is one of the priorities in student work. We are aware that student work enables young people to contact the labour market and, on the other hand, gives them the opportunity to earn extra money and thus improves their social situation and, on the other hand, provides employers with adequate flexibility in the labour market to some extent. On the inside, we will be looking for solutions in the direction that I have said several times in public, in the direction "every work counts", and on the other hand, restrictions at the level of the employer will have to be given, as has been arranged for the intervention of the work, i.e. the issue of agency workers. We have already joined the preparations in June, to coordinate the starting points for the organisation of the student work and we can say to a large extent that the starting points themselves have been aligned with the representatives of the students, we have presented them publicly now at the Chamber of Commerce and we will also present them to the unions in a short time. However, the law will be publicly available in early January. There will also be an official public debate on student work arrangements and sufficient time for a thorough debate. In addition to the representatives of students also for social partners and other interested public. The key solutions, which are now a proposal and will also be enshrined in the law to be discussed in the public debate, go mainly in the direction of 'each work counts'. The burden will be 15.50% from the point of view of students and students, where they would pay contributions for pension and disability insurance, while the burden of employers will be lower than now and 20.88%. Now this burden on employers is 25% because this concession with Zuyfa has been lifted. Within this 20.88% is the proposal for employers to pay 8.85% of the employer’s contribution to pension and disability insurance, 0.53% of the employer’s contribution to injuries at work and occupational diseases, 7.5% would be the concession fee and 4% would be the costs of student workers, where we maintain this mode of intervention, but no more concessions are provided, but the work permits, as was regulated for the agencies. There will also be restrictions at the level of employers on the number of employees, followed by quotas, which will in particular be the process of negotiating with employers and trade unions. However, the logic is that smaller employers have less room for manoeuvre to adapt to the need for a new workforce is greater, so the restrictions will be more rigorous for the larger ones. At the student level, we believe that it is possible to prevent and abuse this institution of student work by means of uniform registration records and also by amendments to the law in this field. There are no additional restrictions at the level of students and students at this time, but in the public hearing process something can be changed in this area. There are certainly loads to make student work still among less burdened forms of work, even if compared with copyrights, business contracts, with occasional and temporary work [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] pensioners will be comparable to other forms of work.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you. Mrs Tomc has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. I must say that with some numbers you have pleasantly surprised me because you already have them in mind, while with another part I cannot somehow be satisfied, given that I see the matter going in exactly the same direction as it went in the recent collapse of the law at the referendum in 2011, where you also stressed that it is primarily about the implementation of the principle of 'every work counts'. And then you stated how all the contributions would be charged with this student work. I would like to remind you that the concept of "each work counts" is primarily considered in the work, where these contributions are then taken into account also in the rights such as pension insurance and health insurance, which I have no doubt will. I'm worried about something else. You said that the burden of new employers will be lower than it is now, because there will be no concession fee as high as it is now. You didn't explain very clearly, so maybe I misunderstood you. But the concession fee, to be perfectly clear, is intended to provide scholarships. Therefore, if you reduce the concession fee, you will withdraw part of the grant funds. That can only mean two. Whether the budget will have to ensure the difference to maintain the current value or whether the scholarship will be less. And there's something else I'd like to add to the end. Yeah, jobs, 36,000 are supposed to be taken away by college students. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Work. [[...]] Let's ask ourselves why. The fact is, the work in Slovenia is too burdensome. If that were not the case, employers would employ, so to speak, the usual [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? I give the floor to Minister Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u58	Here it should be stressed that the concept of 'every work counts' has also been carried out at the level of rights. Here is quite a few changes, given the small work, and this certainly holds, and here I think that the majority who went to the referendum and rejected the concept of small work was not against the concept of 'every work counts' because I believe most realize that this is the only possibility of preserving the social state. Here is the concept of 'every job counts', students and students will pay, as is the employment relationship, that employees and employers pay contributions to pension and disability insurance. They will also have full recognition of these rights from this title. We will bring a number of new funds to this account, which is also important in terms of intergenerational solidarity. However, you are right about the student work, the concession will be lower, and before this proposal was also a public day, we agreed within the government, because this student work will bring more resources into pension and disability insurance, which is right, the budget will provide funding for scholarships, which was also one of many student perceptions, that through their student work they will provide funding for scholarships and that this should be arranged in a different way. This is how we approached things in this way, and I think this is much more correct and much more transparent. I believe when this proposal is in public debate that all stakeholders will find that they have certain benefits with this proposal. As such, the European Commission agrees with the proposal, in particular in the direction of reducing the segmentation of the labour market in Slovenia, and this is ensured in particular by bringing the price of individual work closer to the price of the individual work, that the prices are more uniform and that it is important to maintain flexibility in the student work, that the layout system, which is mostly issued in electronic form, is maintained. Thus, this key element of student work is maintained – flexibility, and it is right to ensure that, according to the concept, "every work is considered" to be paid from this form of work to social treasury because, according to the student's status, students are protected for health care, but it is also right to associate with pension and disability, because this will also be linked to the recognition of work experience, which is also an important element of the regulation and improvement of the situation of young people in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you. The next question to be asked is Mr Dragan Bosic. He will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Pikalu. Here you go, Mr. Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question relates to the analysis of the results of PISA 2012, which were accidentally published on 3 December on the birthday of the Slovenian Poetry Giant, and can therefore be even less acceptable, at least some of these results. It is read, mathematical and natural literacy. The comparison shows a trend of decline, although it is not, as I understand from the reports, statistically significant or urgent, but it is certainly a decline particularly in the field of reading literacy by 2.2 points. Various comments were made in this regard. My question stems from the comments of the Director of the Pedagogical Institute of Ms Mojce Stravs, who said that this is a positive stability, saying that for a long time these results have been where they are. That's one definition that makes me a problem. Stability in itself means a stagnation in this world, not only if this stability with a slight trend in mathematics is 0.8 when reading 2.2 and in science or science 0.8, the first was 0.6. That's why I'm really curious: What do you intend to do in this area? It's some inherited situation, but the perspective has to be clear. If we look at East, Shanghai, Hong Kong, Singapore and their three-year acceleration, it's hard to understand. Otherwise this alarm does not just go to Slovenia, it goes to others who stagnate here. Maybe that's all there is to it as an interest. At least reading literacy has not attributed such progress to the use of ICT in the East, but it has apparently only contributed to their better result.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you. I give the floor to Dr. Jerne Pical, Minister of Education, Science and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, too, for that question. I think that exactly what you said, everything that happened or everything that happens around these results, but these are not the only results that show in this case the poorer reading literacy of Slovenian 15-year-olds, of course, are worrying. And here I think it is wrong that we keep our eyes closed in any way, even less so that we make politics out of it, but simply admit that the results are not really good and that in this area we need to strain all the strengths, all the opportunities we have to improve literacy. It is also not just about wanting to be better in the next test or in the next study. But simply reading literacy is one of those basic literacys that a person has, and it's not just about being good at the test. The point is that we want our children to be empowered in this regard. You will understand what you have asked me last time that I cannot comment here in front of Parliament, that there are probably a number of reasons for this, but what we have done in our ministry is that we have already issued, reviewed the strategies and approaches that various countries have in this area and also issued a book called the Teaching of Reading in Europe, circumstances, policies and practices. The study focused on four key topics: learning approaches on the one hand, reading problems on the other, teacher education on the third hand, and what is important on the other, we forget many times, and this is the promotion of reading outside schools. What we found with a comparative analysis, because it is a European comparative analysis, is that what we often lack is what we call focus. We have within this reading literacy a particular group that is particularly at risk. These are boys who are worse at reading literacy than girls, then they are children from socially disadvantaged families, and especially children of immigrants need to be exposed here. That's what our research shows. These are the parts — of course within this population that have lower literacy, on which we need to focus in particular. You have very different strategies here. One strategy would be just preparing for the next WRITE, which will be in three years, but I personally think that this is too small, too small for entire generations to come and come to have satisfactory reading literacy. To achieve this, we need to increase the variety of reading materials, develop motivation for reading, develop reading habits or learn reading opportunities for all those who can do so, even at the preschool level and so on. However, as far as our specific ministry is concerned, we can say that according to the results of PISA, the previous PISA of the year, I think that 2009, which was published after 2010, we have implemented the programme on the basis of all these analyses. The project was completed on 31 October this year by the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia at 42 primary schools, which had so-called multipliers. And now if you're asking me about the multipliers, I think about 200 teachers were involved in this project in one way or another. As usual, at school these things do not quickly produce results. And what we're going to do and what I've already ordered is first analyze the so-called secondary data. What we have heard so far, what has been public, of course, is not enough. We want deeper data, we want to know what to do from here on out and then with experts to take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Bosić has a proposal or request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thanks for the answer or this part of the answer. I agree with you, absolutely, that there must not be any tendency for one test to be better solved for three years, but that it is some systemic setting that results. However, everything happens when we talk about mathematics, about nature, about anything, everything comes from reading literacy, I probably agree with that, and from reading understanding. And if that's low, there's basically two reasons. I'd like a supplement here in this sense, if there's two of them, so that's one thing you're reading and you don't understand, but the other is that you're not reading too much if I'm simplifying. In that sense, you were talking about settings. But I, apart from a reading badge that has a long beard, haven't noticed one, so I'm going to use the expression, the popularization of motherhood. I'm worried about this motherhood thing. It's also on graduation. I want to know how much you've put this into your future thinking. Finally, it is also a national test of knowledge that is within a certain period of nine years. I read this about the experiences of the Germans or about their shock in 2000. And the Poles who changed their plans after 50 years. Doesn't seem to be waiting 50 years for any action. I'm asking for an additional explanation for what I just asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? Mr. Minister Pikalo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much. With great pleasure. If I start with national knowledge checks. In national knowledge checks, we find exactly the same as is now found in PISA, so it is clear that it is not only a one-time event, but we have a sample. Our students are relatively good at this so-called lower taxonomic level after national knowledge checks. In short, they can recognize the text, read it, etc. But when it comes to higher taxonomy levels, when it comes to the use of this text, when it comes to the question of, if you want, interpretations of this text, so that something with this text can be done, which is basically read literacy, but here we have bigger problems. And this shows us both the national knowledge checks and, of course, the Pisa results. As far as the action is concerned. One of the measures that stems from these national knowledge checks that we introduced this year is that there is a numerical evaluation in the third class. Why a numerical evaluation? So that parents and teachers can get good feedback on how well the child has been described. And that's what they get at the expense of that grade. As far as the popularisation of mother tongue is concerned, I think you are very right, but this nation is based on language and this component will also need to be incorporated. But there is another component here, which is just as important. That is, as I call it, the cultural status of the text, what we are actually doing with the text. Whether we have, especially in these so-called international comparisons, whether we have the same relationship to the text, or whether we are doing the same with the text. As it is said, you are right and your motherhood in this sense also in the competition for Cankar's recognition, and something else, should be popularized. If I may just be a little bit more complete than I said before. One is the analysis of secondary data, the other is the preparation of a consultation with experts, then it's an expert discussion, that's all we want to do. And then we're going to use the funds to do that, because it's crucial that we first empower teachers so that this knowledge, as far as literacy is concerned, can be passed on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Bosic has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u68	I'm happy with the answers. The procedural proposal is usually a recitation to require an analysis in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246. But I wouldn't ask you to, because I don't think the National Assembly is exactly a place to talk about reading literacy. However, my expectations are in this sense that after these analyses, which the Minister spoke of, but only possible [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u69	Mr Bosic, I must remind you that this part of the debate is intended to put forward a procedural proposal rather than a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thanks for the heads-up. However, I would expect us to hold a debate on the Education Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform you that the Government has informed me that the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark will be present in the National Assembly until 17.50 at this point of the agenda. I give the floor to Mrs Sonja Ramšak, who will ask the Minister for Defence Roman Jakić.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In particular, welcome to the Minister of Defence to whom I will address my oral question. Dear Minister! On Wednesday, we learned from the media that you are being investigated as the former director of the sports centre in connection with the disputed contract, whose co-signatory was you as the director of the sports institution, on the basis of which Grep was to obtain appropriate bank loans. On the basis of this disputed credit agreement, certain conditions or guarantees are to be fulfilled in order for a private undertaking to obtain these loans. This is a big bank hole, about 100 million. Your statement was also published in the media that in this police investigation conducted by the NPU, no burdensome materials were found in your home on Wednesday morning. However, the investigation should be conducted on the basis of your consent, given your absence. This also raises a question for other ministers, but this is not the subject of today's oral question of how these police investigations are being conducted, whether the person knows in advance or that the consent to be able to carry out an investigation can be carried out. I thought it was going a different way. Given that you are a defence minister, that you are a protected person, that you also play an extremely important role and function in the government, I am asked some other questions that are related to this particular police investigation. Given that you were the director of the Tivoli Institute and are now serving as the Minister of Defence, if or if there are other investigative ways, it is said that secret investigative methods may also be used, I am asked: How will you, given that you did not, as soon as it came to the public to have an investigation against you, withdraw what you would expect from you as Minister of Defence, to secure any evidence that might be obtained in these proceedings? This is because it is classified or classified defence-security data. [[sign for the end of the debate]] If the indictment and then the procedure itself were legally binding, this information would become publicly available. My question is: How this investigation will affect [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Roman Jakic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u74	Madam President, I thank you for the question. As you correctly stated in your question, the forecasting procedure refers to the time when I served as Director of the Tivoli Department and not to the time when I serve as Minister of Defence. In the conversation I had at the National Investigation Office last week, I was not aware that any specific investigation methods would have been used in the investigation at the time when the Director of the Tivoli Institute was used, nor would they have been used later, that is to say at the time that I was already the obituary minister. That's why, of course, I could only speculate on it. But I do not want to speculate, so I will listen carefully to the other part of your question to see if you know anything more or if you have information that I have been bugged by or listened to as a defense minister or that I am being led by covert methods of investigation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramšak has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u76	Of course, Mr. Secretary-General, I expected you to say something like that. Of course I don't have that information. Of course, if further procedures were to be followed, there could also be the introduction of covert investigative methods. And that is why, in fact, I also directed you to protect the defence and security data, it would be right and to allow for an independent investigation of an institution such as the National Investigation Office. It is an office investigating the most serious crimes related to economic crime, corruption and the like. I also think that your arrival in Slovenia was announced for Tuesday evening, and we only learned from the media on Wednesday that the falcon had been landed in Moscow, although the temperatures at the airport in Moscow were around -9 degrees, but we know that high altitude planes also fly at -50 or even more. Dear Minister, I think that, given that Mr Majhenič himself said that they had already – not now in this house investigation, but before – found some of the data that burdened you, I think it would be moral and ethical for them to give up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u77	I give the floor to Mr Roman Jakić.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. I told you when I'd step down. When a legal indictment is filed. And I'm gonna be the one who's really gonna do it. I will not go to court in the role of Defence Minister, just as the Prime Minister, your President Janez Janša, once the indictment has been filed. We're all the same before the law. And it's right that the NPU is investigating. I have made available to them all the information I have in this regard, but of course I once again claim to have acted legally and as a good master in my previous service. But you asked about the use of special investigative methods against me at the time I was serving as Secretary of Defense. I think that such use would be unusual in my opinion, because, as it is said, the police are investigating an alleged crime that would have occurred before I was appointed Minister. Otherwise, if you want a direct response, as Minister of Defense, I respect the laws and, after open electronic connections, I don't transfer classified data. I'm bound by Section 39 of the Secret Data Act, and I don't communicate in any way to transfer classified information. For such cases, as you know, we have the necessary technique in the government to enable secure communication. However, it is true that, after electronic communications, I communicate on a number of topics with a number of important interlocutors both at home and abroad, not on those who carry a degree of secrecy, but on those subjects, are definitely important for the functioning of the defence and security system. Such communications have nothing to do with the alleged crimes being investigated by the police. In the event that the police have been monitoring this communication, I expect that the data will be obtained, of course, I speak for the work as Minister of Defence, that the data obtained will be adequately protected, as prescribed, so that the data will be properly destroyed quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramšak has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that a general debate be held. In particular, I believe that, despite the fact that these are acts that are being investigated and which are not solely related to the role of Minister of Defence, I think that in any other democratic country, the Minister of Defence or any other minister would immediately resign. It is true, however, that the rule of law works for everyone, including you, the well-respected minister. But moral-ethical values are something higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mrs Ludmila Novak, Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you for the floor. During the period of economic growth, banks financed a number of real estate projects of companies and also of natural persons, both the purchase of real estate and the investment itself. The insurance for these loans were, as a rule, real estate that was the subject of the purchase or on which the investment was planned. As the economic and financial crisis broke out, borrowers – companies as well as natural persons – were no longer able to repay their credit obligations, and business banks preferred reprogramming their loans to cash out their insurance. Which, of course, means that banks have acquired a number of properties in various construction phases, from unfinished, unfinished and also completed. With all these properties, banks are not able to manage well, and they obviously have no real interest in managing it. Thus, many properties are alone, destroyed, and lost to value. For example, there are a number of already completed flats that are empty, with which banks as owners even have the costs and obligations of paying taxes, but do not offer them on the market. The value of these properties is extremely high and is estimated by economists to be measured even in billions of euros. I ask the Minister, given that a large proportion of such properties are owned by banks owned by the majority of state-owned banks, I ask: What measures does the Ministry intend to take to ensure the efficient and cost-effective management and management of the real estates that have been transferred to these banks by means of the cashing-up of the insurance? We expect it to be owned by banks as well as credit institutions on the basis of the adopted amendment of the Financial Insurance Act in the coming months and years of such real estate. In banks and credit institutions, no one calls anyone to account for such poor real estate management.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you. Since the Minister is absent, will he provide a written reply within thirty days — or do you insist on an oral response?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u84	Please, if the Minister responds orally at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you. The next question to be raised is Mr Samo Bevk, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Samo Omerzel, who is also absent. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I ask Sam Omerzel, Minister responsible for infrastructure and space: What projects will be financed under the fourth development axis in the current financial perspective 2007-2013, as we know that these works can be implemented in 2014 and 2015? And I'm especially interested in: What projects does our country propose to finance from the European Union funds in the financial perspective 2014-2020? We know that virtually the only potential investment resource we have available for investments in state road infrastructure is the money we will receive from the European Union, as we have reduced the funding of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads by 61 million in 2014 and 77 million euros in the 2015 budget. We could also read in one of Saturday's clocks a precise list of projects, I think there are 32 where the works will stop completely. A number has been written to stop or slow down 709 other investment projects. I think that stopping all these preparatory works from planning, land purchases, investment documentation, putting new routes into space, making state spatial plans is a bad decision, and I think we need to change this decision. In particular, since it is suggested that the Minister could redistribute unused funds in the field of investment in railway infrastructure within his department. We know that 390 million euros are available to the country in this area. I find it difficult to believe that these funds will be fully spent and could be transferred to the maintenance and construction of state road infrastructure. I also ask the Minister: What is the fate of continuing to build a Polish carriage? How is the placement of the route on the fourth development axis between Cerkni and Gorenje village? Please let me [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u87	I'm sorry, I didn't finally understand whether you wanted the minister to give a written answer in thirty days because he's gone, or do you insist on an oral response? If I understand correctly, it is a proposal to respond orally at the next meeting. Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Justice Minister Dr. Senko Plitchanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u88	Dear Minister! I was kind of surprised by the news that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cancelled control of the work of the Attorney General. Let me remind you, and everyone else at the same time, that the government of Borut Pahorje appointed Mr Boštjan Škrlec to the post of Director-General of the State Prosecutor's Office on a prescribed basis one day before its ceremony. I was already on the first day because I was also responsible for the prosecution’s work, and I warned that it was a totally illegal appointment. Of course, the Attorney General responded and said it was political pressure on him. I then asked, through the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the competent minister, that this decision on the appointment of Mr Škrlec be repealed. This was also seen by the Attorney-General as political pressure on him. However, please be careful, Mr Škrlec has also complained, and the Administrative Court – this is the most important part of my parliamentary question below – the Administrative Court has ruled that the appointment was illegal and that the law has been misused. I especially point out two things: illegal appointment and abuse of the law. That means the Attorney General abused the law. This was determined by the Administrative Court. Of course, that's why I asked for control, watch out, just control over this work. And the Attorney General said it was political pressure on him and he rejected the case in accordance with the law. And the previous government, which you were in, confirmed that control would be carried out. I think it was March 13th of this year. And this government canceled it last week or ten days ago. In view of some other information coming from the Attorney General's Office, I personally find the situation worrying. In particular, I would like to point out that, in my role as Minister, which he was leaving at the time, I have notified Mr Skrlec or the Attorney General of the conduct of his actions to the Commission in order to prevent corruption. The Anti-Corruption Commission has, therefore, been investigating this matter for eight months, possibly nine months now, and has found nothing. Mr. Klemenčič is on his way out, and he's meeting the suspect nicely. This suspect is the Attorney General's Attorney-General in this case. I expect you to do something. To oversee the Attorney General's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u90	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Gorenak! Your question consists of two sets. First of all, what about the supervision of the work of the State Prosecutor's Office regarding the appointment of Mr Škrlec and, secondly, what is the situation after the previous Government repealed the decision on his appointment. He then sued in an administrative dispute, lost there, and then we have a situation here. There are two sets of questions. On the first, let me say that in fact the government has overturned the decision you're talking about. That's because she doesn't have any left. She had to do it for two reasons. The first refers to the time frame in which this control is to be carried out and the second refers to the composition of the control group. I can say that, for purely procedural reasons, this decision has been issued, and I will remove its decision from the previous mandate – I will explain why – which does not mean that once the situation as it is today is established, this control will not continue in accordance with the law and the provisions of the law in this regard. We had to react, and now I'm going to explain why. Maybe three more words about what's behind it at all. In fact, the Government cannot take such a decision on the exercise of control if the State Prosecutor's Council does not give an opinion under the law in force. Let me say that the State Prosecutor's Council did not give that opinion. Then I will explain further what argument he did not make. However, the previous government, that is, Mr Janša's government, then decided that control would still be carried out, although the State Prosecutor's Council of this opinion, which I had just discussed, did not give it. The problem that we have hit with is purely formal procedural nature, but, as I said, the composition of the control group and the time frame. For after the government had decided, as I had just said, that control would be carried out even though there was no opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council, it had decided that control should be carried out at the time of 18. 2. 2013 to 22. 2. 2013 However, no control could be carried out in this time frame. That's the first one. So we have a time frame in which control is supposed to take place, but it's not. However, the decision is based on this time frame. That's the kind of information I have, Comrade Gorenak. The composition of the supervisory group should be such that, in addition to the employees of the Ministry of Justice, it should also be composed of external members. Neither have these external members been co-opted into this control group. So if the government wanted to, this government, the current government, to implement this decision, had hit on two problems: the time frame already in the lane had passed, and the control group, which was not the same as it was supposed to be in the conclusion. That is why we have no choice but to remove this decision of the previous government on the exercise of control and start from now on, which means that, at the same time as we have removed, if you have been careful, we have also adopted a decision calling upon the Council of State to re-examine its opinion on whether or not it agrees with supervision. And when this opinion is obtained, then the procedure will proceed as the law provides. Once again, this was all necessary only because the decision of the previous government contained two contents that were no longer current or could not be implemented. However, as regards the appointment of Mr Skrlec as Director-General of the State Prosecutor's Office, as I mentioned earlier, this appointment decision was repealed by the previous government. In an administrative dispute, the Administrative Court rejected his action, and then according to my information, the Ministry of the Interior is 25. 1. 2013 issued an invitation to state prosecutors to submit applications for allocation for the performance of the Director-General's duties. On this basis, he was appointed to serve as Director General, Mr Škrlec. The law in force on the State's Attorney's Office allows for two ways for a person to become the Director-General. One of these is the allocation, and it was then used at a time, if I understand correctly, by the previous governments. 25. 1. This call was issued, I'm sorry, I apologize. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] These governments. [[...]] 4. 4. In 2013 a decision was taken by the Attorney General, who decided to appoint Senior State Prosecutor Boštjan Škrlec to perform his duties. More in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u92	Yeah, just for a little while, time doesn't let me. What you said from 18 to 22. 2. Yeah, that's right. But that was the period when the Attorney General had the right to say no and said no. Therefore, the control was not carried out and the government decided that it must be carried out. As far as this second piece is concerned, look, Minister, I'm saying he's out there today. You said he was assigned and so on. The law provides for something else, one special procedure, which has not been carried out in this case. But that's not the point. The point I would like to remind you and the Slovenian public is the following. Look, everything shows that the Attorney General's Office is an extremely important political fortress. Let me draw your attention to some of the things we've been given in the past. We were able to see in the media the very clear question at the time of the appointment of the new government, then the Janšev government, that Attorney General Fischer was walking around and that he went to former President Türk and said that Mr Janković would be the one or that proceedings were against him and that the President of the country did not then decide to propose again for Mr Jankovic. If that's true, of course. We could see that in that part. Second. At the time I led the Ministry of the Interior alone, we came up with information, or the media wrote that he had made clear instructions that prosecutors should use the best measures against demonstrators, no matter what demonstrators do with the police who were injured. I'm not talking about a financial investigation against Mr. Janša. The anonymity turned out to be accurate. Now what it is, the prosecutor is also supposed to lead the action Maneken against the President of the Republic of Slovenia after these anonymities. If that's true, it's worrisome. Minister, I think you need to check things out. If someone claims that the president of the country is "invulnerable fool", what it says, I apologize to the public and to all of you, it is necessary [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u93	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you. Let me continue where I left off. Once the Government has obtained the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council on supervision, it will proceed as provided for in the current law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Nothing has been decided here that there will be no control. We just corrected these formal flaws that I was talking about earlier. With regard to the appointment of Mr Skrlec as Director-General, let me say that the law in force on the State Prosecutor's Office governs two possibilities for someone to carry out these tasks. The first is the appointment of the Director-General and the second is the appointment of an already existing Attorney-General to perform the functions and tasks of the Director-General. I have to admit, this arrangement in marriage is bad, it's impenetrable, it's weird. But that's what she is. There's both options. And as I said earlier, it was used in this appointment, now the last one, not the one that was annulled by the decision of the previous government, this second option, that is, the possibility of allocation made by the State Prosecutor's Council on the proposal of the Attorney General 4. 4. 2013 That's the situation today. Whether the first appointment was lawful or not — and in this regard, in the previous government, you have also initiated the control that we have discussed so far — and this, as I said earlier, will continue after we have obtained the opinion of the State Prosecutor’s Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Okay, I don't have any special problems with your answer and with you doing surveillance. I still claim that this second assignment was illegal. But we can't argue, I'm aware of that. I propose a debate on this parliamentary question, not so much about the Minister's response, which I hope he will indeed exercise this control. I have no reason to doubt that this control would be carried out. But I simply propose a debate in this National Assembly for a fundamental reason, because I no longer believe in the coincidence of all these journalists' writings, I no longer believe in the coincidence of anonymous writings and so on. Let me base the matter on why it seems necessary for me to have a debate. For a simple reason, if they hold to the suggestion that it had an impact on the composition of the government when Mr Jankovic should have been given such a mandate, then this did not happen because of his intervention. If that's true, it's alarming. Another time. There was very serious information, and the media also reported that he had instructed prosecutors not to simply prosecute the abusers or use the most appropriate measures. That's what the media wrote about. This anonymous woman, who was last received, who spoke about what was going on in the prosecution and that a financial investigation had been initiated, I will not interfere with this financial investigation, this is a matter of the prosecutors. But the point is, if that one turned out to be accurate, then why couldn't we trust the anonymouss or at least check the anonymouss talking about the Manken action? If, I stress, if, and if, in fact, the truth is that anyone in the Attorney General's Office is talking about the need to initiate an investigation against the President of the State, but not because anything would be a problem for the President of the State to do anything, but simply because, as an anonymous person says, he is sitting there as a harmless fool, I apologize to the public and to all of you. That's what it says in anonymous. Because he's not useful to our cause, in his concoctions. Because it doesn't help the political left, [[sign for the end of the debate]] But he's doing his job. See, if the truth is that anyone thinks about it, then it's an alarm of the first kind in this country. And I seriously expect the National Assembly to support the request for this debate, not so much about the Minister's response, but I am technically taking advantage of this matter, but simply to encourage you, Minister, to carry out thorough control, and secondly to tell the Slovenian public what is going on there. And if anything is true, this National Assembly will act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 December, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Alenka Jeraj will ask the next question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister of Education, Dr. Jerne Pical. Minister, at the end of the school year and the day of statehood this year, you have highlighted the value of love for your country as one that is common to us and also part of the Slovenian educational system. That's why I'm asking you: What measures is the Ministry taking to ensure this objective of primary education, which can be read in Article 2 of the Basic School Act, namely to develop awareness of nationality, national identity, behaviour on the history of Slovenians and their cultural and natural heritage and to promote civic responsibility? They happen to us daily, I can say, excesses or inappropriate events after our schools, especially in primary schools. Let me write them down. Recently, one of the teachers, on November 29, the day we celebrated the day of the Republic in a non-democratic and totalitarian system, came to school in uniform and perhaps even with weapons. We are witnessing various recordings of school events when children dress up as pioneers and explain to them how a positive system we once lived and had, and of course they are not told that human rights have been violated and so on. Now we have an opportunity to see the exhibition about Titus in Ljubljana and some schools have taken the children to the exhibition. Isn't it a little strange that the author of this exhibition doesn't want to be public, so we can't even verify his expertise? We know that Titus, the German Bild, has classified the top 10 criminals in the world. We also know that our Constitutional Court has banned Titus’s road because it has judged him to be a completely inappropriate person or that it is inappropriate for him to be named after any road. What will a 12 - year - old 13 - year - old from going to this exhibition gain? While you wrote in your reply to my colleague that the participation of children in various exhibitions is not educationally inappropriate and that they contribute to further education and dissemination of the horizon of students and students. By this logic, we would also take students and students to the pit of the Devil and show them their views on what the previous regime was doing and how things were happening at that time. But since we know that it's probably not appropriate for 12-year-olds and 11-year-olds to show the Hud Cave mine with the bodies, we don't do that, but we make the right decision about where we're going to take them and what we're going to show them. In the subject of Ethics, the teacher explains to the students how important Tito was, how much he loved children. That's why I want to know: Have any warnings come to the Inspectorate in this regard and how the Inspector acted and what measures you have taken in this regard? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Jerney Pikalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President and, of course, Madam Members. If we go from specific to abstract first. As far as applying to the school inspectorate is concerned, I must say that at least I have no information on this, but we will be very happy to deliver it to you and I promise you now that if we have received any complaint in this regard, of course we can also present it to you. First time. Another time. As I wrote in my reply to your colleague, we did not recommend no one, of course we did not advise. And by no means are we the organizers of any kind, nor are we the exhibition you mention. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has nothing to do with this exhibition. As far as historical debates, debates on what is right and what is wrong, I think it is time for us to evaluate some things differently, to try to look at them in a more productive way. You know, patriotism isn't just for me, it's also, but it's not just the love of the flag, the anthem and the homeland, but if you ask me, patriotism or, if you want, the love of the country, the Habermasian one, that is, the daily maintenance of democratic structures. That's true patriotism, if we're talking. For as you well know, sweet and glorious is it not only for the motherland to die, but primarily for her to live. If we go to the specifics again now, to what we do at the Ministry of Homeland and Civil Education, I will say five things. One is called the outer features, which are what are called the symbols of one country, and by doing so we maintain a sense of the country at this very surface level. We're talking about the flag, we're talking about the anthem, we're talking about external, so-called outer markers. The other is what's called curicular content. As you know, this year's address has been changed, not only the address of civic and domestic education and ethics, but also domestic education has been added in view of the fact that more emphasis has been given to patriots, i.e. the country. Third time. We maintain cross-curriculum content, so not only those content that are packed into one or another subject, but we actually have the cross-curricular content that I can list for you in the subjects of society, Slovenian, history, geography, domestic and civic education and ethics and so on. In addition, we have in order to raise, under the slogans, national consciousness, the following substantive elements: individual, community of countries, community of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, civil culture and Slovenia, which is based on human rights, democracy and so on. These are content assemblies within the curicular or so-called crosculular content. Fourth time. We have selected subjects where our students can choose among these subjects which are certified, I stress, confirmed in the professional world. We're talking about discovering the past of my place, which is about learning about local history. We are talking about civil culture, we are talking about other objects or works that are intended for the historical review of self-reliance or self-reliance and then state ownership and so on. I can also tell you that since 2013 in 2014, since this year forward, we have in the ninth grade a revised history curriculum, which does not take this period of independence only and only, as it is called, chronologically, but places it precisely so that our students can learn more about this part of our history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraj, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you for saying that again. You once promised me that you'd give me an additional answer about Zuyfa, and I haven't received it by today. Now you're promising me something, I hope it'll work out. You said you had nothing to do with this exhibition, at the same time you said you were raising and wanting or understanding patriotism as maintaining democratic structures. Do you not then feel that you could be counseled to go to an exhibition about one of the greatest dictators or nondemocrats? That's your job, too. Some say not only what you do, but also what you don't do should be a problem. I will remind you of another question I have about the book of Yugoslavia, my country. What, are you saying you're giving them a feeling about your country? How does it feel to give first-year students their first-year years if you give them the book of Yugoslavia to my country? How will they feel about their homeland? They won't know what their country is if you give them a book like that. I was asking you about this book at the time. The novel really got Kresnik, was rewarded, but it's a novel for adults. There's an adult novel in the library, too, and we find it in the adult department. This was evidently the decision made by the librarians, while in your project, you named the novel a youth novel with the book Rastim. I'm having some trouble with that. I'm sorry. And also, given the contents you listed, I'm interested in where this book belongs, which of these sets. And that. In view of the fact that you say there are so many activities related to the country, and that students learn a lot about this: Then do you not find it strange that there are so many of these jugonostalgias and the glorification of Titus and the red star in schools if they actually have different instructions? Then I don't understand. Is it just that at one point everyone is somehow independent and so independent that there are some [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I'll be a little shorter this time. As far as art works are concerned. Unfortunately, I'm not the one who could judge, I think it would then be there, I think in the 19th century, when the minister judges artistic works according to political affiliation. The Minister also does not specify the UDK classifications where the book stands. But there's a book to read. This is just as they say that the Karamaz Brothers do not belong in high school or that any of Emil Zolaj does not belong in high school or that Master and Margaret may not belong in high school. You know, that's not gonna work. But I wanted to add one more thing to the matter of civic and domestic education. It's another important component. When we talk about what will happen in the future, we also have or have had in the past quite a few projects. And in the past, the ministry has been working under various ministers on this, so that we do not lastly have a network of different stakeholders dealing with active citizenship not only at the national level but also at a more local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraj, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u106	Yeah, sure. Minister, I know you don't define classification in the library. So explain to me how the same novel could once be a novel for adults the second time a youth novel. Where's the profession now? You didn't convince me. Of course, you Pilate wash your hands, I have nothing to do with knowing that you are the one who is responsible for high school, for the book, and this project is actually in charge of your colleague Mr Grilc, who is the Minister of Culture, but, as it were said, the book, ask a little bit about libraries, you borrow adults in libraries, young people don't, and I estimate that this is how we forced young people. And I don't think that's right. I therefore propose, in accordance with Article 246, that we discuss your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 December, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be raised by Mr Andrej Čuš, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to all ministers, representatives of the government, especially Minister Pical! A few weeks ago, the text of the Higher Education Act came into the public debate, and after the first days, as the text was published, only the law raised quite a bit of dust, from essentially the fact that public education will be the only education that will remain b Slovenia, to the point that it goes, we can say, for rough interventions to the autonomy of higher education. The Group of the Faculty of State and European Studies, composed of experts on constitutional law, administrative law, European Union law and human rights, has prepared a comment on the proposal for the amendment to the Higher Education Act and considers the proposal to be completely unacceptable. Its assumption and objective are a restaurant of university space based on provincial, exclusive, closed and self-sufficient logic. In the following group of experts, lawyers say: "The New Law on Higher Education is contrary to several articles of the Constitution." If we go in line: Article 14 of the Constitution, because it legitimizes the unequal treatment of private and public higher education, for example, in Article 5 and later, by which university higher education institutions and independent higher education institutions are established. Independent higher education institutions are universities, art institutes and higher education, i.e. without universities. Only as associate members of independent higher education and other institutions may be included in the university. Only a public university, for example, can establish a secluded company in the form of an economic society to privatise public education in order to transfer knowledge to the economy. The law is also contrary to Article 57 of the Constitution because it prevents free education in private education. It is also unacceptable for the Minister to lay down more detailed conditions regarding the number of places available, the payment of tuition, residence in student homes and other rights. The law is contrary to Article 58 of the Constitution because it interferes with the autonomy of universities and universities through excessive regulation. The law does not distinguish the autonomy of the university and higher education from academic freedom at all. The law is also contrary to Article 59 of the Constitution because it prevents or at least impedes the freedom of scientific creation. Article 74 of the Constitution should then be highlighted as it prevents a free initiative in the light of the opportunities offered by public education. It is also contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision as well as to infringements of European Union law, since the law is, in particular, contrary to the principles of freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services. I want to know: In view of these holes in the future, will you prepare any corrections to that law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Jerney Pikalo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for that question. That is why we had a public debate, so that everything that we have seen in so far very participatory working groups that have been preparing this law has been revealed. I have experienced this criticism or all public debate, I must say very well-intentioned; well-intentionedly so that these holes or different interpretations can be closed so that they can no longer be reached. The proposal has not been put into the procedure, we are now coordinating it further and will coordinate it further and, above all, we are correcting it, even in accordance with this criticism that has been given. There is no doubt that the law must be constitutionally appropriate and appropriate within the framework of the European acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you. I would also like to draw your attention to a press release prepared by students and representatives of the Student Organisation of Independent and Higher Education Institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, namely that the proposed Higher Education Act is contrary to constitutional principles and the Declaration of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, while rejecting its content because it brings the following: for the first time, lowering the quality of the study, since the reduction in the number of higher education institutions and programmes brought by the new law will not only mean a smaller choice, but also a smaller quality. In fact, it's competition that increases quality. Second of all, more tuition than a free study. The proposed method of funding will encourage public universities to reduce the number of places of entry in a free regular study, while concessions that now allow free studies in other higher education institutions will be reduced or fully eliminated. Thirdly, higher tuition, which will only make them able to study the richest. In addition, the discontinuation of an emergency study or its transformation may also increase the cost of implementing comparable forms of the study process up to three times. Fourthly, forced extension of studies and impeding lifelong learning. The abolition of the exceptional implementation of the study will lead to a much more substantial increase in the same study for all employees, as instead of incentives it brings only obstacles. As for the last important point, I would like to draw attention to the unequal position of students outside Ljubljana, as it is clear the purpose and the consequence of the law to remain free of charge in only two or three major Slovenian cities. Freedom to choose a study will be substantially narrowed, and the choice of studies near the home place is mostly disabled. Private colleges in Murski Sobota, Ptuj, Celje, Kranj, New Town and elsewhere in Slovenia will no longer be in place, making studies particularly difficult for the socially weaker or even disabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you, we have also received this message or these comments and will, of course, take them into account if possible. However, I would like to say that the law is ready, especially in the part where you were talking about an extraordinary, partial study and so on, in accordance with the National Higher Education Programme adopted by the National Assembly in 2011. However, I am committed to the documents and, above all, to the guidelines adopted by the National Assembly. The National Higher Education Programme is one of these and many conceptual solutions that we now introduce in this law or that we would like to introduce into law are, in fact, solutions from the National Higher Education Programme. And if I can do one thing like that, maybe a little bit of thinking, which also gives me a lot of thought. You know, Kant says somewhere that man is the only creature that needs education: children need education, adolescents need discipline, and scientists need instruction. But there are two human inventions that are harder than any other: one is the art of governance or the art of governance, and the other, of course, is the art of education. Both the art of governance and the art of education are to this day, I must say, we are arguing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. The next question will be raised by Mr Ivan Grill, Minister of Foreign Affairs in his capacity as Minister of Health, Mr Karl Erjavac, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first express my wish to receive an answer to my question at the next meeting by Minister Erjavac. As it is known, the predecessor of Mr Erjavac was also responsible for the functioning of the University Clinical Centre, and he was one of those who agreed that the Council of the Institute of the University Clinical Centre had previously resolved in an inviolable manner without any justification. In view of the numerous assumptions we can conclude that one of the reasons why it was possible for the abolition of the old world led by Dr. France Tsukati was that this Council wanted to introduce a change in the statutes of this institution, in the part where the audit service would oversee the proper functioning of this large budgetary consumer, so that this audit service would be subordinated to the board of the institution and not only to the administration or the head of the University Clinical Centre. Clearly, this audit service was subordinated to the management of this institution, but it cannot be certain that the reports they made were not written on the skin of the management, that they could neither disclose irregularities to the world nor to the public. Therefore, it would be right and also reasonable to submit to the world of the institution and to make its findings, in a positive or negative sense, to the Council of the Institute of the University Clinical Centre. How important this is, there is also experience from a number of irregularities that the world has been working very well at the Oncology Institute, where many irregularities have been identified and, as is known now, the police are also dealing with these irregularities. But the key thing is that the world is aware of the real state that the administration or management also manages in a given institution. That is why I would now like to ask Minister Erjavac to replace or cover this area to tell me: Will these efforts, already in the previous world, be made to introduce a change to the statute, where the audit service will be subordinated to the world, or that it will also provide support to the world? Will this, as the majority owner or the majority of the world, defend this thesis in order to bring about this change of statute? I am confident that this way the functioning of the University Clinical Centre will be more transparent and, of course, also for the benefit of all patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. You will receive your answer orally at the next meeting. The following question will be raised by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Porotat, Minister of the Interior of Dr Gregor Virant and Minister of Agriculture and Environment Dejan Židan, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much. So, honored ministers who are not present! More and more he warned of an extremely dangerous [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u119	Dr. Gregor Virant is present.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u120	Excuse me. I was looking at the tile. I don't know why. Yes, Mr. Secretary, so it is intended for you and for the absent Lord of the Jews. More and more he warned of extremely dangerous wild rides in the natural environment. Fly with four-wheel drive in the woods, race with cross-country engines, and ride with motor dreamers in the winter. That such driving is extremely dangerous both for nature, for animals, and especially for human health and life, we all know. This area is regulated by a number of legal and sub-legislative acts, and the powers of control are also conferred on several bodies, and my question is therefore addressed to both ministers. And I'm asking: First time. How often is driving in nature even subject to control? How many times have the police or the competent inspection service taken action in the event of detected violations in 2012 and 2013? How many reports of these violations were there? I also want to know: What is the total amount of fines imposed? Another time. The amount of the fine for this obstinacy is, in my opinion, too low, as it amounts to only €41.73 and €21 by the so-called half. Do you have a fine for an appropriate one? If not: What measures will you take? Third time. You don't need to register motor sleds, you don't need a driver's license to drive them. That's why I'm asking: Do you feel that the Minister-designate would be obliged to register and carry out the driving test and, as a result, take responsibility for the use of motor sled, the appropriate measure to address this problem? The promises made by previous ministers to deal with this issue remained only promises, namely, the fact that working groups have been set up to do so in order to promise to amend legislation in this area, including the increase in penalties and mandatory registration of motor vehicles. That's why I want to know: What are the conclusions of this working group? Will they, ladies and gentlemen, join in amending legislation in this area and when can we expect that? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you so much for asking. You rightly warned that wildling with motocrosses from spring to autumn then in winter with motor dreams in the natural environment causes damage to nature, to animals, and also to humans. And in fact, legislation in this area is flawed. This is now regulated by one regulation prohibiting motor vehicles in the natural environment under which the police exercise control. He's doing it on the basis of his applications. So if he gets a report, he reacts as opposed as he does preventively, the police are proactively taking on this surveillance, and every year he detects a very large number of violations. To be concrete, in 2010, the police dealt with 494 infringements of this Regulation, in 2011 - 564, in 2012 - 530 and by 7 December this year 494, so at the level of last year. Together in these years, including 2010, there are 2 000 82 offences. The fine, as you yourself have already stated in the question, is €41.73, so that the violators were given a total of €84 000 700 and a few euros in fines. Police are aware of their responsibilities to protect the natural environment against these abuses and participate in an interdepartmental working group led by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. Thus, next time your fellow Jew is present, he will explain to you how these issues are intended to be tackled. However, I can tell you what position the Ministry of the Interior is representing in this Interdepartmental Group. We stand in the position that it is necessary to raise the fine and balance it or to equalise it with fines for infringements of road traffic rules. So higher fines. Then these vehicles, motocrosses and motor sleds should be recorded in some way in order to better track down drivers. Then, in order to empower other supervisory authorities, in particular inspectors, to be able to stop, because they do not have this mandate now, only the police can stop, and if they do not stop, they cannot act and sanction the offence. And, of course, to enable legislation to enable the seizure of a vehicle under certain conditions. As in road transport, we have the possibility of seizing multiple returnees, where obviously there is no way to prevent people from continuing to mistreatment in traffic, and then their car is seized as a last resort if other measures are not possible to achieve the objective. These proposals will be taken into account. Of course, the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment is a colleague of mags. Diane Jedhan. According to my latest information, these issues will be resolved in the Nature Conservation Act. So it will not only go to the amendment of the existing regulation, but it will rise to the level of legal matter. So in the National Assembly you will consider changes and additions to the Nature Conservation Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u124	I thank you for this answer and I am very pleased that you intend to make changes in this area, but above all it is very important that these offences rise to the level of law so that they will no longer be at the level of the regulation. And of course, the fine itself will rise because this fine is so ridiculous that these people who are doing this are really making fun of the police who are stopping them, etc. That is how I think that if this amendment is introduced into this law, there will certainly be more order in this area. Above all, it is the prevention of these abuses, which now take place over nature and over the people and animals living in this space. complement, now if I think, if you can assure me that this will actually be, Mr. Secretary, I am very pleased. I expect, however, that Minister of the Jews next time, at the next assembly, if he is present here to make public his answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We've also recorded this proposal of yours. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u126	I thank the Members for their warning on this issue, because it is indeed a pressing issue. Once again, I fully agree with what you have said. The exact time frame, the timing of the formation of this law will be easier to explain to you, however, because he too will decide when he will put the law into the procedure, when he will come to the government and when he will then enter the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, will now raise the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, hello! In the wake of the latest affair that we could follow in the newspapers and other media, we have come to the conclusion that a larger number of licenses or purchases have been sold in our country. According to some estimates of a thousand 500 or even more, up to 2,000. These are the numbers that appear, and a large number of false certificates of compulsory safe driving courses have also been issued, resulting from extremely serious road traffic violations by these individuals. That's why I'm asking you: Why did the police not seize false documents in the forecasting process, and — these persons are also potential suspects — thus preventing these persons from continuing to participate in road traffic? This is one of the possible procedures that the police can take into account in the process led by such a document. Since this has not happened, as far as is at least public knowledge, we have hundreds of people on our roads who are actually driving on roads without valid driving permits or who have bypassed those provisions of laws that have imposed a foreign sanction on them, if I say so, to carry out a safe driving course. This, of course, continues to endanger other road users, endangering all of us, the lives of children and the lives of all, especially pedestrians and cyclists who are most vulnerable in road transport. Our roads are already in bad shape, otherwise it is not your jurisdiction, and we already have a lot of trouble maintaining these roads. However, if we have a larger number of people who have false permits, forged permits, and if we leave this only to what has been made public to prove it in the proceedings, it is said that long-term judicial or administrative proceedings will last for several years. I believe that the police can act, that they can act faster and that we can act in some way preventively in this way. At the same time, I'm asking you: As Minister, what have you done with the levers at your disposal in connection with such issued driver's licenses so far? Have you issued any mandatory instructions, guidelines, or requested a review of the work in this area that is very difficult? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you. If I start in a positive way, I agree that every human sacrifice on the road is too much, and if one is alone, it's too much. The good thing is, from year to year, the number of deaths in traffic is decreasing. Today this number is 115, which is still too much for 115, but it is about 10% lower than last year and is the lowest in history at all. And thank God it's getting better! As far as this affair is concerned with driving licences or certification of tests carried out, which are the basis for driving licences or for erasure of penalty points, this is, of course, something terrible, something that we did not think could exist in this country. This story is mainly involved in those who actively did so, but of course also in those who are driving licences, these certificates and those exams or whatever they were, bought. So it's a really scary thing to get to the bottom of. The police have done a lot of work here, investigated these crimes without having to give her any specific instructions or guidance. She concluded these investigations to some extent, of course they are now continuing, but concluded to the point that she could also inform the public of the number of criminal complaints filed against a large number of persons and an even greater number of crimes. This way these things will be processed, through the State Prosecutor's Office they will come to the courts and eventually the perpetrators will also be convicted of crimes committed. The other thing that needs to be solved is these driver's licenses. I am convinced that it is necessary to ensure that these permits are withdrawn from circulation or cancelled as soon as possible. We cannot do that by seizing the police because the police can seize the documentation that is required as evidence in criminal proceedings. These driving licences, these booklets or cards will not have any special value in the evidence procedure because they have been issued on the basis of false indications. Administrative units issued these driving licences on the basis of false certificates of safe driving, for example, on the basis of false certificates of competence for driving a motor vehicle. They got these documents, these certificates, and they issued a driver's license. Thus, with the driver’s license, there is nothing wrong with itself; it was wrong in previous procedures. And clearly, because of these frauds, because of these false certificates, these driving licences will have to be revoked as soon as possible, removed from circulation. In what way? This is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, and they must ensure that administrative units receive appropriate instructions in order to legally repeal these driving licences or pronounce them null and void. I agree with you that it would be wrong if we now wait for the legality of criminal judgments and that only when the judgments are legally binding do we say, "Oh, now it is the basis for the renewal of the administrative procedure or for the expression of nullity." You have to do this first. It is necessary to scrutinise the ZUP – the Administrative Procedure Act – and see whether the current ZUP provides the basis for withdrawal, for repealing these permits or for adoption of a specific law. I think that's the first thing possible. However, this is the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space's task, as it is said. So much for that. Of course, the Ministry of Justice in that part about erasure. On the basis of these certificates, certain points have also been deleted and will now need to be entered back into criminal records. I will monitor this closely myself, especially with the police, and I agree to forward all the ZIP data across the way, so that, on the basis of these data, where the driver's licenses for which they are issued, they can go into the process of repealing or determining the invalidity of these driving licences. However, we will be so careful that we do not accidentally make any stupid legal error that would result in people retaining these driving permits.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much. In fact, the minister replied in part, saying what else was to be done, but I would like some additions from his side. First, let me start with this positive side. I think it is a good thing that a bunch of legislation that has been actively engaged in how to reduce the number of victims, people, has started to decrease dramatically in recent years. Of course, this is a good trend, and I agree that 115 victims are too many. But unfortunately, we have to work on this issue and reduce the possibility of causing such accidents, where people not only die, but also very seriously harm themselves. I heard from the minister what has been done so far. The police have done their part, so we have also received some very precise information from the police to the public, but I find it somewhat difficult to accept the claim that the Minister here used, that false certificates have been issued, that the driver's licenses are O.K. Yes, explicitly stated, the driver's licenses have been issued correctly and there is nothing wrong with them. They're all wrong. With a driver's license like that, everything's wrong. Its basis is in a false certificate, in a forged document. That's why I expect you, Minister, to do something about it, not just to observe. You mentioned two ministers, who are also from your party or from your quota, who are key to being able to handle this together with you, not just them, all three are likely to do something in this area as soon as possible. We can't wait. These investigations have been ongoing for months, these stories have been going on for months, and action must be taken here. Systemic legislation must be acted upon. If you have not now established that the law allows or prevents anything, it is high time to do so as soon as possible and to withdraw all these driving permits clearly, not to anyone who would do anything [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u134	Once again, let's be perfectly clear. I agree with you that these driver's licenses are all wrong because they were issued on the basis of false certificates, if I may have been embarrassed to say that there will be no mistake or that no one will draw my statement out of context. With these permits, it's very wrong. What I was about to say is that a mistake was not made at the time of the issue of this permit, because this officer in the administrative unit that issued the permit had with him certificates that he didn't know were fake. So, the administrative unit and the book itself, the driver's license in this case is only the end of this story, where irregularities have happened before, and the culprits are in the previous stages of this procedure. Yes, I agree with you that it is necessary to act here, but I do not want to interfere with the domain of two other ministries. The MNZ is responsible for the supervision of road safety, not the issue of driving licences. I can only help and advise my colleagues here, but I cannot interfere with their authority. In order to help, I am in agreement with the police, and here too, there was no need to give any specific direction, because the police themselves know this very well, gives all the necessary information, information to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, as well as to the Ministry of Justice, in order to be able to act there on these driving licences. Therefore, they have all the necessary information, which driver's licenses are that they can be revoked. I think we're completely in agreement here. Even in the fact that both departments have to do their work as soon as possible and that each day when these permits are in circulation, they are problematic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. You want a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u136	Otherwise, the Minister has given me a very nice answer, and I am glad that we have made it clear that there would be no possible misinterpretations, because it would be unnecessary. However, I think it would be good to have a broader debate on this subject, not only on the Minister's response, but on this subject at all, which can only be a good lever, that we have the answers to these questions to a broader debate. Why? Because it's been months since the police investigated these cases. At least in these few months, nothing public has happened to these permits. There's a feeling, even in people when you talk to journalists when they ask us in the hallways, some powerlessness of the country to do something about it. It's not like that. If the state doesn't have leverage to do something about it, it has to do it. And in these months, donkeys could have made some changes, even now in the administrative process, we are changing a law where we might include something. I think that such a debate would be positive, and my question went in a positive direction to see what we can do at this point. Such a discussion could move these things. I know that, unfortunately, you can no longer answer me, but when I have encouraged gentlemen to come from your party and I think you can talk to them on this line, but they do something and something moves in this area. It will be very difficult to explain to the public, God forbid that one of these drivers with this false driver’s license would cause an accident with severe consequences. Then it will be for all ministers who can be involved in this in any way, and we should do something about it, and then it will be very bad for all three. I really want this to go in this direction in good faith and this debate is being held, which might help to move it. Minister, I hope that this will not happen, given how these votes are taking place, and that you, with your influence and authority, will come to your colleagues in such a way that it will move as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 December, in the framework of the votes. The following question will be raised by Mr Daniel Krivec, the Minister without a portfolio responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world of Mrs Tini Komel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I ask the following questions from the distinguished Minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world. On 22 May this year, Mohorje company from Celovac addressed to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia an initiative to review the legality of the implementation of financial support to the indigenous Slovenian national community, in place of the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world in 2010–2013. The Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians, in place and around the world, has been responsible for the very wide range of education and education of Slovenian youth and the extensive publishing programme since 2010, which reduces funding from year to year. That's why I'm asking the Minister: On what basis are the funds for the operation of these institutions reduced if we know that the programmes and projects of Mohorjeva are implemented: the management of a private bilingual human school, the management of a student's home and shelter, the extensive publishing programme and thus the preservation of jobs in the Slovenian structure, which corresponds to all the objectives of the call for funds from the government office for Slovenians in place and around the world? I also ask this because in recent references to the budget debates we do not get any more information on how these funds are distributed to individual societies. If we look at the comparison between individual companies, only Mohor's companies in this case are greatly reduced and not to other companies. That is why I am asking the esteemed Minister for specific answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Tina Comel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Honourable Member, under the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders and the Regulation on the implementation of financial support for the maintenance and development of Slovenian identity outside the Republic of Slovenia, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians, in place and worldwide, publishes a public tender for tendering area A or financial support for the indigenous Slovenian national community in substitution and a call for tender for tender area B, i.e. financial support for Slovenians around the world. The subject of an individual call for proposals is the co-financing of regular operations and projects that meet the objectives and objectives of the call for proposals. Therefore, each competent minister shall designate a committee, i.e. the members of the expert committee, who shall carry out an expert review of the applications and shall evaluate them on the basis of the conditions and criteria resulting from the laws set out in the tendering documents, according to the available budgetary resources. The expert commission, appointed by the President of the Slovenian Government for Slovenians in place and around the world, is an inter-ministerial committee and is attended by a representative of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. On the basis of this assessment, i.e. the assessment of the role of the expert commission, a final review of the financial support shall be prepared. It should then be pointed out that since 2010, the whole Mohorje company has applied for specific areas of activity — Slomškov dom, Human School, Mohorje’s publication — and that in 2011 the umbrella organisations did not give a harmonised opinion on Mohorje’s company. They proposed €120,000 for 2012 and 2013. Here we must also point out that, despite the significant reduction in tender funds in 2012 and 2013, the funds for Mohorje society remained at the same level as in 2011. Last but not least, we stress that Mohor's company operates as a d. o. o., that is, a legal entity, and that its total annual budget is between €2 million and €3 million. So, our support, on the part of the Office, represents around 5% of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thanks for the answers. I think that some things have been answered, but, nevertheless, given the information we have obtained, there is some gap between previous funding and the funding that is in the current years. Indeed, between 2012 and 2013, there is no big change, but if we compare with other societies in Koroška, they are, I would say, not changing grants, but even increasing them. For example, the Slovenian Society in Celovac, the ABCČ Society, the Drava Society, the Vizer Society, is even increasing funds, and the Mohorje Society is downsizing the most dramatically in 2009, 2010 and later in 2011, 2012 and 2013 are somehow on the same level. When we also compare co-financing of youth homes, the Youth Home 2013 receives €171,000 from the Office, which is the 21% circus and the 58 000 Slomškov home. I understand that there are probably some rules, but, as I said, unfortunately Members, we no longer see in the budgetary debates of these data and those criteria, which I do not think is good. Therefore, such questions may also arise, yet they require a concrete answer and some explanation as to why such changes are taking place. So I'd like to ask for a possible supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thanks again. Yes, it is, as I mentioned earlier. Each minister, i.e. the responsible person at the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, appoints the members of the Commission, i.e. the expert committee, who carefully reads and reviews everything, so conducts an expert review of every role. What happened in 2009, 2010 as you mentioned, it is very difficult for me to now analyse for the previous years how the expert committee decided and why it decided. Also, what you are asking me, I must tell you that the decision has been taken by the previous expert commission and has also been adopted and confirmed and signed by my predecessor. It is true that when I came to this post, I signed the decisions, but I must also tell you that the decisions on my part have not been changed, so the funds have not been changed. Of course, every role must be analysed here, since it is probably also incomplete or does not meet certain criteria and conditions of the invitation to tender at that time. As I mentioned before, I don't think it's about somehow distinguishing and privileged some publications more than others. My data is that, like Vizer and Drava, as you mentioned, they received the same information as Mohor's publication in the last year – if we only analyze and break them down. Once again, Mohor's company acts as a legal entity, i.e. d. o. and the entire budget at the annual level is between €2 million and €3 million. We know exactly, we are talking about one serious financial crisis, and I think it is right that we support both.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Would you like some more procedural, Mr. Krivec? No, no, no. So we continue with Mr Franz Breznik, who will raise his question of the delegation to the Minister of Defence, Mr Roman Jakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! The Slovenian Army, more specifically, the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Army is 21. 11. In the framework of the signing of the annual plans for the cooperation of the Slovenian Armed Forces with companies acting in particular for the country, he signed an annual agreement for 2014 in which he committed himself to providing logistical and other support to important defence system organisations. Among these organisations is the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence, which is as a society acting in the public interest in the field of defence this year, 5. 11. In 2013, the Ministry addressed a request concerning veterans' uniforms of Slovenian territorial defence. First of all, these were the second or third category uniforms, a few years old uniforms of older years, designed primarily to awaken the memory of the Memorial of the first formation of the TO unit at the time of the 30th Development Group with the circus 500 members, which is in Kočevska Rijeka on 17 December 1990, a week before the plebiscite decision, made it clear to the Slovenians that they do not need to be afraid of anything, so that we can also protect the Slovenian decision for a better future, a single country. You did not give the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence any answer, as far as I know, I have not received it until today, so the association has not received it. In particular, they were surprised to hear you say to the media after this reply: "The Defence Minister says that the association, as its basic mission, stresses in particular the preservation of the genuine historical memory of events from Slovenian independence, the strengthening of patriotism and national consciousness," and in this context, it seems to me that the equipment was "problemically donated". That was your answer to the media. That's why I'm asking you the following questions. The Slovenian army has a lot of uniforms that are for write-offs, even destroyed or even donated to various societies, even paintball companies. The Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence, which acts as a society of public interest in the field of defence, which has addressed a request for veteran uniforms, you say you cannot donate these. I'm asking you: Why didn't you do it? What were the moves and why were you also violating military ethics in the case of an elderhood, subordination, when you somehow let yourself into the decision of the Chief of General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Mr Member, thank you for the question. First of all, let me stress what you announced in a written question that you wrote down that I had bullied the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence. Let me say that I disagree with your conclusion that this has happened. You have already told yourself how this association as a society acting in the public interest, both with the Ministry of Defence and with the Slovenian Army, has the same cooperation as all other societies. These societies, which operate in the public interest in the field of defence, are almost 30. At the same time, this company also has an annual plan with the General Staff of the Slovenian Army on cooperation, they signed this five-year contract just before I came to the Ministry, and it is okay. Of course, this signed contract does not provide companies with unlimited opportunities to obtain equipment and other support from the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, since this is, last but not least, regulated by the Regulation on the use of defence capacity in supporting state authorities in cooperation with local communities and also NGOs. The Association, as you can see, has indeed addressed a request to the General Staff in November to provide a uniform, and the General Staff of the Slovenian Army has left the decision to me. Also based on their reply or letter sent to the cabinet of the minister by Major General Bozič, it says: "Being aware that the Slovenian Army in the warehouses does not have military boots and the required number of winds of the older type, we cannot fully provide uniforms." But you know there was a request for 500 sets of uniforms, including hats and 560 pairs of military boots. As I did at the press conference – and here should also be properly said; it is true that I quoted what the association is, and I said that the association is not a veteran association, it is not a veteran association that we, together with officers, stopped giving equipment as a donation three years ago. Thus, three years ago, the last request was rejected by the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that due to the current financial situation, but now it is even larger, all material resources, and if they are of older origin, are still valuable to the Slovenian Army. Of course, there is also no reason to reflect the fact that, on the one hand, there was a lot of pressure on the Minister of Defence to give, in this style, and on the other hand, there was a lot of pressure to say that the association was very involved in the political situation in Slovenia and is politically and very close to one of the political parties and, of course, to dress such a group of people is quite problematic or unusual. Why did I say that? Because otherwise, all veterans and all veterans of the war for Slovenia could keep their uniforms while in debt. So, those who were on the force could have kept those uniforms. But if I followed the media correctly, I saw that the association was able to provide uniforms – otherwise I don't know which uniforms, and I don't know which people were uniformed at this celebration – so what was the wish of the organizer of this event itself 14. 12th in Kočevsky River, successful. And one more or not, I'm going to wait for the second part of the answer, and I'd like to tell you what the ministry has ensured for this 23rd anniversary of the regiment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Breznik?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u150	Yeah, sure. Thank you for your word. Look, Minister Jakič, the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence wanted, for the first time, your written answer, why you can't do this. And a second time. As you know, if you also looked at the media, you could find that the members of the association had to act in the same way as they did in 1990. They had to find out because they did not have support for the work of Slovenian politics. Like in 1990, when you were obstructing independence, if I just say again, 28. 3. 1991, "I don't think we need an army." That was your answer here, at a meeting in this big house. We don't need an army. I already told you at the hearing that I don't consider you Minister of Defense, but that it's actually a provocation. It is a provocation of this government or of this part of the policy, because it cannot be true that someone who obstructed this system was created in the most important decision of the Slovenian people that today is the Minister of Defence. This is clear and history has shown here. The other thing is that you didn't even show the good will to say, "Look, we have 50 old uniforms, let's lend them to you for that." You haven't even shown that good faith! So you bullied directly, you bullied directly, and now you're going to have a hard time explaining it, especially to someone like me. I spent more than fourteen years, among other things, except in the economy, at the Ministry. I was the head of logistics in one and the other barracks, I remember everything we donated to the rest of the societies and when we lent them – based on civil-military cooperation we also borrowed equipment and you could borrow at least 20 years old uniforms for this indigenous event, which was something that was historically important. You could have done it as a minister, and you didn't want to. That's bullying. You haven't shown any willingness to do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please give us a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u152	Once again, of course, I will not defend myself because I have worked in my history, if you go to reading magnetograms, you will see that in the National Assembly I have proposed an amendment concerning the Slovenian Army, namely, I wanted funds intended for horsemen in the Slovenian Army or the Territorial Defence, but to transfer to the students. This is my sin, as I objected to the budget or the Slovenian Army. Of course you won't find me on this. Go take a look and you'll see: all the important votes, even if you make your notes, you'll see that in all cases I was primarily in favour of independence. But once again, that's all I'm going to do, and I'm going back to why it's not about bullying. Because if I really wanted to or wanted to bully this association, then I would deny that the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff, participated in this event with the orchestra of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as you say. And last but not least, I had to approve here in writing that you could even use this salary in the Kočevska River because it still owns the Ministry of Defence. I had to approve this or give my consent in writing to organize the event. We even gave you the orchestra of the Slovenian Army to participate there. But I didn't want to give this association uniforms. And I'll tell you again why. For two reasons. The first reason is of a material nature. Thus, such uniforms are used as an iron reserve, as I was told in the Slovenian Army, of course, even for those who go to the field, they return and bring the washed uniform back. Secondly, I wanted to avoid the obvious that we were trying to uniform one of the associations that was not a veteran association. The Veteran Association knows who the Veterans' associations are. And we told those two biggest veteran associations three years ago that we would no longer give them the uniform. Therefore, in all the cooperation treaties and documents, it is said that we will provide the resources that we can. This is to participate in celebrations with the orchestra and with a certain part of logistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Beznik has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u154	Look, I actually have two procedural proposals. First time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u155	You can have one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u156	I can have more, but in the context of a debate with which the Rules of Procedure allow me to discuss, for the first time, not only my question but also my misleading and lying. The lie is that, for the first time, the Association for the Values of Slovenian Independence is a veteran and remaining association because it includes veterans as a section. And this association, the first association formed in the field of the Republic, is not really Apart from a veteran, there is also an association that talks about the fact that the most important event in Slovenia is due to other people who today do not have the status of veterans: journalists, different writers and everything else, from which this energy of Slovenian independence was generated. [[...]] This is unique. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u157	Don't argue. Procedural proposal, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u158	What I have proposed, President, is that at one of the following meetings: first, it appears exactly what I said at the beginning. First of all, he says it's a political association. Well, it's not a political association. Nor is the political association of the SDS party because the first president was Ivan Oman, who first organised as a party association in a separate state. That is exactly what you are saying in the media, and I ask that the debate take place in this context at one of the next meetings, because it is a matter of deception and it is a conscious lie. This is one of the most important decisions, colleague Jakič, which is one of your practices. One more time, 28. 3 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u159	Don't argue!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u160	Jakič Roman: "We don't need troops in my opinion, but when you talk about Territorial Defence, you talk about the Republic Secretariat for Home Affairs [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u161	Procedural proposal, Mr. Breznik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u162	And then you talk about national protection." [[...]] So, MSNZ, that is, the Manevre structure of national protection, which is clearly the predecessor of this Slovenian army, because the leadership TO collapsed when they took their district, because the leadership then joined the JLA, with which you were a great initiator, was created in the area of MSNZ. You were the one who said it was a paramilitary unit. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u163	Mr. Breznik, I remind you that you have a procedural proposal, an opportunity to put it [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u164	Yes, but the newly formed Territorial Defence, which had nothing to do with your Yugoslav Army, colleague Jaklič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u165	I ask for peace in the Hall Mr. Breznik, your procedural proposal [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u166	The new territorial defence, which was created directly from MSNZ and which defended Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u167	Mr. Beznik, I will take your word. Your procedural proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 17 December, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be posed by the mag. Majda Potrat, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! My question is related to the report of two groups of dissatisfied citizens and citizens. The Criminal Complaint Group and on behalf of the people who addressed a letter to the addresses of all Members and Members, in which there is also a public demand for the immediate termination of the lease agreement with the International Centre for the Promotion of Enterprises, with an ICPE shortcut at the location of Vienna 104 and Cardel Platform 1 in Ljubljana. Since the signatory or owner of more than 7,000 square metres of land in these two locations is the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, I am asking questions to you, Minister, and I am interested in: When and on what legal basis was the lease with John the Baptizer signed? For he manages this institution, called the International Centre for the Promotion of Businesses, which employs more than 7,000 square metres of land for a symbolic rent of EUR 1 per year. Do they state that the rental contract was concluded for rent at that amount? Can these premises be made available against the payment of rent for use by other users on the basis of this contract? In the letter there is a talk that these premises are leased for rent. Mr. Podobnik answers that the rent is used to maintain the premises, but How have these been defined in the contract? How will you manage the situation at the Ministry, and what are the plans with the International Centre for the Promotion of Business in the Future? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President and Madam Members. I must say that a lot of inaccuracies are online about this issue, and I will try to explain them as clearly as possible. The premises are the premises of the Republic of Slovenia, the former Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has been their manager since 2011 and since then. That's one. As regards this contract for one euro, it is a contract already concluded by another State, i.e. the SFRJ, and at that time the contract for one Yugoslav dinar was an appropriate compensation for the use of land, buildings and appropriate internal equipment. Then it followed, you know, success and everything about it. What you're asking me about signing a contract with Dr. Janez Sponik should be said a few things. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology did not conclude a contract with him, but it concluded a contract – 22. 1. In 2009, the International Centre for the Promotion of Businesses, represented by Stefan Bogdan Shale as Director-General, concluded a contract with Dr. Janez Spokonik or his International Institute for Sustainable Development, Spatial Planning and Environmental Studies. And that was the lease. It shall apply from 1 January 2018. Ten. In 2011, the Director-General of ICPE, Mr Štefan Bogdan Shalej, further signed an agreement on cooperation with the previously mentioned International Institute for Sustainable Development, Spatial Planning and Environmental Studies, represented by Dr. Janez Podobnik. Otherwise, I can say that the last agreement the Ministry has with the ICPE is the one from 12 July 2011, where the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is listed as a real estate manager, but, of course, in a slightly smaller amount of square meters, my data is 3 000 687.63 square metres. So much for the history of this case. As far as your direct question is concerned, I think I need to be very clear - no, it is not right that the premises that the Republic of Slovenia has leased ICPE are transferred to an additional sublet. I think we all know this isn't right, and it can't happen in the future. That is why, as soon as this initiative reached us, we approached the solution of the problem. I can tell you that, for example, between 28th and 30th October this year and early in November, the Office of Budgetary Control of the Republic of Slovenia reviewed the ICPE documentation. According to Apes, he found that he was in those premises, i.e. the premises where the Government and the ICPE entered into a lease agreement, 37 business entities, although the Ministry has only a contract and only with ICPE. On this basis, we have responded and prepared, including in accordance with the findings of this inspection, an annex to the contract between the Mišš and the ICPE, in the so-called C-paragraph 4. This gives ICPE the obligation to report monthly on premises not used for its own purposes. We have given them the hands and procedures for returning unnecessary premises and other content that are important for the management of the facility. In this way, we have prepared additions to the Treaty, and we have also determined that the ICPE must report monthly to the Ministry on the use of these premises in order to avoid this. The Budget Supervisory Office has given us a deadline, and that's 31. 12. 2013 and until then we will also sign an annex to this agreement, and we will inform the Government of the Republic of Slovenia about this earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I must say that what you have said, of course, departs from what we have been informed Members and Members of Parliament, to a good extent. I think the picture is different now. However, I would ask, because this letter was also intended for other authorities of control or persecution, to say: Do your procedures for your conduct possibly continue with these organs? All you talked about was inspection and budget control and in this regard. Would it be possible to determine at least roughly when an institution could possibly be created to link these development activities, from which the idea of ICPE also arose? Thank you for that part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u174	I must say that, as responsible, I am only informally informed that other procedures of other bodies are taking place in this regard. But you probably understand, given that it's just informal, that I can't comment on them in front of the National Assembly. However, what I would like to point out once again is that, in accordance with the recommendations of the inspection, we will make a new annex to the contract, which will close these "holes" which allow for further rents. The other thing you're asking is, I think, it's important for further development. This is a question of the functioning of the Interdepartmental Working Group, so that in those two pillars, namely, in the southern and northern parts of Bežigrad, we can give quite a few Slovenian organisations working on this, let's say to this conditional, developmental area, and then achieve some synergistic effects on other properties as well. Our task force is working intensively. We have prepared the first proposals for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia so that we will shortly take a message or a proposal to regulate these properties to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as it also seems to us that the existing premises can be used not only more cost-effectively but also more substantively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Dejan Židan, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u176	In the absence of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, I would like the Minister to answer my question orally at the next meeting. According to messages from forest owners and even after reporting to the media, the Institute of Forests has not been operating public forestry services for almost three weeks, that is to say, it does not carry out the renunciation of trees or the issuance of transporters. This is limited, or I would say that the failure of the public forestry service is ongoing. With this, the owners cannot generate income, and economic damage is also caused by the loss of wood supply to the wood industry, as in this December time the weather is extremely ideal for working in the forest and because of the failure to perform the forestry service is limited here. I'm talking about insufficient resources for the work of the forestry service. The forest union has already been alerted to a marked lack of resources. The ministers were also warned by the Forestry Directorate at the Ministry itself, but the Minister did not find a solution to where to find money to carry out this public forestry service, nor did he take appropriate other measures to make the work in this area smooth. Of course, I am also concerned about the budget next year, because there is not enough resources in the budget for next year. Thus, I raise a very clear question to Minister Židan: How and when will it provide financial resources for the public economic service of the Institute of Forests of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure that their work is smooth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Your desire for an oral response has been noted. The following question will be raised by Mrs Janja Najast, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Hello, Mr. Secretary! Dear Minister, we have recently been able to monitor reports of irregularities in the Diaška dom Celje in the media. We have read that you are thinking about ousting this home, and there should also be more vacancies for students who would like to stay in this home in the next school year. As secondary and higher education in Celje develops greatly, this information is a source of concern, as the abolition of vacancies in a student home is a disaster for the whole of secondary education in the region. That's why I'm interested in your answers to the following questions. First time. What kind of financial situation is the Diatric House of Celje? How much money has he received from the budget and how much does he have? Another time. Why should we opt for liquidation rather than a different kind of reorganisation, such as joining a high school? This could also keep the student’s activities at home and enable students who would like to stay in a student’s home to the future. Third time. If they're holding claims of liquidation, I'd like to know: What are you going to do with the students who are going to school in Cel? Will you put them in private, which will greatly undermine family budgets? You probably know that there are also socially weaker students in student homes who, by making such a decision, can be deprived of their basic right to education. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u180	Madam Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the contrary, I'll try to explain. One is the ending of a student’s home as a separate legal entity, and the other is that we maintain our activity and try to do so or try to do so. In fact, if you look at history – and I have to say that I was quite well aware of this, called we also have a working group that has identified the actual situation regarding the operation of this student’s home – I must say that there is one set of different, very different reasons that have led to the fact that he is in a financially insurmountable situation today. We have prepared an analysis not only from a financial point of view, but also from the point of view of entry, business, facilities, potential investments, market activities and public services. Where are the main findings? The main findings are that, on the one hand, there has been a decrease in entry into this student home under a measure that we know of: when it comes to ticket subsidies, the entry has decreased. On the other hand, we have relatively high maintenance costs, and on the third page, if you want, we have a decline in the volume of market activity of this particular student home. In addition to all of this, this student home has also exhausted a number of judicial disputes – I believe that you know what this is about – but it is necessary to establish now, as far as I know, the illegal conduct of the current director who resolved and dismissed the then President of the Council with the resulting action and the high amount of compensation. This amount was EUR 53 000 326. This happened in this particular student home. That is how we do – I think that what you are pledging for, that is to say, to maintain the activity that this activity of the student home, that is, to give overnight and other capacity plus programs in Celje remains because we are all aware of how important these capacities are for the Goals, but the question of continuing to maintain a separate legal entity. From here, however, options are open: either association, as you said, to high school or any of the other options. So I can only say, if I understand you correctly, that we share our concerns here and I must say that we are working on this as a matter of priority and very intensely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your answer. But I do have a few more questions about student homes or activities. Does he keep information that some of the students are to move to a student’s home in Kentucky, so that they too will have to drive to Celje? This will cost them additional transportation costs, while at the same time losing the primary function at the school site. I'm also curious: Are there still any changes to any of the student homes in Slovenia and for which there are quite a few very small ones? We are afraid that you want to destroy the network of student homes, because you have not yet presented any strategy for the development of these homes, which are often also a rescue plant for some students in these times of crisis. At the same time, I would like to request an additional written supplement or a written answer to the following question. Can you provide financial data on the operation of all student homes for the last 5 years, in particular with a focus on the period from 1 January 2013, when MOFAS was established in secondary schools? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you very much. At the same time, I would like to remind you that additional questions are not possible. So it is possible to complete the answer, but what you have now proposed is, in fact, something else, an additional question, and it is not necessary or necessary for the Minister to answer it in writing, as you wanted. Now I am giving the Minister the opportunity to respond to his previous reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you. I do not think there will be any problem that we will be able to give this information to the Members. And it's not so much about MOFAS, it's about changing the methodology of price calculation and that the price of postage is given to the student and this causes some of the student homes, you've just found out, big problems. But we're not going to be the government that did this. We know what those student homes are. In Tolmin there is probably one of these, then in Metlika or in the White Land, as far as I know, there is one more, and there are. But look, for the time being, all these student homes are being maintained by the program and the scale it was. It is true, however, that due to a smaller entry and something else, we will probably have to transform them organizationally, but this does not mean a capacity problem. But as for Šentjur, I must honestly say that I have not been informed of this, and I am happy to deliver an answer to you once in a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We continue with the next question raised by Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mr Karl Erjavac, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u186	Let me also say that I expect an oral response at the next meeting from the distinguished Minister in absentia. Serbia finally surrendered Slovenia to the building of the former Yugoslav Embassy in Rome, which belonged to Slovenia in accordance with the 2001 successful agreement. The Embassy stands at an elite location in Rome and, given the importance of this capital for Slovenia and the Slovenian minority, this location is extremely important, necessary and appropriate. This is also the view of good acquaintances and important members of the Slovenian minority in Italy, who are very familiar with the situation in Rome, who also warned me to check that you are saying that the Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is dealing with a catastrophic solution to sell the building in Rome. That's why I'm asking: Who or what circles are behind such pressures or thinking? If that is the case, then let me say that well-informed sources warn me that lobbying with a particularly corrupt background is working in this direction. Is it true that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is considering selling the building to Serbs, and to this end, it has also shriveled at the emptiness of the building's equipment? According to some information, it is included in this and for this financially influential Serbian capital and political lobby in Ljubljana. I also ask: Is it true that Slovenia from Serbia has not negotiated any compensation for a long delay in the extradition of the building, since this practice has always been respected and that non-transmissioner has had to pay the penalty? Then I ask: Did Slovenia reach in the pre-transmission agreement or negotiations to return all equipment, furniture, ladders to the building, or is this being replaced with money? It is quite clear that Slovenia needs a building in such a respectable location, which can also serve as a cultural and economic exhibition if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs tries to argue that the building is too large for Slovenia. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Your request for an oral response to the next meeting was noted. And the next question will be posed by a mag. Jana Jenko to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you. My question is addressed to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, concerning the implementation of the call for training. We all know that it is very difficult to train in Slovenia, especially for certain professions. Your ministry is six. 12. This year, the call for the employment of 51 trainees in the field of education and education was published without the possibility of extension. Let me mention only the fact that 264 volunteer traineeships were published in the spring of this year, and 688 candidates have applied, and then this issue is a matter of concern. The Ministry's invitation to tender differs from that of previous ones, with a focus on the knowledge achieved, or on the study success, and on those who have applied for previous tenders, but have not been successful. This time the criterion is unemployment by municipalities, which is the criterion for referring to a decision on areas with higher unemployment rates in the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. That's three years ago. However, in the second section of that Decision, there are even namely those municipalities which belong to those areas. Let me just say that for example, the Market in this Decision is not mentioned. Since 2010, a number of municipalities have also exceeded the minimum unemployment threshold of 10.6% and would thus be ranked on the priority list, reaching between 5 and 15 points. The Rules on the Implementation of Active Employment Policy Measures since 2010 provide in Article 7 for the Ministry of Labour to annually prepare an area with a higher unemployment rate. Then there's the anomaly that one condition is that the mentor is at least 58 years old. I don't know what that's for. Are the younger ones not qualified, qualified? This will be explained to me by Mr. Secretary, I hope. I'm also curious: How could the Ministry issue such a poorly prepared invitation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much for that question. I do not share with you the view that this is a poorly prepared invitation to tender for three reasons that I will tell you. As far as yours is concerned – that's what I'm going to say, because you didn't say it, but a ton of it, I'd like to say this. You know, traineeships aren't compulsory anymore. Training in the field of education and education is not compulsory. The examination for education and education may be submitted by any person with appropriate education for six months of relevant work experience in the field of education and education and, of course, this examination shall be carried out. However, this work experience is not necessary only and only to gain it through traineeships. They can be obtained in many other jobs within the framework of education and education. I know that there is often an impression in the public that these 51 traineeships are the only ones. Secondly, as far as yours is concerned, I have to say, criticism that we are using data from 2010. It seemed strange to me, too, but I went to look again and the last decision on this was actually from 2010. I went to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs once again, and you will see that the decision to set up higher unemployment areas in the Republic of Slovenia is the last in 2010. This is important to us because it is European funds. We have found these funds additionally, and if we are to drive this project in terms of audit traceability, then we need to have a formal decision. I know that unemployment is changing that we have new unemployment data every month, but the latest official unemployment data is the one that is unfortunately mentioned in this particular decision and refers to each municipality separately. From this point of view, this is done. But as for what you said about mentors over 58 years old, logic is very simple. It's not about the other mentors being expelled, no. But we want those over the age of 58 who, in our view, have, let's say, mentoring experience so that they can best transfer knowledge between generations. This is the idea of this 58th year. We want to activate them. We want to activate these people so that they have trainees to work with them and, of course, at the end of their careers, they can even be replaced by these trainees if they stay in contact or otherwise. A similar idea as we used to have in higher education when we had these so-called parallel settings. Older colleagues were approached by a younger colleague and worked together for a while to make this transfer of knowledge, skills and so on the most successful. This is what we want to explain with this work, to emphasize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Jana.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Well, as for this age limit over 58, I don't know. You know, in college at least a few years ago, it was like when I was studying for myself that the lecturers were really very old, who didn't step in with time, methodology and knowledge, and they were some of their interns or successors almost to their own, for example, 50 years or more, almost just interns or substitutes. Now I don't know if it's still happening, but I know that this has happened, that he's a professor -- because I'm saying, it's not said that if he's old enough to have the most power. Maybe we can just take you for comparison, say. You're not 58 years old. You probably have a lot of knowledge. Under this criterion, your educational centre, where you would work, would not have obtained an additional 15 points, which is very large – 30 and 15 more. I don't know if that's the right criteria. As far as conducting a professional examination is concerned. You all know that most of the time, those who have a professional exam are most likely to be employed. For an exam, at least after what I've read, it's got to be six months of work. How else are you gonna get it as a trainee? Hard! I mean, really hard. Let's just say that nicely. I certainly do not have this decision – see, the monthly report on the unemployment rate is published on the website and I do not know, this information is still not going together. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u194	Look, I'm telling you. If we want to comply with this criterion, this is not about unemployment "per se". It is a decision to establish areas with a higher unemployment rate in the Republic of Slovenia. And unfortunately, even unfortunately for me, I know the data is changing, but the last one is from 2010. We, you know, can't work with unofficial or fast-changing data, because then we can change data twice for the duration of calls. That's not gonna work. Not to make the impression that we've been setting the limit for 58 years, no. We have analysed data on the age of professional workers, on their competence to perform the work of mentor, and it has been found that this is the appropriate limit. All I'm saying is that this thing wasn't made up of, it wasn't done over the finger or anything, but there's some data in the back, and it was meant to be the one I tried to explain to you earlier. Thank you very much for these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. But now we're going to the next question that the mag should ask. Ivan Vogrin, but I don't see him in the hall. I therefore give the floor to Mr Borut Ambrožić, who will raise the question to the Minister of Justice, Dr Senk Plitčanič, and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! Even though there is no other minister, I think it is good that the issue of ratification of the so-called Istanbul Convention has been addressed to both ministers, as it concerns the two ministries in a substantive way. Allow me to explain in the beginning, and in the end, I also formulate only a question. In the first half of this year, the Slovenian police reported 783 domestic violence, with 721 female victims. Since 2000, 127 murders and attempted partner killings have also taken place in Slovenia during the 11-year period, with over 72% of female victims. These statistics speak of how, even though equality has been sang in many cases over the past decades, at least in the case of violence, the Republic of Slovenia has probably also signed the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against violence against women, which is a legally binding act that regulates the issue of violence against women in a comprehensive manner. At the same time, Slovenia has not yet ratified this Convention, which has been named the Istanbul Convention, even though it has been one of the initiators in its preparation. For example, it has been ratified by Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Portugal, Turkey and our immediate neighbours Italy and Austria. Let's see what the concept of ratification even means. It could simply be said that it is the consent of the State, because in order for the Convention to enter into force, the condition of ratification, in this particular case, by 10 signatories, of which at least 8 are members of the Council of Europe. With international conventions, countries agree on uniform rules and unification can only be effective if a large number of countries ratify the Convention. Such ratification is the last and decisive step in the process. On the export window website, we can also read below this category: "Sometimes we also experience a surprise when Parliament does not vote or impose reservations that reduce the applicability of the Convention." The PIC Non-Governmental Organisations' Legal Information Centre considers that the amendment to the rules required by the said Convention should not constitute a difficult task for the State, so I ask the Minister of Justice and at the same time the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What are the reasons why the Republic of Slovenia has not yet ratified the so-called Istanbul Convention, the Council of Europe Convention on Violence against Women, even though it was one of the initiators in its preparation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Here you are, Minister Dr. Senko Plitchanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u198	Madam President, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr. Ambrožich! On this issue, I will be able to cover this part, which I am covering, in my answer. In fact, it is a convention in which we have worked together as initiators ourselves, but the final text of the Convention is such that a number of consultations are still required with the various stakeholders with whom our ministry usually consults when it prepares a ratification or some legal provision. Here I am referring to the judiciary, the other stakeholders in the judiciary, the academic profession and so on. And the only reason that the Convention has not yet been ratified is because in these consultations we are looking for a way to incorporate the text of the Convention as much as possible into Slovenian law. It is necessary to know that virtually the entire content of the Convention is already covered by Slovenian law or, for example, some provisions of Slovenian law are even stricter than the requirements of the Convention. Thus, the co-workers at the Ministry found themselves in some minor embarrassment that the convention, where we were really the initiators, is then the final text as it is, and most of which is already established in Slovenian law, is now somehow ratified and transposed into Slovenian law. There are therefore a few more of these consultations. We will hold these consultations and then propose appropriate ratifications.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you for the correct explanation, Mr. Secretary-General. But it is true that, on purpose, I am asking this question for a second time, and I think it is six months or more ago when I put it to the Foreign Minister, even then to Mr Erjavac, but until today the matter has not moved. That is why I appeal, not as an additional question, but as an appeal to speed things up, because we have also been alerted to this open question by all Members with a letter from the Slovenian Association fighting violence against women in Slovenia, and in this regard my question is also addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary wants to comment? [[No, no, ……]] We continue with the next question put by Mrs Janja Nazast to the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel, who is excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you very much again for your word. I refer the following question to the Minister of Infrastructure and Space. The third development axis is one of the key development projects of the Savinja-Shales region as well as of the whole of Slovenia, for which the mayors of the region and the directors of the Chambers of Commerce of Slovenia have been taking over for a decade. In addition to the third development axis route in the northern part of the Velenje–Slovenia motorway, Gradec has been a not too simple solution to the spatial plan for some time now, and with continued delay, more consistent regional development and openness of the valley are increasingly at risk. The placement of the route into the premises took place from 2005 and 2006. In September late 2012, the Ministry, led by Zvonka Černač, prepared a full report on activities in the preparation of individual State Spatial Plans, based on a Government Decision, and sent it to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption. For two sections of the fast road, the Government has already adopted state spatial plans and for the remaining sections, as representative of the Upper Savinja Valley, I support the installation of the Šentrupert-Velje route, which will be professionally justified, cost-effective and will allow implementation as soon as possible. That's why I want to know: How are the activities related to the construction of the third development axis taking place? I ask Minister Omerzel to answer the question at the next meeting in the form of an oral reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you so much for asking. This proposal of yours will also be taken into account. We continue with the next question raised by Mr Andrej Chuš, Minister of Finance, Dr Uros Chufer, who is also excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. I asked the Minister of Finance the following question: What will the state do to finally bring about economic growth and to enable the economy to employ young people as a result? At the same time, I wonder: When will our loving country finally end its hopeless debt policy at the expense of young people and future generations in our country? I have a feeling that the government of Alenka Bratušek is acting as a butcher of the Slovenian economy, as it has not yet taken or introduced any positive action for our economy. On the other hand, unfortunately, these negative measures are huge, and I would not like to mention them now, because they could be listed for quite a long time, but we all probably felt a VAT rise, the property tax has been adopted, they are more expensive, and another set of decisions and a move has been voted here by the ruling coalition, which will burden the economy further. I believe that it is the economy that will be able to hire and save some young people to stay in our country. If it does not employ the economy and entrepreneurship, then I do not know where the young people will be looking for employment in our country in the future. We currently have, we can say, 30,000 job seekers, 30,000 unemployed young people on the market. There are no jobs for young people and, on the other hand, we impose additional burdens on them by each new government or state. Until last week, young or every newborn was in charge of 11,000 euros when he was born, I do not want to count at all where he will be at the end of this year and what it will be like in the future, when there will be an additional debt or in the plan of this government. On 24 May 2013, we adopted a golden fiscal rule here in the National Assembly, more than two-thirds voted in favour, and it also states in Article 2 of the Golden Fiscal Rule, which we have adopted, within 6 months of the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution, the law on the Golden Fiscal Rule. If we look at the calendar where we are today, we could find that we are one month behind schedule today, and the Minister of Finance has not mentioned a single golden fiscal rule to date. That's why I want to know: When will the next procedures in the process of adopting the Golden Fiscal Rule come about? What's more, I'll ask the Minister next time, and I'd like to have the answer in oral form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Of course, we will respect your wishes. The next question will be raised by Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Minister of Justice, Dr Senk Plitčanič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister! I have already addressed to you in writing in August a question concerning the provision of spatial conditions for the functioning of the State Prosecutor's Office, to which you have very comprehensively answered me, to all my questions raised, but from this question of yours came some other things, and even today I wish to have some answers from you through this oral question. In fact, at the point where the rental of premises for which the lessee is a person of private law, 5 state prosecutors operate – this is what comes out of your answer. These contracts have been concluded with them, for example for the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana, with an indefinite contract of three months' notice for renting 3 thousand 104 square metres, of which the monthly rent is EUR 35 000 885.94. The following is, for example, the District State Prosecutor's Office in Celje, which has a contract with Maximilian in a total monthly amount of EUR 13 000 510 for renting a thousand 326 square metres and some other prosecutions, both in Cyprus and in the New City. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Do you find these rental costs for the functioning of these state prosecutions overriding? What will you do to reduce these rental costs? At the same time, I'm curious: Are these legal persons who own these premises likely to be subject to portental, criminal, or judicial proceedings, and how might this affect these proceedings? I would also like to know – recently passed the Real Estate Tax Act: How are arrangements made for who will bear these property tax costs, or will appropriate annexes be concluded? Might it not be necessary to reexamine this treaty, to find more appropriate solutions? In fact, if I look for the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana, this company or company will get a total of EUR 20 million for five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u208	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, Madam Ramshak! In two parts, I'll answer your question. First, let me say that the cost of renting the premises in which the State Prosecutor's Office operates will be taken over by the Ministry I run from 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Until then and all this time since the beginning of this mandate, these costs have been settled by the Ministry of the Interior because this transfer has not yet been carried out, i.e. the transfer of powers related to the prosecution from the Ministry of the Interior back to the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of the Interior has started and negotiated with those tenants of the premises in which the state prosecutors, as well as everyone else, have reached a common savings when it comes to the business spaces in which the state prosecutors, 74,000, and so on, EUR. Otherwise, the rent costs for the prosecutor's business premises were, after these negotiations, 802 000 in 2013, and something else — I will not now continue to say all the numbers — EUR per year. That's the real situation. And then there's one. 1. 2014 when the ministry I run takes over again, this will still be the case. At the same time, let me say that the ministry I run is generally responsible for the management, management and management of property owned by the State, which includes, in particular, business premises as well as holiday facilities. Here we have great ambitions, great plans, what to do with these properties. So, the main objective is to get into a situation where the state would no longer pay rents and leasings and have all the premises in which the state authorities operate, from the judiciary, the prosecution, the judiciary to everyone else, in its own possession. This is probably a more medium-term and long-term goal. We will do all we can to reach it as soon as possible — at least in the part as we can. However, when it comes specifically to the premises of the judicial authorities, the courts and the prosecutions, there is a related project of a new judicial building in which the prosecutions should also have their seat, which we have moved to some extent further from the beginning of this mandate, but I am particularly keen to go now in the coming year. I am so sure that, when it comes to the premises in which the state prosecutors operate, it will move very quickly or change the situation in the sense that we will no longer pay rent, at least for the vast majority of the places in which they are today – I am speaking of Ljubljana. This is about the current situation and what we intend to do to reduce these costs. Let me add this, all the projects I'm talking about are projects for which countries will not, will not, and will not, because it does not, give anything out of the budget, but we are looking for private partners and we are trying to find some form of public-private partner where a private partner would finance it. First, we get to the building, we get to the property, the state doesn't cost anything, or at least it doesn't cost it right away. The final recovery, the final balance of such a ratio, should be more favourable for a country such as the current lease or leasing of the relationship. This is the goal, and this is what we are driving when it comes to a judicial building where the courts are supposed to have their seat and the state prosecutor's office from Ljubljana, or else I would like to move faster, but we have already done something in these few months. On the other hand, I must say that I do not understand very well when you ask whether they are brought against these private persons who are lenders, if I understand correctly, Mrs Ramšak, landlords, if any predictive, criminal or other judicial proceedings are initiated [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to complete the answer or [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u210	I'm sorry. I understood you correctly then related to renting — with anything. We don't have that information. The colleagues who helped me prepare an answer to this question of yours here point out that as tenants we do not check whether they are in any criminal proceedings, but we check if they are owners or not, or if other things are fine, as they must be, in order to conclude such a relationship. I'm sorry. I forgot to say that. When you're wondering how it's going to be with the tax and who's going to pay this property tax. We plan at a time when it will be completely clear when this record, when GURS, the Geodetic Administration of RS will have a completely clear picture of the properties in general and also those owned by the State and the property tax, then we will go back to the revision, to negotiate again on all these leases and other relationships with all of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Minister. I must say, I am partly satisfied with your answers. Perhaps a broader explanation is not possible when it comes to oral matters. My question as to whether criminal or judicial proceedings have been initiated or any pre-trial proceedings have been initiated relates to those legal persons who are not bound by these leases. The question is, some of the indications of people who also appear in my office are that things are supposed to be held in drawers for certain persons. That was my question, this part of my question. However, I would suggest that we actually examine whether the State owns the relevant property. If I just look for Celie. In Cel, Dars has a building that's falling apart. I think it would be very wise for the state's attorney to buy this building and arrange the building, but I think it would come in a lot cheaper than we are now paying for renting or leasing this contract, rents. If we look, in 10 years, the end of the contract is 23. Seven. 2012, that's 20 million. I think for 20 million we can build some kind of hospital, equip it. This is such a cost for a country that should not have been afforded in these critical times. Let's take a look at the D.A.'s building. As I may have said before, for five years it amounts to EUR 20 million. I don't think we're such a rich country, so we can throw money at taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u214	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mrs Ramshak! I completely agree with everything you've said in this last part. However, I must say that this area, this jurisdiction, is one of many, where nothing has been done in the past and I am doing what I can. I agree, however, that there are still a lot of situations where we have some properties that are empty and somewhere else we pay rent. You can trust me that as far as possible, I've been trying to do this for months. It is true, however, that I have personally engaged myself more in this time of day in other projects, in insolvent reform, in judicial reform and so on, and I have run out of time to lead these things on in person. But I intend to do this now in January because it has to, otherwise it won't work. But that's the situation. Besides, I don't have a habit and I just don't work so hard to blame others now, but let me tell you what the real situation is. The reality is that the management and management of state property has been in very poor condition all these years, and this is the case. It should be quick now, but it's just going well. We got what we got. I'm going to try my best to make this right as soon as possible and that the situations you're talking about would no longer exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mrs Ramshak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Yes, I have a procedural proposal. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would suggest that a broader debate be held – not because I would not be satisfied with the Minister's replies! I think that he has been very correct in these answers, but as you do, I note that we still have reserves in this area of dealing with the real property of the country and that in these difficult times this is one topic that deserves more attention. That is why I would propose this procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. It will be decided tomorrow, 17 December, in the framework of the votes. Since I do not see Master Ivan Vogrin in the Chamber, I should have the following question, I would like to give the floor to Master Maja Potrat, who will ask his question to the Minister of Justice Dr. Senko Plitchanič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! It is clear to me that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for the ratification of international treaties, but given that I am not in the position for the first time to raise an oral question concerning the ratification of this Convention and that you have already received it today, I have deliberately focused on you because one of the answers indicated that reservations to the ratification of this Convention actually have been made by the Ministry of Justice. To this, I must say, I am quite surprised that I do not know what is meant by this Convention to be such that it is necessary to examine whether our legal acts are really so laid down that we can ratify the Convention. We have already signed it, while some countries have ratified the Convention, and it seems to me that at the end of a very resounding campaign against violence from 25 November to 10 December, in which all of us, who have ever faced violence against women and domestic violence in any way, have determined how Slovenia, after years of progress in the preparation of legal frameworks and improved opportunities for action, when domestic violence is in place, sees the decline of these efforts. I see one of these options for withdrawing from the Penal Code a criminal provision and for more or less women's courts to refer to civil actions. However, for civil suits, it is necessary to have a lawyer, of course, to have money not to mention these things, that we have even been warned that some judges treat domestic violence as a scourge of public order and peace under the Law on Public Order and Peace and consider it a family dispute. Although I don't know how violence can be considered a family dispute, especially if a woman has to seek help in a hospital, not to say anything else, how can such a violent man imagine reconciliation? I really want to know: Where does the Ministry of Justice have reservations that it is necessary to look at what makes it impossible to ratify the provisions of our legislation of this Convention? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Dr. Shadow Plitzenic, you have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished colleague of the Minister and distinguished Mrs Potrat! In fact, I can only say the same thing again as I already said to Mr Ambrožić. We do not have any specific reservations at the Ministry in this sense to oppose the individual provisions of the Convention. It is true, however, that it is in this engagement, in this consideration of how this convention, as it is now, is incorporated into Slovenian law, that the co-workers have encountered a number of problems precisely because certain things in Slovenian law are already regulated, even more stringent than the convention. Here there remains some embarrassment, what to do now, how to ratify, is to incorporate into Slovenian law, and this is more stringent with regard to individual issues. That is why the colleagues also decided on the basis of my orientations to include all those who know the most about these issues in Slovenia, in addition to the co-workers at the Ministry themselves, these are various judicial stakeholders, the judiciary, the prosecution and so on, and academic professions in all three legal faculties, and these discussions are simply now taking place. I'm sure they'll find the right solutions and then ratify the convention. As to what you have also said, the women who are subjected to violence committed by men and others are in a worse position because of the lack of the possibility of prosecution that you have talked about – we are also aware of this at the Ministry of Justice and I think that they will find a suitable solution to this as part of these coordinations related to the ratification of the Convention. We know that in practice this is so and because we consider — or at least I as Minister — violence against children and women as one of the most discarded acts and thus one of the main priorities when it comes to the powers I have, and these are legislative powers, so that I will make sure that maximum attention is paid to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Majda Potrat, to supplement your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you. In the Family Code, there were also speeches about these things, as well as in the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, we find things that the Convention deals with, for example, how to deal with a child who is witnessing domestic violence. There are prisons, we have safe houses, there are many things, but I wonder if there is anything wrong with this – although Article 33 of the Convention says about psychological violence, and this is probably a bad translation – but you can see that we have already thrown this out of the law: "The Contracting Parties are taking the necessary legislative or other measures to ensure that intentional behaviour, which by force or threat seriously affects the psychological integrity of the person, is defined as a criminal offence." Last year we changed this legislation a little bit. Or, for example, Article 48 prohibits compulsory alternative dispute resolution or punishment procedures. Violence against a woman is such a specific criminal offence that it also requires special treatment and meditation to believe in the fact that you have a mentally broken person on one hand because he is a victim of violence and, on the other hand, a perpetrator of violence is hard to believe. And you see, Article 48 is just talking about the prohibition of compulsory alternative dispute resolution or sentencing procedures. And there are many things in this convention that would only strengthen if we ratified it, our general commitment to zero tolerance for violence. I'd really like to hear from you: How long do you expect the Justice Department to be able to figure these things out? It is a violation of human rights and it is most often a violation of fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you, Madam Vice President! Dear Mrs. Potrat! I can't tell you the time dimensions right now, in any case very quickly. But I completely agree with what you've said. My colleagues are also aware that there is a lot of good in the Convention, but the problems are of a legal and technical nature in a way that I have described earlier how some of the less legal formulations in this Convention will now be made to drink water if I can also use this word link to comply with some legal logic, especially with the applicable Slovenian law, or that at least now it would not be necessary to put it on the head, in order to incorporate one of the things in the Convention into Slovenian law. I am confident that, as soon as possible, the co-workers will carry out these coordinations. We are all aware that this is a very important issue, it is also a specific issue, and, as it is said, I will also supervise and ensure that this coordination process is done as quickly as possible and that solutions will also be made to facilitate the prosecution and sanctioning of those who commit such crimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For the final question of the matter, I give the floor to Borut Ambrožić, who will question the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting to all present, including the minister who joined us! I can say that this is somehow a "copy-pasta" question of the delegation, which I have already asked the minister a relatively short time ago, which relates to social responsibility. I repeat the question, however, because in the meantime, we can say, within ten days of that, there was also an interesting forum that took place at the initiative of the Foreign Ministry. For him, for example, a layman wouldn't even think he was relatively responsible for the issue of social responsibility, but he has been identified as one of the important elements of international relations that have begun to develop in Europe, we can say, since 2001, with the creation of a so-called Green Paper that defines corporate social responsibility. In this context, there was also a debate at the forum, as was said by the foreign ministry in cooperation with the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce and where representatives of the Ministry, as well as all other relevant stakeholders, agreed that the need to define or, in view of the recommendations - not on the basis of the requirements, I stress once again, on the recommendations of the European Union - to establish or write a national strategy on social responsibility, which could be a broader framework, such as, say, a desire for national human rights strategies or, say, the rights of older people and the like that is needed today. I would not repeat the definition of social responsibility because I have already asked it in a similar question. I therefore ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: Does the Ministry have a plan for 2014 on a national social responsibility strategy? At least: Will the National Interdepartmental Working Group for the Development of Social Responsibility be reinvigorated? This forum also expressed the belief that it is imperative that an authorised person be appointed at each ministry to deal intensively with this issue in the preparation of the desired national strategy. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u228	In view of the question I have already been asked, I believe that the answer will probably be quite similar in May or June. You are probably asking a question about the preparation of the strategy for 2014 and not for 2013. I would like to say once again very clearly that we are monitoring the social responsibility situation at the Ministry only from the point of view of employment and social entrepreneurship and that we are by no means national coordinators for this area. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has never entrusted the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities with the preparation of any national strategy, because this is a substantive document that goes beyond the work of our Ministry and interferes with the work of all other departments. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, due to the social responsibility aspect as the tools of social dialogue, was the Ministry that attended the European Union's social responsibility meetings with the European Commission. The working group was originally, organised by the Directorate-General for Employment because of the emphasis on social dialogue, and for several years it has shared its organisational responsibility with the Directorate-General for Entrepreneurship at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology because of the stronger emphasis on entrepreneurial content. You are talking about corporate social responsibility, and this is probably much more related to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Until the previous term of office, at the initiative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, there was also an interdepartmental working group for corporate social responsibility. Since the beginning of its membership in the OECD and thus the obligation for the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to operate the OECD national contact point for the implementation of the guidelines for international companies to be lost in importance and to cease to exist definitively during the review and termination of the various working bodies of the government in the previous mandate. The national strategy referred to by you has the basis in the Commission Communication on the renewed EU strategy 2011-2014 for corporate social responsibility adopted in October 2011. The Communication is not legally binding and it is also clear from the content that the Commission wishes to invite Member States to develop or revise plans or national lists of priority activities to promote social responsibility. There is no way, therefore, that this is a national strategy. It is important that social responsibility as a tool for the development of the Slovenian economy is clearly defined in the Slovenian industrial policy, in the SIP for which implementation is again entrusted by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and this strategy was adopted in February 2013. As the MGRT prepares the implementing measures of this strategic document, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities will certainly be involved. In addition, the document refers not only to the content of the OECD guidelines for multinational companies but also to the guidelines of the United Nations — what you mentioned, the UN Global Compact. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for this area and includes the area of human rights in the economy in a broader sense, with which the OECD guidelines have recently been upgraded. There is also a civil initiative under the Equiliba framework, which is preparing a draft priority to be implemented by Slovenia in the area of social responsibility. We do not have information on the stage of the preparation of this document, but we anticipate that when they need us, they will ask us and include us in the preparation of this document. I would point out, however, that according to our understanding, social responsibility mainly involves voluntary responsible conduct by companies that go beyond legislative requirements. If we are going to regulate and regulate everything in our country, including social responsibility, then I don't know where we're going. I therefore believe that the approach based on the practice and direction of economic operators is the only right approach to any action and to promote social responsibility. This is a matter of social responsibility, probably if we compare it with anyone else, especially for the so-called bottom-up approach. Of course, it is not possible to impose any binding treatment or regulation of socially responsible conduct. We, in the area of social entrepreneurship, which is part of socially responsible behaviour, certainly with our own, both the strategy and the measures that we coordinate with other ministries, are trying to achieve maximum, in particular by promoting social entrepreneurship and also by allowing the development of social entrepreneurship. But when we talk about social responsibility, you have to address this issue if you are going to be the third time, a minister responsible for economic development, because it is corporate social responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much for your answer. Here you go, Mr. Ambrožič, you have a wish to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thanks for the answer. The minister basically gave me relatively related answers for the first time. Obviously, we do not understand in many ways, but especially that there is no more talk than in 2001 about the social responsibility of companies as such, but about the social responsibility of the organisation or body, which in our case is also represented by the Republic of Slovenia. That is why my first and second questions and possibly third questions – unfortunately I cannot ask it to the Government or the President of the Government, because the procedural provisions of this as an unrelated Member make it impossible for me to do so, but I am referring it to the relatively most related Ministry of Resources, as I understand it, which could somehow sum up this staff of social responsibility, if you wish, as a matter of fact, to any ministry in some way, to determine, in agreement with the Government, an authorised person who would eventually draw up a comprehensive review of the functioning of the organisation, in this case a country involving such employees, a narrower and wider community, a natural environment and thus also the identification of possible belts in the future functioning of the country. This is just a summary of, say, one of the many definitions of understanding social responsibility as such. Personally, I see no reason why the government or the ministries, or the ministries, are so seditious of a record, as they say, not of a marriage, but of a strategic record of an area conquered by many other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u232	Perhaps I would only point out once again that, in view of your view of the competence of individual departments, this could be the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. However, given the definition or definition of individual tasks of individual departments, the issue of corporate social responsibility when you ask this question is much more within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology than the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. As I have stated, the OECD's contact point for these issues is the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. So it's not about getting my powers in a particular area or not, it's about wanting to do that, but it's also a little bit of trying to divide things where they belong most. However, I certainly believe that the country can be, above all, a coordinator here, but that there must be a real initiative from below, so that we will certainly be supporting the initiative that will come from civil society, as I mentioned by Equiliba. If any cooperation is necessary, we will cooperate. Therefore, if you can at least ask me and my colleague, who will be responsible for the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in the third time when you ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-16-SDZ6-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We have thus come to the end of the questions sent. I thank the ministers, or all the ministers and ministers who have answered the questions today, very much. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on 17 December 2013, when the National Assembly will also decide on the proposed decisions as part of the vote. I am adjourning the 20th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you all for insisting on us. Good luck.
