ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 39th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Maja Dimitrovski, Mrs Iva Dimic, mag. Melita Župevc, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Mr Michael Prevc and Mr Marijan Pojbič. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 18 June 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We are moving on to a decision on the agenda and please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the agreement to suspend the activities of the Republic of Slovenia, the capital companies of the latent and invalidity insurance, the D.D., the Slovenian compensation companies, the D.D., the Blue Insurance companies, the D.D., the D.D., the World and Governance Companies, the D. O.O., and the special companies for business counciling, the D.D. D. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Assembly by the Government on the basis of Article 38, paragraph 10, 11 and 12, of the Slovenian State Holding Act. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Uros Chufer, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your attention. Before you is the first privatisation package, which is a pebble in the mosaic of the entire economic policy we have drawn up and which is also explained in the national development programme and the stability programme. We see that the business model of Slovenia, as it is now, does not work. Based on large amounts of credit, cross ownership and reflected in the relatively poor quality of corporate governance. The crisis in which we have been in the last five years has shown all the weaknesses, vulnerability and insufferability of such a model. We have therefore prepared or are preparing additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which will lead towards improving corporate governance and a comprehensive strategy and classification of investments. One will be ready before summer and the other after summer, in which we will also touch on corporate governance and privatisation, which are strongly interlinked, because more than we have one and better than we have corporate governance, is a smaller need for another. Given that we have this task ahead of us and the need to sell certain things to move them to the private sector, we have decided to do so in a relatively pragmatic way. That is why we have put into phase one a package of 15 companies, which is made up of a relatively heterogeneous group of companies and at which we will try to achieve the first steps in this area. In the area of privatisation, I would say that Slovenia has recently been relatively non-creditable, since we have done this several times, and we have talked about it many times, and only rarely has a matter come to an end. If we want to do this as qualityly as possible and maximize the price, it is important that we reduce non-creditability and proceed with the procedure transparently, professionally and with a great deal of professionalism. We have decided to proceed with this procedure with maximum transparency, as I have already mentioned, and professionally. We will try to establish a control mechanism that will make it impossible and reduce the possibility of various abuses as little as possible. We expect them to be able to do this relatively well. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister, for further explanation of the proposal for the decision. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 59th urgent session, on 14. 6. 2013 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a decision on the consent to alienate the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Society of Pension and Disabled Insurance, d. d., the Slovenian Compensation Society, d. d., the Modre Insurance Office, d.d., DSU, the consultancy and management company, d. o.o., and the Special Companies for Business Consulting, d.d. submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. We have not received any comments from the Legal and Legislative Service. The meetings were attended by representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Kad, Court, Blue Insurance, DSU, Special Company for Business Consulting and Legal and Legal Service. An introductory supplementary explanation to the proposal for a decision was given by the Minister of Finance. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further stated that the service submitted did not have any comments. In the debate, members of the Committee expressed the following concerns, namely the concept of sales itself and the impreciseness of business sales, because the criteria under which companies are being sold and who will lead the sales processes are not known. They also asked how the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Court of Auditors would be involved in the sale process. They also expressed expectations about the early submission of the classification and guidelines to clearly identify which investments are strategic for Slovenia. They considered it necessary to limit the functioning of policy in the economy, as policy reduces the price of sales and reduces the credibility of the country in the sale of businesses. They have estimated that so far there have been no legal rules on public investment management and that management has been dispersed and very poor. Several Members had concerns about the possible conflict of interest in the sale of individual companies, since they own shares in these companies. In response, the Minister said that the Government is planning a new strategy in the autumn, as it takes some time to transfer claims and assess values. He said that the objective was transparent and successful sales. He also mentioned, as an option, the possible award of long-term concessions. Regarding sales and procedures, he said that the external and our experts and perhaps the supervisory commission would be involved. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the proposal for a decision and adopted it. As no amendments, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly have been adopted to the proposal for a decision on the consent to alienate the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance, d.d., the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., the Blue Insurance Offices, d.d., DSU, the consultancy and management companies, d.o.o., and the Special Companies for Enterprise Consulting, d.d., EPA 1193-VI are adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u5	Thank you, too, for presenting the Committee's report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u6	President, thank you very much. Minister, respect and respect! Today we have a decision on the consent of the National Assembly to sell 15 companies in direct and direct state ownership. Social Democrats want and expect the document to be more than mere consensus, and also to ensure that the practice of not the most successful management story with Slovenian state assets ends and that the Slovenian economy, especially workers and workers, will have a better future. Whether we want it or not, it must be acknowledged that in small-scale government, a pile of harmful coatings has been accumulated since the period of independence. Political recruitment, the fight for prestige and non-transparency were largely in favour of today’s decision-making. We have a number of cases of extremely bad practices where the state in its machete holding has waived the common assets in favour of exploiting individual elites, who have been able to exploit their privileges in close proximity to this or those political options. All of this led to the so-called tycunization, which during the conjuncture enjoyed the fruits of the quickly acquired property. Today, at the time of the crisis, it remains on piles of exhausted and hustling businesses, which are plagued by large debts. Thus, we must make a decision at a time when we are not favored and which requires us to seriously consider where the country, as the owner, has failed to pass the exam. We missed the opportunity, my dears, to take a closer look at what happened to state property for at least 20 years and simply put decisions in the category of good or bad. The truth is probably somewhere in between, and we have always warned the Social Democrats that an optimum way should be found to determine, based on the assessment of possible arguments, which companies have a chance to develop under national tactics. We are confident that this appropriate governance strategy would also show. We want to be able to confirm this conclusion with a calmer hand today, but bad economic forecasts have not left us indifferent. That is why we have decided that both for the economic and political stability of the country, it is better to overcome the blockade at which Slovenia is at this point and move forward. Before that, however, questions need to be answered as to why we should sell. We have to be honest here and pour ourselves some clean wine. We are forced to sell by difficult economic conditions and an unenviable public financial situation. In circumstances where it is very difficult for the State to repay under favourable conditions and where the policy of excessive taxation may be very questionable, it is probably right to decide on partial divestment of state property. Otherwise, they would be very likely forced to interfere in a grave way with the social state, which, respectable to us, can never be acceptable to the Social Democrats. Social Democrats are therefore seeing this sale in particular as a guarantee, at least to preserve the current level of social rights, quality public education and public health. That this will not be a mistake, as legitimate, we also accept different concerns about this sales process, both the time of sale and the choice of companies, but point out that it is necessary at this point to assess things realistically and objectively and to make a decision based mainly on a sound and rational assessment, not perhaps on the basis of feelings or even populism. For this reason, it is not possible that at the beginning of the process of selling state shares in 15 companies we wanted to obtain more detailed explanations from the proposer, the Ministry of Finance, on the one hand on the substantive reasons for the selection of these companies and, on the other hand, to make it clear that all the proceedings in the sale would be conducted in a transparent manner. We have also received assurances from the proposer that the sale process will pursue two key objectives set by the Social Democrats as a fundamental prerequisite for each sale. The first is the achievement of the highest possible price for the sale of state shares in companies, and the second is the choice of an optimal investor who will at least provide additional jobs over the medium term and contribute to the development of the Slovenian market or business environment. Respected and respected! Today is the beginning of summer, the time illustrated by optimism and light. In the light of this symbolism, I hope that today is a good start for a new and better Slovenian economy as well as the most important – for Slovenian citizens and citizens and workers and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u8	President, Honourable Minister with Colleagues, Honourable High Council! In the Civil Gazette, since the creation of the party, we have consistently advocated the withdrawal of the country from the economy. With quick and superficial reflection, it is not difficult to agree with the view of sales opponents that the exit must wait for the right time and the right price, but a more precise view reveals the danger of such thinking. The latest case is Mercator's sale, where waiting for Mercator's sellers in the right time cost more than 100 million euros in just one year. Waiting for the right time and the right price is the basic activity of speculators in financial markets. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that politics and the associated lobbying in the past have already speculated too much about the property of citizens. The opinion of the National Charter was and will be that such a wasteful, opaque, centrally driven political intervention in economic societies should be put to an end and that normal development should be allowed to take place and citizens should be able to cope with the costs of poor governance and continuous recapitalisation. Our view is that the only long-term solution is to sell not only these 15 companies, but most of the country's capital investments. The OECD and the European Commission have long warned that it would make sense, if not necessarily, for Slovenia to reduce its ownership role in the state economy. The extent of the country's ownership and economic governance in Slovenia is unusual for developed market economies, according to OECD research. In the study Product Market Regulation published by the OECD in October 2010, Slovenia achieved a score of 3.86 on the ownership scale of Slovenia, which is ranked at the top of the survey. In comparison, Russia, 4.28, and China, 5.33, reached the highest score from the countries under consideration. Of the countries concerned, Slovenia is the most comparable Estonia, which reaches 2.24, while the OECD average is 2.93. This indicates that the extent of state ownership in Slovenia is significantly above the OECD average. The quality of governance of state property was also often criticized by international organisations. If asset management were appropriate, which required a policy withdrawal from management, they would probably not even consider selling. I'm afraid that's not the case. Politics never knew or wanted to leave rich kindergartens and state-owned profits. These were often supported by monopolies from the state and generated their profits by emptying citizens' wallets. The monopolist loss was covered by citizens, and profits were shared by various lobbyists, who, as soon as the open debate on the sale of state property is open, fire all guns at sales promoters and use high-flying words of national interest and state silver. Singed state silver is rusty due to poor management and wear-down over the years, and if we proceed with the delay of action, it will disappear completely. Then we will not even be able to talk about the sale, even about the sale no, we can only sadly find that we have nothing left at best, and we are much more likely to have debts and memories of over-recapitalisation and the noise of national interest in our ears. It is economically pointless and unacceptable to be indebted to significantly higher interest rates, such as the return on non-strategic investments by the State. That's not what a good master does. For the new investments of the country, the sale of existing investments is much more meaningful for high interest rates than a new debt. There was a lot of talk that we should first adopt a management strategy and then approach what the strategy would set for each company. In some cases, this is the sale in full, in others the retention of the control share and in the case of strategic investments full ownership. But history teaches us that if you don't want to change something, you set up a commission and set up a strategy. Then it opens up a lot of possibilities to cover up the right intentions and delay procedures. In the Civil Gazette, we support the sale of non-strategic investments to new strategic owners, vision owners and assets that will enable new developments, whether domestic or foreign. We therefore welcome the decision under consideration in the Civil Gazette and will be pleased to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u10	Good afternoon, distinguished president, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister with associates! In the Slovenian People's Party, we share the opinion of many of you and also the wider Slovenian public that we have not really been famous in 20 years as good managers of state property, and that steps should be taken in the following years and months also in the area of governance of this state property and in the area of the promotion of privatisation. The basic purpose, the basic objective we want to follow in this regard, is to look for strategic owners, owners who will bring the companies the fresh capital we urgently need, and owners who will accelerate the development of these companies. However, we are certainly not in favour of just some sale at discount prices and that they come to the country by owners who most often find it very difficult to show enough funds for the purchases they take. Last year, a very broad and in-depth discussion took place throughout last summer in the National Assembly between coalition and opposition parties on how to bring this poor governance and availability and privatisation procedures to a higher level. The first observation was that owners should be brought together under one roof, that one sells state property, not as in the case where we have 5 owners, and the other that it is necessary to make a very clear strategy, what we will do with this state property and how we will determine by privatising this property what remains state-owned and how best to manage. Therefore, the Slovenian State Holding Act was prepared. This was followed by a classification of state investments and also a governance strategy for state property. Unfortunately, because of the different circumstances, these documents were not accepted. Even when we received this document at the time of the new coalition this year, it was smoothly rejected. It was interesting that, just yesterday, the President of the National Assembly here said publicly that he estimated that the document that was prepared at that time was at a much higher and better level than the one that we are deciding on today, and we will make decisions in such a way that we will have only a five-minute position of parliamentary groups, without any major debate. There are some very interesting things in this document. For example, we sell or are on this list Nova Credit Bank Maribor, a bank that we are jointly deciding on 100 million recapitalisations, a bank that is on the list of banks that will receive state aid or through a bad bank also take on bad, disputed claims from the past. On the list is the Ljubljana Airport. Airports, which, in addition to being the operator, also owns a large majority of the assets, facilities, according to some data even the airport trail. There's also Adria, who's obviously harder to sell than the Aerodrome. In the Slovenian People's Party, we firmly believe that it should be very clear in the strategy what we will do with how we will sell, not that in such a short debate or after this procedure, some list of 15 companies, which has apparently been created in some strange way in the cabinet of the President of the Government, we are now deciding. The classification was unfortunately rejected. There is also no prospect that the Slovenian State Holding will come in a similar or modified form to the National Assembly in a short time. More or less, we estimate that there is now an attempt to respond to requests sent by the European Commission in documents that need to be met by autumn both in the area of privatisation and in the area of governance of state banks. We are missing, as we have already said, this strategy. I think that we need it to be part of a national strategy, that it needs to be dealt with in an appropriate way, but not that, in one or the other case, these arrangements are concluded in the cabinets of the Presidents or the Presidents of governments, which is more obvious than in recent times, as it has been evident in the past. Therefore, we cannot support such a document in the Slovenian People's Party and we will not support it today. However, we could rest assured that at the first September session a document would contain what I mentioned earlier and would be very much in favour of supporting such a document in the Slovenian People's Party. That's not what we're gonna do today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u11	Thank you for your introduction. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u12	Good day to you all! The fact that the privatisation process has to be carried out that the State has to sell its shares in companies and banks is not new. This is something Slovenian political shit has been thinking about and talking about ever since independence. Our Group of Members believes in principle that it is necessary to withdraw the country from companies and banks, but not fully withdraw and not at any cost. According to our assessment, it is important that the state retains ownership or ownership of those companies of strategic importance and in companies that are highly profitable. The primary role of strategically qualified companies is to maintain the majority national ownership of economic and infrastructure-related companies due to the wider national interest. The role of other groups of society, let's say important companies that are doing well, should be creating adequate high profits and making these returns into the budget. In such companies, according to our assessment, the country should maintain at least a controlling share – 25 plus 1 share. In the DeSUS Group, you know well that others in the past have dealt only with the question of how to redistribute and share state property, not how to noble it. Generations that have created property, and also generations that come after us, should benefit from this once-so-called social property. Thus, in large cases, this property has become a tycoon property, which we have not yet received back, I do not know why. The key to how much and what state assets we have at this time, and which and how much more we will have in the future, is the issue of governance. The way in which it was managed so far has obviously not been adequate, as it has not been effective. There is a question of the responsibility of supervisors and administrations for the successful or, better yet, the failure of these companies. With the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act, we have put in place new frameworks for capital investment management, but the new governance system is not yet operational. We also do not have a governance strategy and companies have not yet been qualified according to the position and role they should have in relation to the country as co-owners or owners. We know the list of companies that the country will try to sell in the package under consideration today. Among these 15 companies are those that do business positively, as well as those that are in red numbers. The fact is that these companies work together between 11 and 12 thousand people. In the DeSUS Group, we give the green light to the sale of this package, but at the same time we demand that those responsible make maximum efforts to ensure that sales are successful – that the best seller position is marketed. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is certainly necessary to achieve the right price, and even more important than that is to maintain and increase the number of jobs and maintain and promote economic activities on domestic soils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary-General, Dr. Chufer! One month ago, in the National Assembly, we discussed the proposal to disengage the State capital share of the economy of Peko, d.d. We had a broad debate and finally the coalition voted in favour of withdrawing this capital investment. Final purchase: Croatian buyer Ciompex resigned from the contract to purchase this company. In the debate, we drew attention to the corruption of the owners of Ciompex. The fate of the company, and in particular of the workers of the company, remains uncertain. Clearly, the ruling coalition in this case has learned nothing. She did not learn what we have always warned in New Slovenia – that according to the applicable provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the SDH Investment Classification and the SDH Capital Investment Management Guidelines should be adopted as soon as possible and then started selling state property. If, instead of an expert policy, it is decided which state property is sold, when and under what conditions, the sale process, we can say that it is already doomed to failure. The government coalition has obvious difficulties in managing state-owned capital investments. The Coalition Treaty, formally referred to as the Cooperation Agreement on PS, SD, DL and DeSUS in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, still states that the Slovenian State Holding Act is to be supplemented and corrected by not transferring state property to holding. Members of the New Slovenia Group have been warned all the time that the commitments of the government coalition are a step backwards. Only under pressure from the recommendations of the European Commission did the government coalition withdraw from the previously announced amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act, but it did not start implementing the provisions of this current law. To date, a new proposal for the Classification of Investments of the Slovenian State Holding Group has not yet been tabled in the parliamentary procedure, although the deadline for the submission of this document has long expired. The purpose of the first classification is to ensure transparency in the management and management of the capital shares of companies at the time of adoption of the strategy. The government committed itself to preparing the first capital investment management strategy by the end of September 2013 with the National Reform Programme and to selling the country's business shares in 15 companies before the preparation of this document. What were the criteria for selecting these 15 companies for sale? This is not apparent either from government material or from further explanations by the representatives of the applicants at the meeting of the home working body. In particular, it is not explained whether the capital shares in all these 15 companies are portfolio investment or whether an undertaking is a strategic or significant investment. We just don't know that today. Obviously, the only criterion has been reached for the agreement of coalition parties, which is commendable. In the daily press, we read the pompous title "The Coalition for the Sale of State Property Harmonized" a few days ago, and we wonder what the reason is that when the Social Democrats entered the current government coalition, they completely changed their position on the sale of the capital shares of state companies, which were for them until recently, at a time when they were the opposition party, the robbery of centuries. While we support New Slovenia's understanding, we support the country's withdrawal from the economy, because we believe that the country is not a good host. We have 20 years of bad experience. Withdrawal from the economy, withdrawal from the economy – this is what we have all along written down in our political agenda. However, the sale of state capital shares must be carried out in a predetermined and transparent manner. Ladies and gentlemen, today's pressure on the key doesn't mean it's sold. Before the final sale, we will demand that this sale is cost-effective – we will demand the optimal price – and that the sale is transparent. If the slightest suspicion can be seen about economy and transparency, we will make a lot of noise as an opposition party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u16	Your Honor! Today, we are discussing and deciding on the decisions to alienate investments. First answer to the question why. If we start with the situation before 2011, and this is necessary, and draw data from the report of the then state-owned operator, we can find that before 2011, we had no legal framework for the sale of shares and shares in the Republic of Slovenia. We had no legal framework for managing Slovenia's capital investments. There were no guidelines, no state-owned company management code, no state capital investment records. They were dispersed through departmental ministries where there were no sectoral policies. I'm not going to talk about reporting these companies at all. The Government programme is presented in both documents, the National Reform Programme and the Stability Pact. Both documents were forwarded by the Government to the European Commission, which submitted a report on their basis. These are documents, not shortcuts, colleagues. If I linger a little on the 2012-2016 stability programme. The Stability Programme is a document that sets out commitments regarding the consolidation of public finances and, above all, the commitments – in particular, we stress – regarding the start-up of economic growth. That's not going fast. Among the measures taken to revive economic growth, the Government also recorded the privatisation of certain state-owned enterprises, prudent privatisation. The government has also committed itself to preparing the entire public investment management strategy by the last quarter of this year. Before summer, the first privatisation package will be implemented in accordance with Article 38 of the Law. Importantly, a key part of the strategy will be aimed directly at managing the assets that will remain state-owned and we are stuck here. What is essential to us is an analysis of the relationship and interaction of economic elites in state societies and political elites, whatever the expression elite in this connection sounds disgusting to me. Whether it be a left or a right government, whether it be a mixed government, no one has escaped the temptation to establish and use their networks. Today we call it bad corporate governance. It's cynical. The administrations and the supervisory councils work here and there rather like the current policy and inefficient, inefficient and irresponsible. From then on, illegal and illegal practices are common. Let me involve the taxpayers here in a sad way. These networks, which are constant, have burdened taxpayers, more. The taxpayers are in a dangerous situation, so the government is offering and encouraging three logically related measures in the Positive Slovenia Group in June: the budget balance, the first transfer of claims to the Bank's Claims Management Company, which is expected to release the credit crunch, and the first package of portfolio and important state investments offered for sale, I stress, to domestic and foreign investors and, as a rule, to strategic investors. We probably agree that the start-up of the economy is not possible in a way that has not worked for decades that has not produced fruit, so the measures are logical. Your Honor, we have a list of 14 companies and one bank ahead of us. This is not a list of silver, as was said — there is little silver. The intent to sell is not without risks. There's a faster way ahead of her than we think, and there's gonna be a very hard landing. We support the proposal for a decision in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. The drag horses of the coalition are consciously leading us to destruction. In other words, if three of the four presidents of the coalition parties have stated that Janša's proposal has been rejected, it has been much better than what their government has offered us. You have rejected a good document with great ease, I can say with your left hand, including all the shortcomings, after the water has started to flow into your throat, and you have offered this list with which you are not satisfied. Not only this list, including what you confirmed yesterday, with the revisions of the takeover and state aid law, is a direct component of this project, which will allow uncontrolled, political management of the money outflow of selected clients who collects money in Cyprus and other offshore locations. Today you will decide to sell 15 companies without having defined what our national interests are, what are our objectives, what are the expected sales effects, what will be the effects on our economy, etc. You did not attach anything to any of the companies and submit anything. Nothing. On the list, Telekom, for which when the password of national interest was in place in Slovenia, would have survived several times more than now. Some who were then opposed are now in favour, and in the meantime we will lose hundreds of millions of euros. There's Adria Airways on the list, which we probably won't even make a two-year recapitalisation. On the list is Nova Credit Bank Maribor, probably at the special request of the President of the Government, who was a supervisor there and assisted in many bad decisions. Although investigative proceedings are ongoing due to numerous injuries, the sale of a bank would have interrupted a number of cases. It may even be a silent condition for the chosen buyer, and Alenka Bratusek will be washed off the bride’s part of the overseer. In view of the fact that the sale of the bank has been communicated to us through the Croatian media, it is likely that the buyer of the New Credit Bank Maribor will also be from the country of Agrokor, so that it will join Mercator, Elan, Pek and perhaps others. It is not known how it will be sold, as it was not known yesterday how companies will be selected for state aid. Everything will be taken to the market by most people with sticky fingers, and this is where the places of the century and treason will take place. Lukšič and Weber know this very well, so with this public exaggeration they make the basis for being with one leg and with the other outside. But Members will vote and allow this to be sold. He'll probably have a lot of words about selling again "old" like setting up ministers, government officials, supervisors, board members. The evidence that this government is run by people in the shadows, even frozen, is already more than enough, so deny these things. Any false statement by the President of the Government just adds to that. The additional problem with this sale is that companies have not been transferred to the Slovenian State Holding. As a result, the pension box is not eligible for 10 % of the purchase. The key requirement of DeSUS will not be realized, and it will not be so known by the unions, but are wisely silent. There's no protest. The preparation of the next, perhaps even larger package of sales companies is forecast in the autumn. Probably also past the Slovenian state holding company and without adequate supporting reasons and documents, and also without directing part of the purchase to the pension register. Me and us don't expect the behavior of DeSUS and the unions to change. The same will probably remain with the Social Democrats. However, this position means the systematic play of the Slovenian State Holding Act and also the commitments made by the EU and endorsed by Alenka Bratušek at the European Council at the end of May. We do not support the withdrawal from good, profitable companies simply to climb into increasing state shares in failing companies. The Slovenian Democratic Party supports transparent and reasoned privatisation and the withdrawal of the country from the economy, but the government of Alenka Bratušek has expressly cancelled such an approach and we will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Matjaž Han has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr President, I know you would have done this, but since you've probably been mentioned yourself, it's harder to do this. However, it would be right to warn Mr Jožet Tank that he has taken advantage of the performance on behalf of the parliamentary group and has disputed with the people who are in this Chamber, even worse, that he has embroiled with people who are not at all in this Chamber. You know that this is illegal and it is not right to do this on behalf of the groups of Members when you perform. Secondly, Mr Jože, we could all have an emotional speech at this time, but we could also have a populist speech. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have said that this will not be the case today. To play with people's feelings and accuse them right away is a state that makes us where we are in Slovenia. President, I would ask you to warn Jozet Tank, however, that he broke the rules of procedure. That's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u21	Thank you for your procedural proposal. I think that so many times in this Chamber, both in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and in the explanation of the vote, there have been polynomizations, although we all know that this is illegal. I could have interrupted Mr Tank sooner, but I have estimated that this has already happened so many times so far to needlessly prolong today's debate. However, I agree with you that all of you are trying to understand that the rules of procedure for delimiting, as has been said, someone who is not in the Chamber or with other Members, when it is impossible to discuss, does not allow. We are done with the presentation of the positions procedurally, Mr Tanko. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I do not think that this intervention by colleague Han was justified because it was not our decision that there was no debate today. In the views of the parliamentary groups, you all have also told history, including the representative of Positive Slovenia, but I am pleased that I was obviously very well understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u23	Thank you. I hope we can get to the vote. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for a decision, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving to a vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal for a decision on the consent to alienate the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Society of Pension and Disabled Insurance, d. d., the Slovenian Compensation Society, d. d., the Modre Insurance Offices, d.d., DSU, consultancy and management companies, d. o. o., and the Special Companies for Business Consulting, d. d. We're voting. I'm calling it off. [[...]] Voice explanation, Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Minister! I cannot believe that in this national assembly, today Members and Members are supposed to decide on the sale of 15 companies and it is a right to speak only on behalf of the parliamentary group. When you came to the National Assembly a few weeks ago, and you were vehemently explaining how you saved him and how everything was going to turn out, there was a discussion in five hours. Who gave you the right to take the opportunity and the right to speak about probably one of the most important points in this country? Some of you have said today that emotion, emotion, must be restrained, and I say the following. It's not about emotions and emotions, it's about fair and principled posture. Tomorrow morning, when you get up, at least some, and step in front of the mirror, the mirror will probably rest from the shame of what you said a few months ago and what today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u25	Mr Pukšič, allow me to interrupt you because you did not listen to Mr Han, who warned that it was not appropriate and is contrary to the rules of procedure, that we try to talk about others when they cannot answer you. I have also warned myself that this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to explain your vote on how you will vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u26	Plus, those two minutes I have at my disposal, that's what you wanted to take from me. Keep working, there's no problem. People will tell you what to do. But I'm telling you, tomorrow morning, some of you will look at them, and they'll take a bath. It's a shame all those of you who said something and you're doing something different today. You know, we had a chance yesterday to see a lot of hidden truths about Mercator and Todorovic's sale. Whoever gets the most out of it, we read it in the paper days ago. My voice from Slovenian Gorica, the voice of workers and workers, farmers and farmers, you will not get for what I agree with Mr Webro, a real theft of the century.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u27	The vote also wishes to explain Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u28	If I hadn't explained what I'm doing today, it would have been just a vote and the pressure on the button would have been a cowardly act. In the National Assembly in the last four and a half years, I have certainly said the most often that I believe that the country can be a good owner of businesses. Nevertheless, today I am placed in a position where I am forced to take and to understand that, with the decisions that this country and policy have taken so far, we have forced the country into a situation where today, when certain urgent measures need to be taken. Today's vote will certainly be one of the hardest since I've been a member of the National Assembly. But for it to be different, Slovenian policy should accept the fact that it must be self-limited, that it must accept the fact that its ruthless behaviour and decision-making, instead of those who are set up for it, should be held accountable, does not lead anywhere and the country has also brought it to where it is today in the capital investment management segment. Sincerely and with good intentions, as did other Members of the Social Democrats, I have been involved in the process of reforming corporate governance with the law on the management of the country's capital investments in recent years. In order to remove the policy from the administration of state property, but not from a country which should remain a legitimate medium of interest in the pursuit of the country's long-term development objectives. Faced with the situation in which my country is today, I am forced to support the proposed decision on the privatisation of state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u29	Thank you. Even Mr Franz Bogovic wants to explain his voice. There are many of you, so I am opening up the possibility of applying for explanations of vote on my own behalf. We can go again on behalf of the Group of Members, but today we have listened to presentations on the positions of the Groups of Members. I hope it was satisfactory that we could hear what you thought in the parliamentary groups. However, if you think you want to explain your vote again on behalf of the groups of Members, then I suggest that all of you who have now applied in our own name be deleted from the list and that we proceed first to explain the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I warn you that, at the time I went to the vote, no one has expressed the interest to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Since the Rules of Procedure stipulate that the first explanation is on behalf of the groups of Members, we shall go to this point – an explanation of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Jani Möderndorfer wishes on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u30	President, we're jumping out of our heads here. Let's stick to one order. The positions on behalf of Members have already been, and now we are going back one step. Please, if this is to be done, then there is no problem; Members should not be cut off from their explanations of vote and explain what they want, but we have already finished the parliamentary groups. Let's get this thing over with.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u31	Thank you. I agree with you, but as we have heard, the interest has been very clear to explain the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Matjaz Han, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u32	I know that I have no influence, respected and respected, on you, but the College has decided that today we will only discuss on behalf of the groups of Members, in accordance with the rules of procedure and practice in recent years. Please, let us show a little dignity and let us no longer discuss and open up emotional debates today. Here we can compete without any problems, all of us, and you and us. No one in this hall is good enough to sell Slovenian property. However, I hope there will be a time when we can buy this Slovenian property back. I propose, Madam President, given that you have an obligation today that I would not like you to have it, to conclude the debate, to vote. In the National Assembly, we will have many opportunities to discuss such or other matters. I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, to stop this debate and not open the wounds that hurt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u33	Thank you. On this occasion, allow me to explain. The Colleges did not decide to discuss today or to have the opportunity to present only the views of the Group of Members. Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure allows 10 Members to request a general discussion of the decision within 15 days of the decision being brought into the procedure. 10 Members did not submit this request and therefore a general discussion on this Decision could not be carried out. No amendments have been tabled on the home working body, nor has any amendments been adopted, which is why, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, only the parliamentary groups can present their views today. We are now in the voice-explanatory phase. I hope that I can now proceed with the procedure for applying for explanations of views on behalf of the groups of Members. I invite you to apply for an explanation of your views on behalf of the groups of Members. Check-in is on. Mr Franz Bogovic will explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u34	Surely we all agree that we are talking about a very important issue, a problem, so it is only right to take advantage of the opportunity, in addition to the five minutes available, to explain our votes, but there is no need to use procedural procedures. As regards the position of the Slovenian People's Party, I would like once again to make it very clear that in the Slovenian People's Party we are aware that privatisation procedures in Slovenia are necessary, that there is a lot to be done in the area of the withdrawal of the State from ownership, and that this needs to be done in an organized and manner, so that we can discuss ourselves thoroughly and also give a clear strategy on what we want to do with this privatisation. The procedures we are taking now do not allow this, so today we are opposed to this process, and we really regret that we are not continuing where we made a good base last year, and we could have completed the process of making and adopting a classification of the availability of state assets and clear strategic decisions so far. As we now include some companies that own even such infrastructure as Slovenia's only national airport and, on the other hand, the bank that will continue to transfer claims to a bad bank, recapitalisation by the State, we firmly believe that we are not working transparently and that there will be legitimate doubts as to what will happen next. Slovenia's state holding would basically, as it was last summer's beginning, allow just one place to be responsible for these sales, and those responsible would prepare a very clear classification, a strategy, and we know why we are selling state property if we sell it. I do not agree to sell to patch up the budget hole, but we should sell Slovenian assets strategically and let private owners into this property in such a way that there are more jobs in Slovenia so that our children have the opportunity to work at home, not with a very busy view and with the aim of mending the budget hole with this sale we fill the state budget. We have all repeatedly convinced ourselves that politics simply does not feel that way to withdraw from this area, and we fear that even in these procedures, which are the most popular in loving politics, even in this case, it will not be able to. The holding company could certainly have a much more transparent and responsible position and management of state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u35	Thank you. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will explain the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party has always supported privatisation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that privatisation is necessary because of the following issues: the high share of the country in companies, the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society, the inefficient and non-transparent management of state assets and the state of public finances. Today, according to the state of public finances, the state cannot offer company support and in some cases successful companies are even exhausted. The government of Janez Janša was aware that property management in the country was ineffective. This is why she established the Slovenian State Holding and proposed that Slovenian state property should be concentrated in one place. In accordance with the law, it sent a classification and guidelines to the National Assembly, two of the most important documents of the State holding company and the current government coalition rejected these two documents. The privatisation concept offered by the government of Alenka Bratušek is not supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We do not support it in particular because there is a risk that such privatisation will take place in a non-transparent manner. We estimate that the National Assembly is not a place to decide on individual sales procedures, as this will drive away a number of serious investors. The National Assembly should discuss the concept of sales, the methods of sale, the methods of sale and the classification of companies, strategic, important and those for sale. You have taken a step forward, and therefore we estimate that this privatisation will take place in a non-transparent way so that it will not be effective. We do not object to the sale of those companies in which the sales proceedings have already taken place. We will not, or will not, allow the current coalition to take advantage of the Slovenian State Holding Act and thereby reduce the pension fund for more than 200 million. We're not gonna let that happen. It will be interesting to see how DeSUS Members, who were one year ago when I was the leader of the holding group, would even be threatened by leaving the coalition if this 10% purchase did not belong to the pension fund. All these reasons that I have just stated – we are not opposed to privatisation, but we are opposed to the concept proposed by the government of Alenka Bratušek. I am pleased, however, that a number of Members have acknowledged from the presidents of political parties that the classification prepared by the government of Janez Janša was essential [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u37	Thank you. We have completed our explanation of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I ask if there is still an interest to explain your voice in your own name. There's still more of you. Allow me to open the possibility of applying for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will abstain from voting. I'll explain why. Yesterday, I spoke to two members of the coalition. That's what they said. Interestingly, we have a theme where we will sell or sell 15 Slovenian companies, planned for 45 minutes, and a non-essential topic for 4 or 5 hours. This suggests that members of the coalition also realize that the debate should be more thorough. Personally, I do not oppose the sale of property because 20-year management indicates that we are bad managers. However, I am afraid that so unilaterally and without approximately two-thirds of Parliament's support, without consensual solutions, the solutions adopted in the long term have some harmful consequences such as the adoption of the Property Transformation Act in 1993 and the later so-called tacunaisation of state-owned enterprises. That is why I will refrain, because I fear that the consequences of the decisions taken are moral gambling, with Parliament taking this, but the negative consequences will be borne by taxpayers. I don't want any part of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u39	Thank you. Franz Beznik will be next to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Today we are coming to the grand finale of the so-called national interest. The ship completely fell for it three years ago. Fraud with national interest is that factor in Slovenian modern economic history, about which generations, those dealing with the political economy and teaching it in serious economic colleges can say how this is not done, how the economic transition was totally unsuccessful, how the previous regime, which maintained its privileges, played a role in this emerging country by deceiving most citizens and citizens of this country. The companies that are in the new classification currently represented by the coalition are companies that were once considered to be parade horses while they were in a monopoly position. Whenever serious competition came into these industries, these companies were taken over. They are stranded because of negative staff selection and mainly because of catastrophic corporate governance. All that emerges, which is not in this classification, are companies that hold the so-called monopoly position in this country that impede the normal market economy. We are now waiting for these companies to face competition and to exhaust themselves and prove the disastrous management of these companies. Therefore, citizens and citizens can face what fraud of national interest means and at what price will we sell these companies. This is the conclusion of the Slovenian story of the so-called economic transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-06-21-SDZ6-Izredna-39.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Brane Golubovic will explain his voice. He's quitting. I find that there is no longer interest in explaining the vote, so we are moving on to a decision. We vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 20. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members and Members, I ask you to take all the materials out of the hall, because the hall has to be prepared for the festive session on Monday. See you Monday. I also conclude the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
