ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by Ambassador Polonac Komar. I invited the representative of the Council of State to the expected enlargements of the agenda, agenda item 17a and item 17b, and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I welcome all those present once again! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 47th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 5 November 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of two proposals for extending the agenda. The Group of 49 Members and Members with the first signed Janije Möderndorfer submitted a request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly with the following points: Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, EPA 1385-VI, and Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, EPA 1513-VI. Following the agreement of the 71st meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, on 8 November 2013, I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 47th Extraordinary Meeting be extended by means of those matters. You received a proposal for enlargement on Friday, 8. 11. 2013 I also propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together and, of course, we will vote separately on each proposal. Does the government's representative want a word as bills' proponent? I guess not. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. I am closing the debate on enlargement proposals and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Take your time and check it out. Is he okay? Thank you. We are moving on to a decision: we are deciding on a proposal to extend the agenda by re-decision on the Law of Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, EPA 1385-VI. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The National Assembly will treat the matter as the 17th item of the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to expand the agenda by re-declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, EPA 1513-VI. Can we vote? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The National Assembly will treat the matter as a 17b item on the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference, with the additions adopted. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 6. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the agenda of the 47th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. Following the agreement of the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, we are moving on to 1. AND 2. This is at the joint introduction of the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. The proposal for amending the budget and the supplementary draft budget were submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Before we go to the hearing, let me warn you that the President of the Government is a magician. Alenka Bratušek, on the adoption of the 2014 draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, fully linked the question of the confidence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as provided by the last sentence of Article 117, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 258 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government has proposed that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. I give my word to the President of the Magnificent Government. Alenki Bratušek for further explanation of both proposals for acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens! The government is coming before you today with budgets for 2014 and 2015. 2014 is the first year of the new financial perspective. In the European Union, we plan our joint European moves by 2020 – for 7 years, well beyond one mandate. You can imagine what Slovenia would be like in seven years' time if we knew how to shrink our species and make difficult decisions together. Not tomorrow, not next spring, but in seven years! Can we all work for the same purpose? Could this objective be a successful, friendly, just, social and solidarity Slovenia? Each path begins with the first step. The vision of Slovenia also starts today in 7 years. Our financial perspective begins with this budget. The lives of our citizens will depend in many ways on your decisions this week. Since I am fully aware of this, I am ready to adopt this budget to bind the confidence of our government. It is because of this awareness that I believe in your trust. If we didn't realize the difficulty of the situation, we wouldn't deserve your understanding. But only with proposals for solutions from this situation can we also deserve your confidence. When the National Assembly entrusted me with the leadership of the government, the situation in the country could hardly be more difficult. Economic activity fell by 4.5% in the first three months of this year. Less than 4.5% was a decline in economic activity in the first three months of this year! 122 thousand 630 unemployed in March of this year. The country's back in recession. The budget left by the previous government was unrealistic. Foreign media began writing about Slovenia as the next country to be forced to ask for international financial assistance. But we insisted that we solve our problems ourselves — we know them, we only need time. For a while, we really did gain and make good use of it. Today we are proposing a budget that will reduce the deficit below 3%. We didn't sacrifice our development with debt. Investments are not slowed down. In transferring bad claims to a bad bank that will relieve the banking system, we are just waiting for stress tests to be completed. We have spent half a billion Euros of financial assistance on small and medium-sized enterprises to promote entrepreneurship and innovation. We have enacted incentives to facilitate the employment of young people, who have just become effective. With the unions, we agreed, without needless aggravation and blackmail, to reduce public sector wages. The legislation necessary for the systematic extension of businesses is on your hands. We are the first government to take the fight against the grey economy seriously. Last but not least, we have resolved a number of illegal or even unconstitutional decisions of the previous governments. In the first seven months, we did everything in our power and beyond what many expected of us. The media is increasingly speculating about Slovenia, Europe is increasingly trusting that we will really be able to do it ourselves. And most importantly, we're not alone. With us are the most successful exporters. We're making a reasonable deal with the employees' representatives. Many young people develop successful entrepreneurial ideas. Even the most difficult ones, they encourage us with their criticism. Let me be perfectly clear; without the trust of our people, citizens and citizens, no confidential person is helping. This trust can only be built on a series of concrete measures every day. Let me write them down. We have managed to turn economic activity in the right direction, but of course you can't just jump from minus 4.5 to positive growth. So far, we have managed to reach, unfortunately, still negative, minus 1.7 declines in economic activity. The forecasts for the next period are better. But in one quarter from minus 4.5 to minus 1.7! The number of unemployed is, unfortunately, still too high. Still 4 grand lower than I did in March when I took over the government's leadership. The number of public servants decreased by a thousand 183 or 0.8% this year. Our target was 1%, and that is what we will achieve. The decisions we have to make in these difficult times are neither easy nor easy — they always touch people. But you can trust me that we make all these difficult decisions with thought and always wonder what they will mean to specific people. People come first when we decide what needs to be done. I am convinced that the budget before you in the given situation has the least impact on the social status of the people. Of course, every act of justice or of raising taxes affects people. I have pointed out several times that this equation never comes out on one side alone. Why, though, is it actually necessary to collect taxes and burden people? I also learned from Drnovšek the basic maximum tax policy, which says: "Taxing the population is one of the essential elements of social justice. Any tax change should be a step towards a more equitable distribution of the burdens of public finances." What does the country do with the taxes collected? Reassign them fairly. The reallocation is the main and fundamental function of public finances. And I am sure that with the proposed budget we are working precisely in this, that is, in a just direction. With the taxes collected, we provide education for everyone, we pay all pensions, we provide health care, we pay child support, we pay 12 months of maternity pay, we provide compensation for the unemployed, we pay the scholarships. With taxes, we allow citizens to feel safe in their own country, that they do not have to go looking for work, not knowledge, or health abroad if they do not want to. However, there is something else with fair redistributed taxes; we build the feeling that we can do more together than take each other. Only together can we build roads and roads, modernize health care, enrich culture and develop language. Without taxes collected, the state couldn't have done it. When we had to decide during the free education of our children, the allowance for pensioners, the 12-month maternity allowance, the compensation for the unemployed and the scholarships on the one hand and on the other hand the taxes on real estate, the fight against the grey economy, the fight against those who spend more than they create, we decided to fight against the grey economy, the fight against the tax gap and the property tax. And yes, yes, yes, like any tax, it's going to hurt people. I'd like to show you that he's going to put more pressure on people from the countryside. Of course, that's not true. The tax will be substantially more equitablely distributed among all those who own property. So far, some have paid a lot, some have paid nothing — in the same country. The amount of the tax will be linked to the value of the property. The property in the city is valued more than the property in the countryside. I believe that this is clear to all and also clear from the records which form the basis for calculating this tax. However, in order not to speak clearly in mind, I will show with some information how much the average property in Slovenia will be burdened. The average housing size in Slovenia is slightly more than 68 square metres, the average real estate value is around €78 000, which means that the average real estate tax payment in 2014 will amount to €93.6 per year or €7.8 per month. The replacement for the use of the building land that the municipalities are collecting today averages €57 per year and € 4.8 per month for housing facilities again. If these two are said to have a new calculation of the tax and compensation for the use of the building land, we compare, we find that the family that owns the average size of the apartment, 68 square meters or I think that 68.7 accurate data will have paid 3 euros more per month than so far. Is this really too much price for a social state and a solidarity society? A crisis tax would be a bad alternative. If this tax were 2% for people receiving an average salary, this would mean an additional EUR 30 per month, which means ten times more than the property tax. 3 euros to 30 euros – this is the balance of government decision for citizens. And something else is very important. Those who don't have real estate won't pay their taxes. Anyone who doesn't have real estate won't have to pay the state anything. Whoever has more will also have to pay more, and whoever has much will have to give much. Why? In order to provide free education for all children, we will pay all pensions and pay child allowances, scholarships, unemployment benefits, maternity benefits and more. The budget is the most important act of any government. It is an expression of government policy in all areas, and that is why I have decided to bind the confidant I promised at the beginning of my mandate to the adoption of the budget. In the current situation, the possible alternative to the current stable government is only early elections with all the consequences that it would bring. In the pre-election period and even a few months after the elections, Slovenia would not have an operational government with full powers. It is not difficult to imagine what this would mean for a country in severe public financial difficulties, which still requires debt in foreign financial markets to function normally. The conversion that we will make with our own strength and without dictatorships from abroad is possible only with a politically sound and credible government. Former U.S. Foreign Minister Hillary Clinton once said that the worst thing that can happen to us in democracy, as well as in our private life, is to become cynical about our future and lose hope. I don't want to be cynical for a second, and believe me, I never lose hope. Critical that – desperate never! And I want Slovenia to be like this, my, your, our Slovenia. Critical, but never desperate. It is easy to give up and call for help from abroad, but only those who do not see a common goal or have no ideas do. Our government has a clear goal: a successful, social and just Slovenia. But only if we hope to tell ourselves what's right and what's wrong, and if we trust each other. For those of you who call for three and help from abroad, I say: the three that you threaten with will not be, because we know how to reach the goal ourselves. The troika is just your trick to cover up old sins and mistakes. Both the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission have made it clear that we are on the right track. That is why we do not see these institutions as threats today, but as partners; partners in joint reflection and in finding solutions to the crisis. What we hear today from our European colleagues, including Commissioner Rehn, is our own words: "We will be able!" Dear Members and Members! March this year, six months ago, you gave me sufficient confidence that as the first woman in Slovenia alone, I could form and take over the leadership of the Slovenian government. Today I stand before you again, but not alone, with my fellow ministers and ministers. You've got a budget ahead of you. We've got a tough, but positive weekend for the Finance Committee. But let's see what's ahead. It is not just months of hard work ahead of us and years of future development. We have many citizens and citizens ahead of us, who expect reasonable decisions and responsible actions from all of us, regardless of political colours and beliefs. Before you, ladies and gentlemen, there is a vote of confidence between me and my team. I decided to check to see if I had sufficient support in the National Assembly to fulfil our joint commitment, my commitment to a better and successful Slovenia. I honestly believe that this is the case, because Slovenia deserves a stable government that can lead our country forward. We have proved several times that we can achieve great goals in a united way. Let the politics that divides people permanently withdraw from the policy of integration. Connecting, dialogue and cooperation – these were my guides so far, if they continue, is up to you. You have my commitment, it is said: Slovenia of solidarity citizens and citizens, an honest state and a just society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u3	Thank you, too. We are in the process of further presenting both draft budgets, and I ask if it is possible for the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Chufer, to present both budgets further. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u4	Nice greetings, honourable Members, honourable Members! I would like to say a few words to you at the time of the adoption or debate you will have in this budget. The first thing I would like to mention is the very context in which we have prepared this budget. We know that we are in difficult times when the economic environment is particularly difficult. And we had a long time ago when the problems were actually accumulated, but they weren't getting rid of anything. Now it takes as much speed as determination to face these problems, and this means that there will be a number of measures before you, which are unpleasant in nature and would rather not have it. However, if we want to face problems, we must also face unpleasant measures. In order to establish a normal situation in the economy, which is a prerequisite for sustainable growth, not only one quarter, but a longer period of time, I think three areas need to be tackled. These are also the three priorities I have here, with me. The first concerns the banking sector, corporate debt. It is important that we clear the bank balance sheets to dispossess businesses, and we have quite a few activities in this area. Stress tests are currently being carried out in which we wanted to be able to clean the balance sheets first and then prepare them, and as a result, we have some delays, for about two quarters, when we have to do stress tests, instead of being able to establish a normal banking situation – so that we can transfer bad bank claims to a bad bank and recapitalise banks so that they can borrow money normally and function normally and deliver adequate liquidity and financial resources to companies. Within the same package of activities, it is important to allocate businesses, prepare a legal structure, and before you, the law on the deleveraging of companies, which in fact ensures that a more normal relationship between creditors and owners of enterprises will contribute to the legal basis for a significantly faster restructuring of businesses. Governance of state-owned enterprises and privatisation are the second pillar, which also means a step towards normalisation. You know that the Slovenian State Holding Act is currently being drafted, which touches on this area, to discuss how we will prepare the strategy, and that the privatisations of the first 15 companies have already been adopted and implemented. And the third pillar needed for normal functioning is fiscal consolidation. In front of you is the real estate tax budget and law, which is an integral part of this budget, which leads us to go to an adequate, moderate, not too fast and not too slow against fiscal consolidation. In all three areas, it is crucial that all three are supported by political stability that we can make decisions. If there is no political stability, it means that our decision-making process does not work and that we cannot make decisions – not only unpleasant ones, but also those pleasant ones. The ability to make decisions in difficult times is crucial for survival so that we can move on. When we look at the 2014 and 2015 budget or budget targets, they are the ones already set out in the stability programme that we discussed in the spring; the focus on reducing the country's structural deficit below 3% by the end of 2015 and the objective is to gradually achieve the medium-term fiscal objective and balance of public finances by 2017. The budgets for 2014 and 2015 are based on the macroeconomic baselines prepared by Umar in its autumn forecasts, which are not most happy, but are real and difficult enough and hard enough to take into account. The starting point is also the adoption of the 2014 budget. A number of adjustments have been made, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, and include a property tax. The total budget represents a deficit of €1 billion, representing 2.9% of the gross social product. I wish you to hold a debate on the budget as qualitative and efficient as possible and to adopt the proposed budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 were also considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 71st emergency meeting, 9. 11. 2013 as a parent working body, considered the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. We have received many opinions, proposals, including the opinion of the Council of State, which does not support the proposal for amending the budget. Representatives of the Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and the Council of Justice were invited to the meeting. We have received 20 amendments to the 2014 Draft amending budget. The Minister gave the opening argument, as we have just heard, so I would not repeat it. The debate mainly drew attention to the fact that the 2014 draft amending budget is unrealistic, that it is not development-oriented, that it is too much based on the introduction of new taxes on the revenue side, that there is no provision for deleted resources, that no third quarter of the pay gap is foreseen in the public sector. They noted that we have made a commitment to the European institutions to go to the expenditure side with two-thirds of the measures more towards reducing public spending, with one-third on the revenue side, so to speak, to increase the revenue of the state budget. The opposition also considered that we were making poor use of European funds and that a number of questions were raised regarding the implementation of stress tests and the rehabilitation of the banking system. The coalition members stressed that the budget is realistic, stabilising and follows the fundamental objective of reducing or eliminating the budget deficit by 2017. Members of the opposition also advocated moving bad claims to a bad bank as quickly as possible. At the end of the discussion, the Minister and other representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained most of the issues raised in the debate. At the end of the discussion, the Committee identified to the amendments tabled by qualified candidates tabled in accordance with Article 166 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and supported the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to user 5410 and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for nationality, while the other amendments were not supported by the Committee. Finally, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted a decision to support the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. There were also many constructive proposals at the time of discussion and consideration, as the meeting was quite a long one. It was further agreed that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy should propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consider the proposed measures in the Economic and Social Council debate of the 71st urgent meeting of the Committee of 9. 11. 2013 I think that it is right and also the purpose of all these discussions, that there are as few cross-accounts as possible, but as many constructive proposals as possible, and that would have an impact on the improvement of the situation in the country. I am talking now about the 2014 budget, but we also have the 2015 budget, which was discussed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy at its 70th emergency meeting, 8. 11. 2013 as the working body of the State and considered the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. From the Rules of Procedure, it is illogical that, as you have heard, we are on Friday, 8. 11th, discussed the 2015 budget first, and then only on Saturday 2014 but nothing about it. The Committee was presented with 15 amendments, which were submitted to the SDS and Nova Slovenija Group within a time limit specified in the supplementary draft budget. Representatives of the Government, the Ministry of Finance and the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development were invited to the meeting. The debate, which was still quite long, raised similar questions from opposition groups. They said that the updated draft budget does not have a developmental orientation, that the economy is overburdened, that certain items such as deleted funds are missing in the budget, that the third quarter of public sector salaries are harmonised and that there is no forecast revenue from privatisation. By not bringing Slovenia out of the crisis, the updated draft budget is in their opinion. They also considered that the updated draft budget was not sufficiently cost-effective and that there were still reserves. They also considered that Slovenia should no longer be in debt, at least after such high interest rates this is unsustainable. They wondered whether the current banking situation was taken into account in the supplementary draft budget, as the stress tests of banks were not yet known. In short, similar issues to those of the 2014 budget. Since I have had the opportunity to deal with several budgets over the years – a very similar situation – the opposition has never been very supportive of the coalition's budgets. It's nothing new. However, in coalition parliamentary groups, they assessed the opposite; in view of the situation, this budget is optimal, realistic and feasible. At the end of the discussion, the representative of the Ministry of Finance fully answered all the questions raised in the debate and, following the conclusion of the discussion on the Complementary Draft Budget for 2015, the Committee identified the amendments to the SDS and New Slovenia groups tabled in accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the context of the definition of individual amendments, the Committee did not support any of the amendments tabled to the 2015 supplementary draft budget. Following the discussion, it was decided that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy supports the 2015 Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which we also propose to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Jože Tanko has a procedural proposal before we go to the presentation of the views of the groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Colleagues, Prime Minister, ministers! We have heard the opening presentation of the two most important persons who have prepared and adopted the budget, namely the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance. In this brief introduction, we have not even started well, we have an hour short meeting, in fact, nothing has been explained about policies, about objectives, about guidelines, there has been no explanation of the figures in this budget. We have not yet seen such poor presentation of the budget in the National Assembly. President-in-Office, I propose that someone seriously presents the budget to us, because what has been said so far is more or less just slogans, flossules, piarism, but nothing about the content of the budget and budgetary policies. We do not know which direction and what it means for the budget to reduce investment expenditure. We do not know what it means for the budget to cut social rights. For example, non-coordinated income benefits — the consequences that this has on the population. We do not know what the budgetary implications will be for the reduction of certain resources for individual policies, as well as for the further development of the country. I think that both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance should submit his performance in particular to what this budget will bring us. Not those passwords we heard here. None of this was said. We are also now facing assessments, including the European Commission, which are significantly different from the starting points on which the budget is based. We know that there are no important costs in this budget that Minister Virant has promised for the 2014 budget. It is the payment of salary imbalances, it is the payment of certain rights to deleted and so on. You have not said what impact the real estate tax will have on the economy, the small economy, the large economy, agriculture and other things. I suggest someone on behalf of the government just does that. Finally, we gathered at the meeting of the National Assembly to hear important directions for the development of Slovenia in this opening presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Tanko, for your procedural proposal. In doing so, I must point out that these introductory speeches, both by the President of the Government and by the Minister of Finance, have included a further explanation of both proposals for acts. The meeting, as we can see, has, of course, been invited by both ministers and ministers, and the fact is that the discussion on the budget will then continue as a separate part of the general work budget, on specific work and on the development agenda plan. It will certainly explain in more detail what is also stated in terms of objectives, policies in specific areas. Of course, there will then be a debate on the amendments, but there will certainly be enough opportunities for the Government to present these parts of the budget more in detail, either by the President, the Ministry of Finance or other departments involved in the debate. By proposing that we continue the debate with the views of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, here we have the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We know that the budget does not cover all the necessary costs that should be covered by the budget. I mentioned some earlier in the introduction to this procedural proposal. Important things have been negotiated, important things have been promised and signed, this is about an agreement with the unions, about payment of salary imbalances or payments, it is about the extremely positive benevolent approach of Minister Virant as regards the settlement of compensations for deleted [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u11	What will be your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u12	These things are not in the budget, and unfortunately none of the government, because this is how the concept of explanation or these slogans is set up, has explained the shortcomings that are in this budget. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u13	What is your procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u14	Yes, I'll tell you, sir. Wait, I've got two more minutes to make a process proposal. I already told him once. I hope you understand. I hope the government understands him, and I will do it again. We have warned of all these important things that are not in the budget. This is also noted by the European Commission in its Communication, which estimated that the budget deficit would not be 2.9%, as demonstrated in 2014, but 7.1%. There was no comment in this respect, and neither the President of the Government nor the Minister for Finance, but these differences are probably important. There is nothing budgeted for the rehabilitation of the banking system, nothing about other things that we have warned about and so on. In short, we would expect that the two presentations made by the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance would explain these matters, which are not in the budget. I propose that some substantive comment on the budget, an explanation of the budget, be made by the President of the Government or the Minister of Finance or any other minister present here and can say something about the policies covered and affected by this budget. This is, I think, a minimum standard that is expected by members of the National Assembly – a substantive explanation of the budget. We haven't heard that before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. On your procedural proposal, I must say that you have repeated what you have proposed in the first procedural proposal, and I can only find that you have tried to abuse the Rules of Procedure for the second time and once again to say what I have explained to you that will follow in further discussions. However, we only have 8 hours and 25 minutes available for the 2014 budget. On a procedural basis, he wanted Mr Möderndorfer and then Mr Han to be seen.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u16	Mr. Tanko didn't try, the president of the National Assembly, but he abused him. We have already addressed in this National Assembly the rebalancing of one government and another government, and I must say that, when I was in opposition, when this part was in opposition, you never allowed such shameful conduct and abuse of the procedure to begin. Please, Mr Tanko, you have not been on the committees where this has been dealt with, and there you have had all the options and will have them, just as the whole opposition has. Therefore, I ask the President of the National Assembly, given that there is an eccentric, evident breach of the rules of procedure, that he does not wait for three minutes on a procedural basis, but should simply come at the beginning of the proposal as to what he is proposing. Then, for my sake, he can explain the process itself for three minutes and explain his proposal. Otherwise, I suppose this will now be constant, for every text he does not like at the speaker's desk, he will simply stand up and start saying for three minutes that he is not satisfied with the explanation. It is his problem and the problem of the opposition if he cannot read such a pile of material and if he does not understand the text of the debaters. And it really seems the most abominable thing to me that we don't even respect the basic procedure in the National Assembly. Mr. Tanko, you keep referring to this rule of procedure, stop using it, start using it!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u17	Thank you. Let me just stress once again that when a request for a procedural proposal is made, I am obliged to make it possible. Of course, then, it is up to an individual to respect the rules of procedure, as not least the vast majority in the National Assembly expect. The time available is, of course, possible to use in this direction, but in fact, I would also support Mr Möderndorfer's proposal that, if you have already applied for a procedural proposal, you should first make a procedural proposal and then explain this reason. This has also been a largely established practice and then forgotten in the National Assembly, but I suggest that we try to follow the order in which procedural proposals are drawn up. Mr. Han, did you want the procedure, too?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Your answer is good enough for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u19	Procedurally, Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u20	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I think it would be very good if the budgets for 2014 and 2015, which are the crucial years for Slovenia and Slovenia, were presented more qualitatively and that we would have done the same in presenting such budgets as we had in the past when adopting budgets that were not so crucial, to listen to the governor of the Bank of Slovenia behind this speaker stage. At times, Mr Arhar stood before this microphone and, when considering the draft budget, explained very well what policies were being followed, where the government was going from the perspective of the Bank of Slovenia. The next speaker was Dr. Janez Potočnik, then as Director of Umarja, who from his point of view made a credible presentation of the trends that Umar perceives and on the basis of which the budget for a given year was prepared. As follows, President Drnovšek of the Government of Drnovšek in those days took the floor and followed by the debate of the Minister of Finance, Slovenians and Slovenians, as well as Members and Members, knew where Slovenia was going in the coming years. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that this impatience and the fact that you can't even listen to procedural proposals anymore is talking about the culture that is being run in Slovenia today. There was also a lot of talk in the presentation about how we need to hear how we need to listen. We had a meeting until 6:30 a.m. because it was procedurally necessary to start on Friday, because on Saturday it is no longer possible to start the 2014 and 2015 budget – then the next day. When people try to say what's wrong, it just doesn't sound right. And if this country is not worth the fact that the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance with at least two numbers, three numbers will operate before the adoption of such fatal budgets, then I really don't know what we're all doing here together. The budget is fateful, built on a bunch of strangers to whom no one has an answer, and this needs to be said. If our leaders, statesmen, had in the past this state's view that they had done so when they were in the world and also in Slovenia, it would be very right for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do so today. I very much support Mr Tank's procedural proposal. I also support the fact that the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the representative of Umar would also speak at such a fateful time as these, if the Government has not already done so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Bogovic, let me remind you that there may have been a practice such as yourself that the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and the Director of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance have presented the budget, but the interpretation of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and paragraph 3 of this Article imposes a presentation of the budget on the President of the Government and the Minister for Finance. Thus, your procedural proposal cannot be taken into account. I propose that we allow us to come to a debate and that you get the answers you are trying to draw attention to in the procedural proposals. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor on a procedural basis. I hope that you will take note of the warning that you will first present a procedural proposal and then explain it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to choose my own approach because the rules allow me to do so. I have before me an agreement on the cooperation of the Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Under point 1, you have your priorities written down. And in the second indent, you wrote "enhancing social dialogue and dialogue with civil society". Civil society was above, listening and collecting signatures on the elements of the key law, which is an integral part of the budget package. In the third indent, you wrote "professional reasoning of political decisions". That's exactly what I've been alerting you to! The budget is a political act, and not the President of the Government, nor the Minister of Finance, have they argued it professionally. Nothing's wrong with him! And I propose that the reasoning and explanation of the budget should be done as expected and normally in accordance with the things recorded in the budget and not according to these flossules that are rolling on the stage. That's all I'm suggesting. And a few more things, Mr Möderndorfer, I suggest you take a look at the tapegram of the Friday session of the Committee on Finance and you will find that I have been there. I even discussed it. Not everyone was happy, but I was. President, I think it is your duty to ensure and ensure that things are done in the National Assembly at some appropriate, dignified level. We're not in the market, but we're in the National Assembly. The budget should be presented for a substantive reason, which is also the commitment of all coalition parties and I note that, according to the model you sold Slovenia as a coalition agreement, you do not do so. The things that we have received from all the Members – given by the Chamber – also speak of completely different information that the Prime Minister of the Government spoke of, otherwise, only the unemployed mentioned in her opening act. I would like to know how her government will repay 90,000 lost jobs with this budget. Not a word about it! I think that this is the way to discuss it. There have also been no words about why we are the first in the European Monetary Union after the burdens of work and what we can expect from this in the field of participation, export growth, competitiveness and so on. These are the topics on which the President of the Government, in our view, should give appropriate answers, and thus none of this has been the case. I suggest you make sure of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u23	Mr Tanko, I would like to warn you that you have violated the rules of procedure the second time. We are at that stage of the budget discussion where the debate between the Government and the National Assembly is not even possible because you are making this impossible with your procedural proposals. The act introducing the 2014 and 2015 budget was submitted to the National Assembly with all its components. Very extensive. The President of the Government and the Minister of Finance have the opportunity to follow the rules of procedure of the supplementary explanations of this act – complementary! But basically, you have everything that's already been submitted and explained. However, if we want to hold a debate and get answers to what you asked and put in these procedural proposals, it is necessary to come to this stage first and now, with such procedural proposals, to prevent a debate in the National Assembly for this purpose, which for 2014 is expected to take place for 8 hours and 25 minutes. Mr. Möderndorfer, did you want to proceed on a procedural basis? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u24	Since Mr Tanko has now taken the second time to point out that, in fact, he will make it impossible to discuss the budget in the National Assembly, because he has also shown this by his acts and he has made a coalition commitment to do so in an ever-increasing manner, I suggest that we stop it in this way, of course, that you follow the rules of procedure. You as chairman can do this. If he does not propose a concrete proposal and we will not vote on it, in short, nothing, he would like to enter into essentially a new way of debate, even before there is even a debate, is actually a necessary measure, and that is the only thing you can do. But I believe the polls hurt. When Positive Slovenia fell in the polls, it did not abuse the rules of procedure, you do so from this morning forward. Looks like it was so bad. I propose that this should be properly sobered on the opposition side and start as a viable opposition within the rules of procedure, cooperate within the debate, and I will respect this until the end of the debate, until the decision is taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Möderndorfer. Let me explain that after two warnings to Members or Members of Parliament that they are in breach of the Rules of Procedure, I can, of course, take away the word. I hope that we have seen that I have already warned Mr Tank twice that he has violated the rules of procedure and that if he tries to do something similar in the third, I will also take away his word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jerovšek has the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government and everyone else! Mr President, I will immediately give you a procedural proposal. Since I do not have these options at this time, please ask the President of the Government, given how the presentation was supposed to be done, which was not a presentation, but it was a reference to the slogan and it was a disgraceful humiliation and insult to the National Assembly – because I am with you one of the Members who have the longest internship here, and I know that it is dangerous for the President of the Government to have such an attitude towards parliamentary democracy – ask on our behalf whether the abolition of parliamentary democracy is in her head. For historical associations teach us that with the password budgets were only dictators. On the basis of such a presentation, she deserves to be trusted. And I ask that, at this point, she leaves the Parliament in an abusive manner, to ask her on an official path, what her intentions are with regard to democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u27	Mr Jerovšek, you have certainly followed the discussions we have had on the procedural proposals, and you have observed that I have assessed such procedural proposals for violations of the rules of procedure. Even in your case, it was a violation of the rules of procedure. I propose that we proceed with the debate. I give the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats to Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! We are at a time when we have a decision on the state budget. We have generally accepted this time as part of the pre-planned and as an opportunity for the government to implement the policy outlined through budgetary documents. If we look back in time before the crisis, we have not promised ourselves particularly great political turbulence when we adopt budgets. When we heard the debates, we had the feeling that the best way to test the negotiating capacity of individual political options is to get the most out of the budget for their client content. The priorities of individuals to provide money to build these or those roads, the necessary sewers, perhaps cleaning plants, were then on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen, don't let this be an excuse to make it easy for us to live in an easy time at the time. I would like to point out that today we are no longer in a position and situation where the budget was a field of battles between the policies of various coalition parties and between individuals, and at least everything seemed to have gone well. The crisis raised the question on the table of the European Community and Slovenia how to restore adequate social security, adequate jobs, development and the future for young people. And there's something else she's done. It brought unrest into the European family and disintegrated at least apparent homogeneity. Europe seems to be becoming a community in which it is no longer able to detect so much, not to say, the family affections of larger and stronger partners. These have taken on a new role in how to discipline and in some way to get all those students who do not show enough progress. There is little talk in the international public, respectable, that each member of the European Community is a story to himself and that Slovenia is neither Cyprus nor Greece nor Portugal. Unfortunately, these speculations have also been adopted by some Slovenian politicians who are calling the troika with open hands. We now have budgets that may represent the greatest test of our country's ability to maintain financial sovereignty. They are also testing whether we are willing to look beyond short-term interests, because of our unfulfilled wishes, we will only see to it that it is an important forest and not every single tree, whether we are capable despite the negative economic trends and in the big hole that has hit the public finances to ensure its basic functioning, namely, to stop the erosion of the social state, to set the conditions for the development of new jobs, to preserve public education, public health and to ensure financial sovereignty. With integrated answers to these questions we will accept responsibility and readiness, we will also adopt guidelines to help those who want good in Slovenia. On the other hand, we will set up a firm shield, and this is most important, against those who see Slovenia as prey in the name of capital interests. The 2014 and 2015 budget documents followed three main objectives: gradual fiscal consolidation, developmental orientation and social sensitivity. It is budgeting for both years a step on the road map that we have set ourselves with the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme. We have set up a public finance rescue plan with documents to Brussels, which may have narrowed the budget space, but we have also gained some of the necessary confidence that has already been created in the international environment. Regarding both documents, the coalition found a common denominator on essential measures, although within its programmes, believe that differences remain. However, these did not obscure the objective that, due to the gradual stabilisation of Slovenian public finances, it is necessary to move together. The devil took a joke. And the stability of the political environment is still essential if we no longer want to go through the difficult hours of the sudden political collapses and political upheaval and, as a result, the inability to adopt the necessary reforms. We have always put the Social Democrats at the forefront when it came to the 2014 and 2015 budget. In designing both documents, we weighed how to distribute new burdens in the light of tight financial conditions and, on the other hand, by limited means, to protect the foundations of the social state, public education and public health – all those basic social builders that Social Democrats cannot agree to. When we were preparing proposals, we had a key question before us how to establish such a dynamic between the budgetary objectives so that the realization of one would not result in the collapse of the other. And that seems very important to us. The gradual consolidation will take place in 2014 through a reduction of the budget deficit from €1 billion to €1 billion. The current coalition has found that the reduction of the state expenditure for at least the next few years is more or less exhausting, while it must be said that the budget for public sector wage expenditure is the lowest after 2007, despite the salary reform of the same year. It does, however, budget substantial cuts in national consumption for goods and services to nearly EUR 574 million in 2014, compared with the year 2013 when they amounted to EUR 644 million. Budget expenditure in 2014 is rising from €9 billion 400 to €9 billion 640 million in 2014 and aims to mitigate reduced economic activity by businesses and economic spending. We will probably listen to the evidence that when we fill the budget we have focused only on taxes, even though the value added tax raise as an option was enshrined in the Public Finance Balance Act. This year's VAT raise was a necessary measure in the budget hole we inherited. On the other hand, it was deliberately heard that VAT has no impact on exports, which in the current situation is the only one that shows positive trends. At the same time, the Social Democrats have pointed out the need for VAT raising money not only to be used to patch up the budget gap, but rather to be channelled through investment channels to drive or help the economy. With regard to the real estate tax, which provides for approximately 180 million assets in 2014, it is today to hear harsh, harsh criticisms. We are aware of this – signatures against the tax are being collected, there is a call for disobedience on the round tables, but unfortunately none of these critics say that it is a measure that will least burden economic growth. The government has also actively stepped in the fight against the grey economy. This is estimated at between 10 and 24% of the gross domestic product. The drains by which funds from the grey economy bypass the budget are extremely complex and therefore the nature of government measures extends to several areas. Amendments to the law on prevention of work and employment in black, the inclusion of customs services in control and the introduction of a voucher system in personal complementary work – these are just a few measures that we will take. However, we can view the evidence of greater European revenue as a bad conscience for those who, due to incompetence and incompetence, did not know or were able to optimise European funds. The budgets increased state aid in the economy from the funds for economic development and technology, compared to EUR 332 million in 2012 and EUR 372 million in 2013 in 2014, this aid amounted to EUR 433 million, but no one said that. Above all, it seems important to us that the funds are focused on science and the information society, regional development, entrepreneurship and competitiveness. We believe that there is a particular potential in these areas that has not been exploited. At the same time, we have highlighted the need for new jobs to be created to a greater extent, especially with new added value. This is the only right way in the long run if we not only want to get out of the grip of the crisis but also turn the compass towards development. This is also demonstrated by the following data; the funds for investment transfers and investment income totalled 3,3 %, irrespective of the share of gross domestic product in 2013. In 2014, however, 3.7% of GDP is projected. Despite the good intentions of the budget setting up the necessary investment channels, we have stressed through all of this that the acute state of high unemployment and the unenviable social picture will not be able to be solved only by measures to help the economy. That is why, together with the Ministry of Labour, we have set the protection of the socially weak as a priority in the composition of both budgets. Active employment policy is provided with €456 million in 2014. These Ministry funds, however, promise a multiple effect that may not be seen overnight, but it is of paramount importance if we are to successfully tackle unemployment and create conditions for economic growth. All the ministry's efforts in this area have already yielded results, with 5.4% fewer registered first job seekers in this year than in last year's same year. Even more encouraging results can be expected next year when the impact of the law on intervention measures in the labour market and parental protection will begin to be demonstrated. The crisis has also hit public education hard. This has also been used by some political parties with a plan of so-called entrepreneurial education logic, in order to make education more efficient, even more profitable, with some private sector receptions. Reducing the quality of public education at the expense of increasing private participation is something the Social Democrats and the Government have not agreed to with the budget. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has been successful in promoting the elitising of private schools on the basis of changing standards and standards in education. The 2014 and 2015 budgets maintain the quality of public education in the belief that education is not a cost, but an investment. Your Honor! Today we have listened to a lot and will hear about the unrealities of budgets. However, it will be interesting to be evaluated by those who have prepared themselves and actively advocated an unrealised budget for this year for 800 million. All of this I now propose that actions not be judged by themselves. I do not want to discuss all the items of the budget documents in detail here. Budget mathematics, where funds would be taken, where they would be added and what that would mean for an area, is unproductive. It is precisely this logic of debate that leads to easy manipulation of assessments where we need it to defend this or that policy. This, for the most part, serves only to ensure that individual policies wash their hands on their failures and simply do not acknowledge mistakes. Moreover, the discussion on the budget is excluded from the broader context of the relationship between the individual areas, which are strongly linked to the relationship of interaction without regard to the circumstances in which the documents were made, could lead to wrong conclusions. That is why I will stress how they can successfully co-operate together, and this is very important, social security and economic assistance, those areas that have been exposed in the past as the greatest enemy. Thus, the strict saving policy was justified also at the expense of social security as the only and only real solution, just as the logic of entrepreneurship and competitiveness in areas where they would have done more harm than good. Once again, in the 2014 and 2015 budgets, all these objectives, the gradual fiscal consolidation, developmental orientation and social sensitivity, cannot be achieved in a different way than in the synergy through which these objectives can be achieved. All the debates and revelations that we are suffocating with additional taxes, without saying that we are helping the economy and preserving the social state on the other hand, are first-class politics. An explanation in a direction that does not take into account that the budget did not arise in an hermetically closed area, which does not take account of economic indicators forecasts, falls within the category of policy. The recession in Slovenia is still going on and we are going to witness it next year. As a result, the budgets have stopped the trend of radical cutting to the expenditure side, which has proved to be ineffective and has pushed us even deeper into the recession spiral. This year is also crucial in terms of whether we will succeed in the resolution of the banking system, with gradual fiscal consolidation and structural reforms to curb this huge hole that literally chokes Slovenia throughout this recession. We are not saying that the budgets for the coming years are ideal, but in the given circumstances, which I repeat are not based on the current political mood of the Government, but in the broader context of the economic situation and the promises, optimal. The commitment of the President of the Government to the confidentiality and its forecast to be tied to the adoption of the 2014 budget, the Social Democrats, in the context of this, are seen as a move that goes beyond the usual political context. In the wake of the opposition's forecast of non-trust, we will listen again and come to the forefront of political interests. We had the opportunity to hear that it is a matter of disciplining the coalition, that it is the easiest way out of the political embarrassment of politicians, how to increase political power. To sum up how a certain government will prolong its existence in a pre-acquired battle and make power impossible for others more capable. All of this could be believed, my respects, if the times in which budgets are adopted were different. The uncertain economic situation, which some wish to integrate into an uncertain political situation, shows that it is no longer just a confidential matter for the government of Alenka Bratušek, primarily an act that goes beyond a narrow political interest. The last one in Slovenia, as has been confirmed by the international public, is not real in itself, but it is, whether we want or not, about the issue of stability and trust – whether Slovenia is able to overcome its problems alone or indeed, as some call for, we need external assistance. The seriousness of this issue and the related political stability have been put at the forefront by the Social Democrats when it comes to deciding what is a priority for us. Recovery, which does not undermine social security and the ability to unite in key issues, we have seen as the most important material embedded in the 2014 and 2015 budgets. The 2014 budget-related confidant shows that the Government is prepared to bite the sour apple in the given circumstances and overcome the politics of the policy itself. This confidant is therefore not only a confidant to the Government, but an expression of trust to the entire coalition so that we can overcome the difficulties of a difficult financial and economic situation. Social Democrats will support the 2014 and 2015 budgets and thus give the President of the Government of Alenka Bratušek a trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u30	Thank you very much again for your word. As I said before, from the discussions we had in adopting these budgets, amending the 2014 budget and the 2015 budget, there is indeed little constructive willingness or proposals to start improving in the difficult situation in Slovenia. There are too many counts, critics and so on. Sadly, however, this has always been the case, and it will not be different now. We are in difficult times, in 2008, 2009 a great recession began. Accepting budgets at a time when all forms of spending need to be reduced, increasing revenues by force is not easy work. Any way you define yourself, wherever you go, you upset some category. Most of the time, you have to intervene in a way that makes things worse and the standard of any category. We must be aware of this and be aware of this when adopting these budgets, which are in some ways also a reflection of these policies, as patient and constructive as possible. If I were to make a little more concrete about what I said and try to do this consumer work, which we create, a little bit more, because we're talking too little about other things, problems and consumption in general. In 2008, we created €37 billion 264 million of GDP in comparison. In 2009, it fell to 35%, 7.9%, to 35 billion 420 million euros, by 7.9. What happened on the other hand in 2009? The revenue of the national balance sheets has decreased by around €900 million, but we have increased the expenditure of all the national balance sheets by almost €1 billion. In doing so, I would say that if we were talking about the number to round, 35 billion euros, as much as GDP in 2013, we spent a total of 16 billion 150. Thus, the situation started to improve for the first time in 2013. In 2009, the state and general public deficits began to grow sharply; in 2008 we had a plus in the state budget, plus €65 million, due to reduced revenues and increased expenditure of €800 in the state budget. In doing so, as I mentioned earlier, we have spent out of 36 billion in all the cash registers – I would just mention that we must always take into account all the cash we have. One is budgetary. In 2009, or I will talk about 2012, we spent 9.6 billion euros in the budget, we spent 4 billion 851 million euros in the pension fund, of which about a billion and a half euros were in the pension fund budget in these matters. We used 2 billion 0.80 in the municipalities, these are municipal cash registers, and of course two million 338 in health checkbooks. Our problem is that, practically with various measures, with indexations and all these matters, we are not ready to react in times of crisis by reducing consumption. We are unable and practically have 95 percent of the budget, pension, municipal goods cemented with all possible laws and with all the things that affect here. That is why in 2009 we proved to be completely incompetent, even increased public spending compared to the year before, when there was much more GDP, we were unable to guarantee and thus have great problems. Last year, in 2012, we did what we could and how to reduce consumption, because obviously there will be insufficient revenue. We made so-called corrections to all the laws and the savings programme and what we knew was about 400 million less deficits in 2012 than in the year before. It all went with great problems and very slowly. Even now we are in a situation where we are virtually in no condition; wherever we go, we are stuck. It's very difficult to reduce spending, which we're still showing. Our budget for the following year, for 2014, also predicted an additional GDP drop of 0.8%. For the budget as such, there is a vision for 2015, an option that is unfortunately quite far away, this is once again a small increase in GDP to go this way. And the 2014 and 2015 budgets are following some things that we have managed to agree after long arguments that we cannot spend more than we create in our country. We adopted a golden fiscal rule and somehow protected it so that everyone can't interfere with fiscal matters by changing the law at the referendum. The situation as before did not indicate that our consumption would begin to decline. Then we came very low on the credit rating scales, our interest cost has increased to a billion since 2009, when there was a further 525 million euro in four years, and it is necessary to make 500 million additional savings measures to increase interest costs. Our ratings have fallen, the debt cost is close to 7% at the annual level because we have failed to respond in time and reduce our spending. We have 2.9 – one billion is written in 2014 in the budget to achieve, this is with great effort, with perhaps even too much looking for additional revenue with additional taxes and perhaps too little, as has been said, for additional cuts in public consumption. It is likely that it is increasingly difficult to reduce costs and spending because we need some serious interventions to reduce public spending. However, this objective is set here with great difficulty. We are somewhere on the road and with the 2015 budget we are still slightly lowering, to about €877 million, this expected deficit. Personally, I would like to see if we are more uniform, clearer, more successful and faster to reduce this deficit. When we were talking about the golden fiscal rule, I said that we should insist on getting even revenue and expenditure in the budget by 2015. Unfortunately, however, this has not been possible, but this is a state which is and in some ways I think we are in the process. The 2014 budget – a whole bunch of questions were on the committee. Firstly, what are the bases on which any budget or budget adjustment is some mathematics that is more or less automatic? [[...]] The macroeconomic forecasts of Umar are taken into account, as fresh as possible, taking into account the statistics so far, taking into account as many months of the current year as possible. To this end, the individual categories of revenue and expenditure must in some way be corrected and coordinated. It is also the responsibility of the government to propose a change in the budget coming to see that there are too many differences, deviations from income or certain revenues. In the 2014 budget, this was actually the budget of the previous government, three categories showing up. In one category we simply planned too little pension funds for 2014, 188 million is insufficient. If they keep the budget in force for 2014, this would mean that the grant by the State, the state budget in the pension fund in the last month, would be almost nothing and would mean that the pension could not be paid as provided for by law. Second thing. We know that we planned 230 million interest for 2014 and these are things the country will have to pay and we need to fix this. However, we have planned some more expenditure on the corresponding revenue and do not have so much impact on balancing these positions. We have only planned to make more optimistic use of European funds, and here we have increased the budget by 200 million. In the end, we are still up to 9 billion 600, and this is, if I say that 2009-9 million 300 budget expenditures have come in full, that this figure has been exactly the same somewhere, despite the decline in GDP so far, except last year, when we spent 8 billion 998 million euros. So it's under nine billion. However, we are now at 9 billion 600 in 2014, but of course we have also taken into account some of the higher revenues from some categories in this budget. These questions, the plan — longer the plan for 15 or 15, are less accurate. That's a fact. We have also heard on the Committee that certain categories are not recorded as deleted, such as the fourth payment of disproportionates in salaries, are not recorded, are not foreseen, because they do not yet have a legal basis and will have to be covered subsequently, then there is likely to be some balance of this budget, as we still have. But we all have one big problem together, because we don't find the answer to one of the big questions or the unknowns in planning for the next year, that's the bank hole. What and how long will it take? We have some funds planned for this purpose in the 2014 B balance sheet, and we also have a plan for 2015, but we don't know what these amounts will be, and I hope they won't be too big. This stays open. Of course, once we figure that out, it will be necessary to correct the differences if they are too large, including the 2014 budget. However, these are processes that have always been like this and will always be so and have been so. Personally, I think it's a shame we haven't done this before. Here we have fallen into the agreement of the international community of these transfers of bad claims to a bad bank and I have a feeling that we are speculating too much with these numbers. I have in my head the information given by Minister Šuštersič when we discussed the bad bank law. At that time it was said: three to four billion we will issue guarantees in exchange to transfer these claims from banks. Approximately a billion euros were already earmarked for possible recapitalisations, that is to say, to cover price differences. There's been a lot of write-offs. I also hope that there will not be as drastic a thing as one would like to predict. It only bothers me very much because we listen, watch — it is a crisis. We listen, it's hard, especially for those who don't have anything to put in the oven or the mouth, and you're also going to have to keep looking for ways to help them, and so on. But they're not all in this situation. I'm practically the one most disturbed by this thing when somehow we don't have any optimism anymore. No one says about getting out of the crisis that we have opportunities, we will come out of the crisis and it will be better for everyone. For example, I have a problem with young people leaving us. I have a kind of problem with things, and I think it is necessary and our task, even if we accept these budgets, we cannot say that we have done anything. [[…]] To ensure the realization of such ones, much more will have to be done in order to do so. Personally, I think that we will all have to work very hard to find other options and other ways to improve the situation more quickly and turn the circle in a different direction; it is said that we will start to grow rather than fall, that our GDP will begin to grow. But here is one fundamental problem that we have, and I am part of it already, but it is that we do not pay enough attention to how new value is created, what conditions our companies have, what our competitiveness is. I think we are trying something, but we are still making our competitiveness worse, we are down on a scale every year, and we will have to ask ourselves what to do to make the situation better. For example, when I thought about it and when we debated it on the committee, I suggested a few things in this direction to improve the situation. Of course, it would be very difficult to expect one measure that will allow the employment of young people, especially highly educated people, to be permanently and in the long term. [[…]] We made a big mistake, because of some of the so-called losers who paid themselves out, I don't know how much the salaries of some bank directors who never knew how to create, because they've always spent, we've raised the top ladder in our income to 50, which I think is putting our country, if we take that into account, into total absurdity. On the committee, we have heard a calculation that the gross payment of €300 paid by the Austrian entrepreneur amounts to a thousand euro of net income for the employee. With us – I have tried to calculate quickly – we need 2 000 300 euros in payments to get a thousand euros of the same income. It is said that someone who has invested eight years in education or even more will practically work with us only for the country and taxes. No way! I have to say this. To me – this was 2005 – Mr Dragonja from Lek, then Slovenian, said: "Let us fix this scale for God's sake, we cannot normally pay people, we cannot set up the Lek development center here because we are too expensive. They just can't get paid by our people." I'm talking about this work on purpose, which is perhaps more hidden, but we can see how people are leaving. In short, in my mind, let's look for some reserves, at least 500 million should bring this in order to lower income taxes for employees. Only 50% is income, 24,9 or how much first-class contributions are, for this salary is 16,9 – calculate how it is. Approximately 25% are given such a level by what the employer pays. So, for 10,000 euros, the company's costs are worth 2 000 300 euros. Nowhere, no analysis, no experts properly calculate this and say it! I'm so sorry. And here's one of our big problems and problems. In short, we have a problem, it comes from the times we lived before, from socialism, and then forward, forward. All of us here, most of us, know how to move around, determine where we really need to be, we know we're very capable of spending. How to create a new value is devoted to very little attention - in all organs, everywhere. We don't even know enough to listen to an economy that doesn't want anything; it doesn't want subsidies, it doesn't want anything. "Give us the same conditions as those of entrepreneurs who work in markets where our competition is. We don't need anything." This is so difficult to hear that it simply does not come to this and we keep talking about what subsidies and what support will come. Like I said, when I was thinking, I was trying to evaluate these things a little bit. And I said that I would also tell you here what we should do to have more to spend, to start returning credit, or to make things change. I don't think at all that it's possible that things are much smarter than that, but that they can't be reached anymore. However, I think that from our discussions there is not enough to hear a variety of ideas, various suggestions, where to get something to improve – whether it is the opposition or any party, we are all interested in doing well or we must be interested in doing well. I've told you a few times: if we want more, we have to work harder. We're the only country in the world that says that when we sit and eat during lunch, we work. I don't mind if the entrepreneur pays for lunch to have peace for half an hour, but we say we're working at that time, which is great. We should agree that we're actually working 8 hours, if we're working 8 hours, or if we're working 7 hours, we're working 7 hours in this country. This half-hour is 6.25% if we calculate what 0.30 is divided by 8. 6% of working time, if a million people work in Slovenia every day, is 500 000 working hours a day! You'll say because we don't have a job, because companies don't have a job for it yet. If this is the case, it will affect competitiveness so that we will immediately go 10 more cities on the scales. To take a look at Slovenia again and make some investments in Slovenia and to find work and we will be able to produce more. I have estimated that this is in the long term or in a very short time, if we could all agree on this in our country together - of course, no party will suggest this, alone, which I am already retired, I hope something like this. After all, it would be good for everyone. At least, that would mean one billion for the country to increase our GDP, which would be good. I've proposed many times and I've talked about why we have such a circus about jobs. We have so many strange things to do: a student's job, a pensioner can't work how much, every person can earn a minimum wage, we can only do 20 hours and a bunch of things, and so can a different job. I say that work should be work, work by anyone, whatever it takes to get these things away from him, for which he pays, but let it all be equally taxed. There will be no unfair competition in the labour market, but at least EUR 400 million would have more money in the cash register if that were the case. As I said before, I would lower taxes, I would stop subsidies, we couldn't collect public contracts, at least 10% of savings, which is one speculation. A lot, a lot of these irregularities, too complicated a system. How many times have I said to simplify this whole thing, all the bureaucracy we have? The essence of the contract is that everyone who needs public money is obliged to find more competitive offers and choose the one that seems most economically eligible. We also have all the jobs involved, but they are mainly trying to get around these laws, and in the end we are paying more and more. Of course, if we saved up, but if we started returning credits, our rating would go up and we could save a lot of money on interest. We didn't do anything at the banks. Nothing happens in banks as far as business rationalization is concerned. Let's look at the salaries of bank directors who are in loss and state-owned, if we look at everything in order, the number of employees, their regressions and all that stuff, there's no action here in the face of huge losses. Here the owners should reach EUR 300 million to sweep ahead of their threshold and make order. Half too many for this part, which includes, are half too expensive. One more thing I would like to say: that our exercise in public property management, SDH, Slovenian State Holding, what we are going to invent about this, is that it is a single disaster. If Mr Klemenčič had succeeded – I don't know – he probably didn't – in releasing the programme, the auditors also in these state-owned or partly state-owned enterprises, it would have been quick to show where our money was flowing from these companies. And that's not enough. Too bad that's not possible. Probably, in our banks, in our various institutions that live quite well and spend quite a bit here. We've done a lot, a lot of things have been reduced through banks, through different institutions and everything. Outflows of money for services that have not been performed or have gone to various options — those who follow us from behind and command us, including us, how to work here in Parliament and what laws we should adopt to have peace. I still think that this is happening in front of our eyes at a further level of 300 to 400 million euros. These are the only things that should be considered. In short, I want to say and round up this issue: we must be able to react when GDP starts to fall, we must not have everything cemented and we must show our country the way out of the crisis. Like I said, I don't think this bank hole is that big. If it's that big, we've already written it down for about 3 billion, I hear we've already written it off. You won't have to do it again because the banks have had so much loss. One of the biggest banks I've heard the latest report is that within nine or ten months, it produced 293 million losses. This is the Ljubljana Bank and of these 293 million is €345 million of write-offs – if you have heard; there have been more write-offs. If the bank didn't have these claims, we'd have 51 million plus. And if we had long ago passed on all the bad claims in the management of a bad bank, of course, the banks would no longer have any reason for any loss, it would have been managed in one place, it would have made it possible to manage it. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] And we may be a little too determined here, but we're a little over-hearing about those that we don't need. I think there's too much at stake here, as I say, secret. [[...]] [[…]] I've read this today, and somewhere I really do smell like some people defending themselves in every way so that they don't come to the public with this information. I agree that bank data cannot be public. I also agree with the fact that the information that banks have already written off is bad, and the names and surnames of those who have made such loans [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] The Citizens' List supports the draft budget. Let us hope that we will implement it and hope that we will take an even more active approach to the full resolution of the crisis and take appropriate measures to improve the situation in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u31	Thank you. And Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u32	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president, distinguished finance minister, other government representatives! You're very rare here. Welcome and allow me to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Again, I can say I'm disappointed in the introduction. This has already been said that, in addition to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is accepted on certain assumptions, which we have not received today, as well as the representatives of these institutions, Bank of Slovenia and Umarja, were not present. It would be very important for us to talk today about the state of the medical cash register, the state of the pension register, the state of the congregations. We have been visited several times by the rarely-spoken finance minister at the Committee's own meetings, but I don't think it's bad if the finance minister is rarely spoken. But the key message to one question was that we all know we don't know anything. This was a response to what is the public debt or what will be the burden from banks to the budget. Unfortunately, this presentation also went more in this direction, so that it could apply to something else. What bothers me when I present this year's budget, and also in such important documents as the 2014 and 2015 budgets? I am still, and I repeat myself, but once again I say: we do not want to see the picture that we see in our mirror, we do not want to look the truth in the eyes. Allow me to support this with only two informations, which are alarming, which should be very attentive to all those who are present here, as well as to citizens and citizens, in order to make it easier for them to understand each other when they take different measures to change the country. The first is information on public debt. If we see a graph around public debt, it's very eloquent. This graph shows how the public debt in Slovenia has increased in recent years, how public debt was at the level of 5 billion in 2001, how it was used from these 5 billion to 8 billion until 2008, it is said that we had stable public finances at the time of the merger. Surely this debt could be reduced even further in this period, but we have reduced it in terms of the share of GDP to a minimum of 22%. Since 2008, when the crisis occurred, we have simply not responded to this situation. Thus, in the three years of the Government led by Mr Pahor, we have come from 8 billion to 16 billion public debt. This year we will end between 22 billion and 23 billion public debt. Given the year ahead, without speculating how many dota will be from Slovenian banks, we are at 25 billion. Based on the number, we can count on this figure to reach even 30 billion. I'm not going to speculate, 25, and it's definitely going to continue. This means that in all these years, public debt to Slovenia from around 4 000 euros to Slovenia in 2008 came today to 11 000 euros to Slovenia and will be owed to Slovenia from 13 to 15 000 euros in the following year. When we say many times that our public debt to GDP is not so high, we forget that with such a jump where we had a 22% public debt in 2008 and we have managed to reach over 50 by the end of last year – by the end of next year, when the bank yield and the public deficit will be associated with it, this public debt will certainly be overtaken by those fabulous 80%. It can climb even higher. We also pay high interest in Slovenia. These interest rates were 330 million in 2008, this year will be 840 million and next year is planned in the budget already 940 million. I don't hope to speculate where things are going. However, it is more than obvious that if we paid an additional EUR 160 interest on Slovenia per year in 2008 we are paying EUR 420 per Slovenian and that next year we will be 470 euros per Slovenianc, and we are threatened to pay between EUR 600 and 750 per Slovenian in 2015. It means that each family will pay 2,000 euros per year for interest if the family is three-members. 150 euros a month for interest, these are scary numbers. In this context, the problem that we have today, the no rating of the country of the Republic of Slovenia, we are in the ranking of the economically worst countries and therefore pay extremely high interest, 6 to 7% for the bonds we sell. Colleagues and colleagues! Slovenians should no longer be in debt at such an interest rate. If the minister comes from this tour, either American or European, and announces that we have received credits again after 6% to 7% interest rates, know that this is such an interest rate, that I really do not know who will pay them anymore, given these high interest rates. Therefore, what has been politicised here around the arrival of the troika is a very relevant issue. By the way, we've had three in banks since summer because they don't believe us anymore. And we will have to seriously ask ourselves, to what extent will we owe Slovenia in the following year, when there will be a need to borrow between €5 billion and €10 billion abroad, depending on what the bank debt will be, and this is a key issue. As for the steps taken to rehabilitate the country, they have been known for some time. Today, too, the finance minister has presented them and I agree with him that the steps are a bad bank, governance of state property, consolidation of the budget and reform of various subsystems – that this is the way we must go. However, colleagues and colleagues, we screwed up with a bad bank because we did not accept it in the country and introduced it in 2009 when the first calls were that it was the right way to rehabilitate banks. From then until today, this burden in banks is several times greater than it would have been. Many, including those in the coalition today, have sworn last year to recapitalise banks, not to disclose these loans and to solve the problem in banks themselves. This year, we have difficulty believing that the European Commission no longer believes us and that the review of these loans is being delayed, and we will not, in fact, find out what this debt is until the end of the year when the budget documents are obviously under the roof. Let us all really ask ourselves together what we did last year, when constitutional judgements and similar matters also delayed us from entering the banking system. Also interesting now is the adoption of banking legislation, the Banking Act. When we speak in Parliament, it will be necessary to explain to the Slovenes that in the coming years we will be paying for what has actually occurred in banks and, as a result, in the economy before, that we have very great difficulties in making this transfer transparent and how, when these poor loans are transferred, poor claims are subject to the responsibility of those who have signed both credit agreements on the part of the borrowers and on the part of the lenders – bank secrecy must certainly be respected. However, once banking and entrepreneurship have come so far as we decide in Parliament how we will ask abroad for money to cover the stupidities and stupidities that have been committed, citizens and citizens have the right to know that for those loans that have come under the burden of bad claims, we will also know the causes and we will call people to account. Many people around the world have already been called to account. America, which has been mentioned so many times, was promoted in 14 days. After five years, we have been referring to the problem of data secrecy, banking secrecy and the like. So in this part too, we will have to pour ourselves pure wine and, above all, the trust we will have to gain abroad in the field of financial markets, in a country where it will be necessary to get people's will to pay for it. The Slovenian State Holding is another case that will drag another year forward. All governments and politicians have clearly had the wrong path in this area so far and it has become more widely known last year that this needs to be changed, and again it has been the subject of an obstacle. I have a feeling that in this way it is stalling again so that it continues in the field of governance as well as in the area of privatisation. In doing so, it is crucial that we move once to the field of transparency, that we see in the National Assembly the proposals of the strategy of various companies, through the classification of companies, also what to do with which company, which part of the property is worth selling, which we are obliged to keep, how we will recover public debt and so on. Once again, the year has passed, and this is being carried on for a year. When you listen to people, the attitude was that if in the past you tried to make money by owning state property, which some have succeeded, some have also burned in this area, today the key goal is to earn money in the sale of this property. I hope that is not the case and that the commissions will not be again those that will be key drivers of privatisation at this time, and that this will be done in a transparent and public manner. The key problem in this country has already been exposed, this is a problem of willingness to change, to carry out reforms within the country. There is nothing obvious about Slovenia. I have a book with me, which I had as a reading at sea, which is the book From Reforms to Growth, says From Reforms to Growth – a book this year, the current book, written by the Center of European Studies. The book was also based on the European Parliament, where it is in an in-depth and at the same time a very simple way of writing how 19 countries, 19 cases in this book, have gone from a crisis through reforms to growth. Interestingly, among these 19 countries there are 17 members of the European Community and Slovenia is not one of them. Obviously, we have not yet come there or done anything to be worth it in this society. Croatia, however, is also a new member, although the book was published just before Croatia entered the European Community. Norway was also covered as an appropriate case. I'm sorry, none of these countries were reformed. What were they up to, and in what way? They all started right away in the banking system. The banking system was the first to be put in order, and from there it went from country to country. If the possibility of indebtedness was also proven to be rather low because the public debt was rather low, they also went through accelerated activity, public consumption and public debt increases. However, in not one of these countries, public debt has not gone so far as to increase the number of employees in the public sector in these years, but rather to invest in the different areas in which the economy has started. From there, specific examples of what they have done in the fields of health, education, unemployment and the like have been explained from each country. Until we belong to this book, we will be wondering for so long why only Slovenia and Cyprus have anticipated negative growth from all European countries. Because we do not want changes, and all of them; these are not parliamentarians, coalitions, opposition. Here is a very big problem for some to make, make, great promises, which are easier to defend at a time when you are in opposition, but when you get in position, you just admit for once that something was possible in previous years was also well-made and from here on out is no longer a step. And in this part, we have a huge public sector – what have we been able to do? It is clear that the government representative in charge of the public sector will sign an agreement this week to provide staff members with one year's late interest. From this place, I tell him publicly that he must not do so, and if he does, he will damage the state budget by 2 to 3 million or 4 million, as much as the regular interest would be lower. If we are so ill that we can no longer be indebted for 70, 80 million, give this money forward and pay 4% to promise an interest rate of 8 and 8.5%, then I really don't know where we are or otherwise; we can spend this money, but I don't understand the minister who is doing it. In all other sectors, from health care, education, social transfers, local self-government, we need to go on the path of reform, start talking and agree on these reform programmes, in cooperation with people. We have already proposed several times, and we have also actively participated as the Slovenian People's Party in the referendum legislation, under the fiscal rule. Excuse me, you have raised your hand for a fiscal rule with such budgets as for 2015 and 2017 – we will have to postpone that target step a few years further. 2017 is no longer the case. But I guess someone's gonna have to see if we're going in the right direction or not. I think we're going the wrong way and we're going to have to do more. As far as European funds are concerned. Yes, last year, as Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, together with my colleague Žerjav, who coordinated at the Ministry of Economy, made a movement on infrastructure, and since he was a colleague of Montenegro in health, we tried to bring things forward from that dead course every week in coordination. Colleagues, we're in November. We had a deadline to have matters clearly cleared by summer, with those who would not be able to exercise already acquired rights from approved investments, and things would stop in September, no later than October, from signing all the contracts. I hear a team at the Ministry of Economics is in total disarray. Those people who have worked on this for years are gone, and I am very afraid that someone will have to take responsibility here for how many of these contracts will be actually signed this year, because we can still benefit in 2014 and we will no longer be able to sign new contracts. And in this part, I have a very bad feeling about what's going on with these projects. Above all, I have a very bad feeling when you systematically cut funds to the congregations, either through 21. The Article, either through the average funding system, or through the envisaged taxes, and you take the investment potential of the municipalities that have proved to be the best users of these funds in these years. There are projects, there are people and operational groups that can do. I think this is where European funds are drawn – I hope that these numbers will be fulfilled. What you're doing, what I'm still monitoring, how things are going on, and it gives me a lot of doubts that Mr Stepichnik's team will simply not do these things, which will be crucial in this matter. For the old woman was dissolved, and the new woman had not yet met. As far as the economy's concerned. From the same minister, last year of the opposition Member, we really listened to what we had done to start the economy at each meeting on these issues, but we had something to say; we reduced taxes, introduced investment reliefs and similar matters. I don't know what he can brag about today. By having new taxes in all areas, not hearing craftsmen, how do they point out that such an unstable environment as they have today is impossible for normal work? To make it clear and public, as Mr Akrapovic said, that he had everything ready to invest and stopped by the wrong government policy? That craftsmen, entrepreneurs, loud and clear are telling us to work in an environment where you can't prosper and decide to go out? The craftsmen need a little more time because they have assets here because they have a business environment. Young people who respond quickly have already taken their steps. In this part, the policy of new taxes, the policy of weakening the entrepreneurial environment from year to year, is simply a wrong policy. Nothing has been done in the field of public investment. I can hear more who's in the way of things. Nothing is done in the area of flood safety. When we talk about self-sustainment and food security, we learn that the second year is 30 million new taxes — what is on the other hand, I do not know. This does not give hope, does not give faith, what we need from Slovenia and Slovenia. And when we talk about going together, going into dialogue with people, I think it's a mockery of those who just today have brought almost 58,000 votes "no" to some politicians, some decisions that weren't so valuable that government representatives came to explain them, not even when there were 150 mayors on the pile; that this was a member of the government, not someone who had no authority to say anything; they were not worthy of craftsmen to speak in a timely and similar way. The fact that at the declaratory level, when it sounds good, when the whole thing goes almost to the stage of a fairy tale, we are talking about this cooperation, will have to be proved by action. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are ready to talk, including to take over the burdens of the crisis, but not in such a way that the only way we are leading is to be a new tax and a new tax. If you follow this path, you will find that another 400, 500 million new taxes are required in March or April. That's not gonna work. You're gonna have to be more creative. That is why we will not support this budget. I believe he'll be accepted. As for the confidant, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, would be much more pleased if members of the coalition could vote on this confidant one year after the start of the term, is said in March when these cruel truths that I have told are known even more in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u34	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all of you! In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that both the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, adopted on the home working body, are appropriate. The budget is a fundamental act for the functioning of the State. This document shows the income and expenditure cut by economic, functional and institutional classification. So how much of the funds will be allocated to each area or institution. However, both proposals have already received long insights on the working body, all in order to survive as much as possible for a given area. The main objective of the budget documents prepared is to stabilise the tax environment or raise tax culture, to offset revenue and expenditure all the way back to 2017, and to stabilise the country's debt in the long term below 55% of gross domestic product. The stability programme contains key parameters, namely reducing the structural deficit below 3% by the end of 2015. On the basis of the macro-economic origins of Umarje and the budget already adopted for 2014, the correction of the expenditure side to EUR 1 billion of deficits amounts to EUR 2.9 of GDP. With regard to both draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, there is no doubt that a new element on the income side has resulted, namely the real estate tax, which has been eased by the allies of the older population at least by the transitional period and by the special treatment of the socially weak, that is to say those entitled to social assistance, those entitled to the protection allowance and persons with disabilities. Both proposals show continued belt tightening in all areas. We have been, we have been, and we will receive all, both the active population and the pensioners. Given that we are also advocates of older people, their social and health rights, we are also pleased with the two draft budgets for the coming years. In the 2014 draft amending budget, the country's commitments to the pension and disability insurance community are planned at EUR 1.46 billion, representing a 14.3% increase according to the 2014 budget. In 2015, however, 30 million less than in 2014. The legal obligation of the Capital Society of EUR 50 million remains for the coordination of pensions, with the Democratic Party of the Pensioners absent and will not give up. With regard to investments for the construction of new homes for the elderly and the disabled, we simply find that they are not, and there are no other adjustments of infrastructure for the ageing Slovenian population. The DeSUS Group also notes that health care resources are falling by around 10 million in 2014 and 6 million in 2015 according to the starting point of 2014. The reduction is based on a thorough cutting of investments, notably the UKC in Ljubljana, the protection of unprotected persons, the operation of emergency medical care, transplantation of organs. There is also less money for the functioning of the health inspectorate and public health. In the DeSUS Group, we expect that this reduction will not reflect on the level of health safety and social justice and that this manca will, in fact, maintain an effective, successful, quality healthcare system despite cuts. Does the increase in the tax burden mean the main charge of the budget for next year? The answer in our parliamentary group is yes. The country intends to collect more than €6.87 billion in taxes, which is more than €560 million this year, to which most of the income, corporate income tax, value added tax, excise duty and a new real estate tax contribute. In order to achieve the public financial objectives, it will also be saved on public servants and the reduction of investment expenditure. As stated, the labour market situation is expected to stabilise over the next two years. The fact is that both budgetary acts are extremely austerity-oriented. The measures and effects will also be visible soon and will show up as soon as enforcement starts. Only then will we be able to evaluate the work of the Government with certainty and in full reality. The Slovenian economy faces gradual stabilisation with measures for the stability of public finances and the rehabilitation of the financial system. Recovery mainly results in a decline in private and investment consumption. In short, population and country spending will also be marked by the intensive rehabilitation of banks and the continued consolidation of public finances. The harmonisation of fiscal and monetary policy has decreased and is not stimulating for the relaunching of private sector growth, as funding conditions have not yet improved and fiscal policy is further restrictive. Thus, the economic and social picture of a large part of the population has deteriorated and this part of social transfers is exacerbated by new austerity measures. In our parliamentary group, we are closely monitoring the situation and will continue to monitor it in the future, as there are prospects for change in the area of pension protection, but we will work very hard to be careful in this crisis period and will not allow additional burdens on both active and pension workers. We also assess in the area of European drawing-up in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners that it is a positive direction to detect movements. Therefore, we also expect players in this area to be absolute winners or to get close to the highest possible limit for achieving the effectiveness and effectiveness of obtaining these funds already allocated. However, in the area of the tax and judicial system, we certainly welcome success, as some of the results are already visible. There is no doubt that systems need to be upgraded for this purpose in order to provide more efficient services or solutions within the jurisdiction of Durs and the courts. In the structure of budgetary expenditure, the largest proportion is expenditure on pension protection, education and social security, followed by expenditure on transport infrastructure, agriculture, labour market policy, state policy, defence and protection, and internal affairs and security. In our Group of Members, we stress the need to make sure that more rational planning of expenditure is needed so that we do not further increase the debt. With the proposed budgetary acts for 2014 and 2015, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has indicated strategically planned moves to get out of the crisis with a view to ensuring inter-human solidarity, social and health security and economic and social balance in all areas. And time will be the one to show whether the government's decisions are right. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are aware that if the adoption of the two budget acts was refused, a situation would arise that would allow work to be destabilised in the country. We would put a stop to the whole public sector. They would lose their salaries, pensions, social transfers, health services and so on. That is precisely why we have in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, so to speak, deadlines in deciding on both budgets and in deciding on a new property tax. Since the adoption of these acts, the operation of this government and the responsibility of the party DeSUS, or the DeSUS Group, cannot be assumed. That is why we will support both draft budgets for 2014 and 2015 and thus demonstrate our trust to the Government of Alenka Bratušek. Our Group expects this Government to successfully complete its mandate, without major shocks for us and for the entire population of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u36	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government! Allow me to welcome you all together in the name of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats. Before us, colleagues and colleagues, it is extremely demanding, especially the responsible week, a week of decisions that will be judged by citizens and citizens of this country. It is not true that the opposition has always had a completely different position than the coalition when it comes to the consideration of budgetary documents. Let me remind you, at the time of the previous Slovenian government, which was Slovenian – it was not yours and not ours, but it was Slovenian – we also adopted a budget document together. And we, the Christian Democrats, are not interested in the confidant or the infidelity of the government. We are interested in Slovenia, so we hope that when we vote on these documents, we will have all the people we represent after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I still have the hope that we will all vote together in conscience, not for our own interests, not for the interests of the coalition or for this government, we must have the interest of Slovenia. When the President of the Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, speaks about cooperation, networking and so on – of course, we are the first to cooperate and connect. But let me go back to the opening of the discussion of the budgetary documents, at the 45th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which was held on 8 October 2013, when the President said, inter alia, in presentation of the 2014 and 2015 budget memorandum, "Why is our budget different from yours? Because he's not calling the threesome, he's trying to do everything he can to solve our domestic problems at home. Because we're paying off your debts. Between 2004 and 2008, Slovenia's gross external debt doubled from 20 billion to 40 billion. Doubled it! The taxpayers will pay for this when the banks are rehabilitated. The first Janša government did not react to this at the time, and the debt that was primarily owed to businesses and banks, the population being less indebted in Europe, today will be paid by taxpayers." End of quote. I do not want to hunt anyone, ladies and gentlemen, but when the President of the Government speaks, every word has a strong message. I believe that citizens and citizens of this country are not sheep and that the President of the Government, Alenka Bratušek, cannot drive and deceive them with statements that we are guilty in the 2004-2008 mandate, the then coalition, of increasing Slovenia's gross external debt, because the President of the Government is so bent that it does not show a table or histogram showing the structure of the increase in gross external debt. And this structure shows that, in the years we are told by the President, banks and businesses in the external financial market have been most indebted to business banks. However, the President does not say what we should have done at the time. Should we legally prevent borrowing outside companies and Slovenian commercial banks? But we're in a free economy. Or has Madam President been involved in some previous social policy system? And ours, your budget. Apparently, Madam President Alenka Bratušek is privatising the budget of the Republic of Slovenia somehow. So, amazing how misleading and humiliating citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I cannot understand these statements and this eternal mantra that we owe Slovenian taxpayers so much in the 2004-2008 mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, years ago, I was watching a performance by Mr Steve Ballmer, the CEO of Microsoft Corporation, and some people think he's a freak. He called a conference and several thousand software developers were in the hall when he came to the stage, and I will start shouting in his style: "Developers, developers, developers, developers, developers, developers!" He sweated his shirt, his vocals were almost out, and he's still like, "Developers, developers, developers, developers!" What did he mean by that? He wanted to say that software developers are the most important. Unfortunately, I do not have his abilities, but here, colleagues and colleagues, today I would like to scream and scream before you: economy, economy, economy, economy! Once again: economy, economy, economy, economy! Maybe someone would get caught up in something. If we do not create a favourable environment for the economy, then there will be no pensions, ladies and gentlemen. Then we'll have free health care and we'll pay for the treatment. But we have not heard anything about the economy today at the presentations, except that we will have half a billion euros to promote the economy. Who's gonna get it? Minister Stepišnik is not here to be asked. We are convinced that the economy is crucial and that the economy is a key budgetary resource. And as I said in the introduction, we are in favour of cooperation, we also went to the presentation of the budget documents because we were invited by Mrs Alenka Bratušek. But of course, when the budget documents were adopted long ago in the government. Well, we could have just been listeners. We Christian Democrats have answers for the future. We in New Slovenia understand and build an economic policy on the social and market economy in which freedom, competition, responsibility and solidarity form a whole. It is a test of linking the principles of a free market economy and social policy efforts to achieve a just society. Christian democracy has proved in Europe that politics can also be good and not just a struggle for power, that politics can also be for Christians. We're for lower taxes. We come from a knowledge of common sense that it is necessary to create at least material prosperity in order to collect taxes. We note that Slovenia is a victim of socialist and social-democratic concepts of redistribution and equalization of events. This has created excessive expectations and dependence on social transfers that undermine economic creativity. We are also Christian Democrats for a smaller public administration. Public administration is understood as a service for providing quality services to citizens and businesses, and public administration is not intended to destroy the potential of citizens, but rather to promote them. Since the public administration is financed mainly from taxes, we demand a rational use of public funds and visible results. We can afford only as extensive a public administration as we can afford it. We are Christian Democrats for the withdrawal of politics from the economy. The economic activity is primarily designed for the human person and the family to take responsible care of their material situation. The economy should be guided by the principles of freedom, efficiency, responsibility, competition and solidarity. All of this cannot be achieved without responsible freedom, private enterprise initiative, accessibility and inviolability of private property and the free market. We are also for creative, honest and diligent citizens. We also wanted to tell representatives of the Government, but unfortunately we were not invited to participate in the future of Slovenia. Your Honor! The budgets for 2014 and 2015 are poor, underdeveloped and incomplete, and we do not support them in New Slovenia. The content of both budgets shows that apparently the Government does not have a strategy for the development of Slovenia. It is clear that both budgets are drawn up only in a manner and in order to demonstrate the budgetary deficit below the required limit of 3 % of the gross social product. In order to pursue this objective, a number of budgetary expenditure, as well as certain revenue, which already exists on an appropriate legal or other basis, has been omitted from the budgets or will be adopted this year. If we remember the commitments made by the President of the Government itself, this gradual balance of the budget will be achieved by one third of the measures representing an increase in revenue and two thirds of the reduction in expenditure of the expenditure side. The government doesn't keep these commitments of its own. This, of course, means a strong fall in credibility of the government of Alenka Bratušek. The reduction of the budget deficit below 3% of the gross social product tries to reach the government in the main part by increasing revenues, more specifically by overburdening the economy and the population, with increasing tax and other burdens. Remember what measures the Government of Alenka Bratušek has already taken; it has raised VAT rates, raised court fees, introduced a new lucky tax, frozen the coordination of the income scale and income relief, and increased the level of corporate income tax and so on. The most drastic measure is expected to be taken, unfortunately, at this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, this is the introduction of a property tax, which is expected to bring an additional inflow of more than €100 million into the state budget. At the same time, if this tax is accepted, another of the last airstrips will be closed to the Slovenian economy. There's a lot more I'd like to say. I'm just going to point out one more thing that doesn't seem so problematic, but it's unhygienic. Colleagues and colleagues! You know that with this May, the European legislative package, the so-called 'two pack', came into force, a twin who orders national governments to send the budgets for next year to the European Commission. The government did it. We, the opposition Members, do not know whether we have already received any reply, i.e. the European Commission's opinion on the 2014 budget, and if not the other, would at least be hygienic if today the President of the Government would speak at least one word about this. I always advocate and believe that we will never be the United States of Europe and that Slovenia within the European Union will remain a sovereign state and that what will be adopted by the National Assembly will remain. Of course, there will be some bitterness if the National Assembly, or this coalition, predicts the adoption of the 2014 budget, is followed by a negative opinion from the European Commission on budgetary documents. That's why it seems to me that somehow in this respect, the government, to say the least, behaves unhygienically. At this point, I conclude, but allow me to give the Slovenian government the Congressional Resolution of New Slovenia, which was adopted yesterday. Copying is not prohibited, use is desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is addressed to the Italian and Hungarian national groups, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The preparation of the 2014 budget rebalancing and the 2015 draft budget can symbolically be compared to the planning of the rural economy in a virtual period and environment, when the crop is decimated by a heavy drought, they have taken all stocks, storms and hailstorms, and yet we need to anticipate how much food is needed for livestock, seeds for sowing and whether the resulting material damage will require the restoration of the agricultural mechanism. It is also clear to layman that such a task, to accurately assess the necessary financial resources and the course of further activities, is almost impossible. If we truly face the reality of the situation in Slovenia in terms of public finances, when the situation of banks is more than heavy and full of strangers, pension, social, health and other financial instability, and unfortunately the economic trend is still negative, we must recognise that in such circumstances the preparation of a stable and sustainable budget is very difficult. In order to do this, we should draw a line under all the problems that burden us in one way or another and put on a more realistic and optimal system of public finances, economic activities, tax policies and so on. In practice, however, this is not possible, as we are all aware of it, so we must accept the fact that an optimal budget is currently almost impossible to prepare in Slovenia. This realization has been met by virtually all governments in recent years, regardless of how they have interpreted it in public. Under the circumstances, we can only assess what virtually all political factors and stakeholders have done in recent weeks, whether the proposed 2014 budgets and the 2015 proposal in terms of basic expectations are still acceptable to some extent. There is no objective estimate. These would not even be if the situation were much more favourable. Even in the coalition itself, some were quite critical, probably in many ways those who claim that there is too much additional burden on the income side of the economy and the most vulnerable part of the population. On the other hand, it is difficult not to support the argument that the values of the social state must be maintained at least to a minimum, despite all the difficulties. In their own way, these two aspirations, which are similar to any budget, should be fundamentally contradictory in the USA, Germany or elsewhere. Therefore, the most important task of every government is to make the situation even more so in the light of the circumstances that it is trying to find a sustainable balance. Whether this is evident from the proposed budgets, we cannot say for sure in our Group of Members. Nevertheless, we cannot overlook the fact that it has tried to do much to meet the 3% deficit criterion by the end of 2015, in accordance with the Golden Fiscal Rule adopted. At the same time, in our Group, we also believe that certain laws, which are very important in terms of the budget, such as, for example, the property tax, the Income Act, the payment of pay-as-you-go imbalances, despite the coalition's support, leave a lot of dilemmas and questions open. Let me stress that we are also fully aware of the financial and economic situation within the national communities. By the way, it is because of the difficulties we have been facing that has not increased financial resources on so-called nationalities in recent years since 2008. On the contrary, in some areas, the financial frameworks have fallen sharply. For example, in the area of culture two years ago, we have a heavy 8%, and elsewhere, especially in national media. Our organisations and institutions shall operate transparently, sending all reports and accounts in accordance with the law to the competent national authorities. There is no money abuse within indigenous national communities. The need to restructure certain activities is also reflected in this area, which is a normal consequence of the circumstances and nature of the work. I only mention this because, unfortunately, in the last period, which is probably also due to an increasingly deep social crisis, some unjustifiably, by misusing public data, poor and materially impossible comparisons and without reasonable arguments, accuse the said national communities and their representatives of, in their opinion, the misuse of public money. I repeat that tendency pressures have no real basis, which has also confirmed certain investigations in recent months. Of course, any such unargued and tended accusation, the consequences of which we already feel strongly in the Hungarian national community, introduces instability and conflict into the multinational environment, which is by no means right. On this occasion, I do not wish to deepen this issue, but I have only mentioned it in order to make it public and clear in this position also the eligibility of the budget money devoted to the existence and development of indigenous and other national communities and other minorities. Despite the general dilemmas and the observations I have mentioned, we must reiterate our satisfaction that, as has been the case in the past, the current government has already stressed and adopted a commitment to maintaining the level of protection of national communities, including, at least nominally, with the level of funding from the state budget based on this year's level. We have assessed together, together with the Government, that there are virtually no reserves in this area. With any intervention under this heading, the savings in the quantitative impact of the stabilisation of public finances would not have had, but due to the high level of vulnerability of those communities, it could cause irreparable damage in their functioning, and in particular in terms of activities in favour of the conservation and development of the national communities. In view of this agreement, we were initially very surprised in the Hungarian and Italian national communities when, in the proposal for a rebalancing, in the original proposal for 2014, under the heading of the Office of Nationality, the amount was reduced by our situation to an extremely high 7,5 %. However, under the 2015 draft budget, the reduction was even higher by an additional 2%. In the area of cultural activity, it was proposed that the funds should be reduced by 1%, which is not negligible in 2011 in view of the above-mentioned 8% reduction, but in view of the deterioration of the public financial situation, we considered this to be acceptable. On the Commission for National Communities, we discussed both budgets where representatives of organisations and institutions of national communities made it clear that the reduction of certain items under the quota of the Office for Nationality would be catastrophic in terms of the existence and development of both communities. Fortunately, in the context of our Group's position, I am now pleased to point out that the Government has listened to our warnings to a large extent. Thus, in the 2015 Supplemental Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the lower line of the Office of Nationality is corrected and the reduction in 2013 is around 1.8%. Therefore, the proposal will also receive our support. As far as 2014 is concerned, the proposed rebalancing on this item has also been changed and a 2.4% reduction is now envisaged in relation to 2013. I've rounded the decimals. Let me be clear; since, after the meeting of the parent committee, the bad information initially came to the public, I would stress that, in view of the current budget, i.e. for 2013, in the new proposal, the reduction in the line of the Office for Nationality is 2.4%. So it's not about raising funds, it's just an increase compared to the original proposal for a rebalancing that would reduce the volume of money, as I said, by a drastic 7.5%. We note that in view of the truly difficult financial situation, organizations and institutions of the national communities are so deprived of nominally 2.4% and 1.8% respectively. While this will mean a certain reduction or transformation of operations, we hope that the systemic activity of indigenous national communities will not be significantly compromised. I briefly mentioned the area of culture and activities within the Office for Nationality. Let me also express our expectation that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will also provide the necessary resources for the smooth implementation of educational activities within the institutions of the Italian National Community and bilingual education in the case of Hungarian nationality. Unfortunately, however, we note that there have still been no significant changes in the area of improving the system of creating the economic basis of indigenous national communities, although it is always recalled. This is not just a direct budgetary issue, but in terms of the preservation of our communities and the nationality of the mixed area, it is of paramount importance. Finally, despite the problems and doubts raised with regard to the proposed budget, I should like once again to express my satisfaction that the Government and I have been able to find a common denominator in our specific area to overcome the problem of financing the national community, for which we sincerely thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The text is by the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Alojzij Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Respected citizens and citizens, President of the Government, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Minister, representatives of the Government, fellow Member and fellow Members! First of all, I would like to explain that I will submit my views on the proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and the supplementary budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. I think it makes sense, after all, that the Commissions and the Committees of the National Assembly took the picture. It is also understandable that much of the debate will continue in the coming, coming year. Two more circumstances can't be overlooked. Firstly, a few months ago, we discussed, and we also adopted, the 2013 budget rebalancing. Notable social and economic changes have not occurred since then, perhaps an internal political shock of weak strength that is already behind us. But another special circumstance lies ahead. I am thinking of the final part of the review of the quality of the assets of the banks and the conclusion of the so-called stress tests of the key Slovenian banks. Once we know what has happened and what has happened in this sector, the figures will show the extent of the damage and the quickly possible, necessary and urgent measures that the country must take. It will be without optimism and no pessimism the end of a story. For the majority, for the vast majority who already know this, it will be confirmed that there is no return to the point, at the point there around 2007. It will not be possible or possible to continue from the point before the crisis. In this context, the budget can only be dealt with for a longer period of time, not just for one or two years. Nor can it be squeezed into the subsystem, simplifying, social activities without being confronted and linked to the economy, the financial world, employment, intellectuals, young people and pensioners. In short, with a resident society of those responsible, we will write a new social contract sooner or later. I'm sure of it. With this premise, of course, concepts are different. I will continue to try to show obvious differences in some concepts, in some respects, especially because this is also the subject of the budget debate, and let me say in advance, not the difference in results. It's too early to judge, expectations can be impatient, reason can't. In six months, it's impossible to reap what's still lurking. The concept, which was seriously practiced by the previous government, was based on cuts in public consumption and the assumption that fiscal policy without a reserve is the most responsible for the situation in that country. In this respect, it was claimed that the tightened belt had no alternative. Later, and even before that, the profession in Slovenia placed banks and the economy at the centre. During the first years of this millennium, the economy grew relatively fast, but it also accelerated its debt to the extent that the defence mechanism was kneeling against possible crises. The immune system, colleagues and colleagues, simply did not hold up. A new problem of public finances has emerged, which has so far been unknown to Slovenia. Companies and banks can no longer be indebted, the state, that is, the budget, starts with recapitalisations, loans, state aid. For the last time, the state as the owner of the extreme force is stepping up, interest on the financial markets is going to the sky, and businesses are going underground. That the spiral does not have a barrier, it becomes more or less clear to everyone, including the European Union, even the European Central Bank, in the International Monetary Fund, perhaps first. And two new things shall be added to the word of saving: reasonable and moderate. In line with this assessment, this government is also acting and will present this direction in the stability programme to the European Union this year. In practice, this means that in fiscal efforts in the process of consolidation of public finances due to the effects of multipliers, the two measures, the reduction of expenditure and the introduction of those taxes which have relatively minor negative effects on economic growth are combined. The opposition objections to this solution are simple and are also appropriate to each other in opposition. First of all, the state only knows how to tax. That is why, secondly, the social state is at risk and thirdly, most frequently heard, the budget is unrealistic because tax revenues are unrealistically planned. First of all, the last statement that the budget is unrealistic. Forecasting budgetary revenue is a very serious professional work. An assessment of the budgetary revenue for a certain period shall be prepared by the Ministry of Finance using generally recognised models used to forecast key categories of revenue. This comes from different sources, from different bases, from the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Customs Administration, the macro-economic indicators of the calculation of Umarj – but I did not count all but the key ones. Planning, forecasting is a risky business. Who knows, he's not one of the proponents of conspiracy theory. Two cases: in 2007 the economy grew much more than predicted, and only two years later, in 2009, a fall of 8% surprised everyone. Such a reduction in economic activity, especially in the euro area, was not announced in time by any institution, whether domestic or foreign. In critical times of forecasting, an unreliable and unreliable indicator says a statement by Wall Street's leading analyst, who says in 2007, saying, "I don't know what happened, but it cut down on all the foundations." And also at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Director Umarja says what I hope has not been heard. He says, "This is the scenario that we find most likely, but of course there is a great danger that the economic situation will change, that it will be slightly different from what we expect." So he says, "Great danger." Let me put it another way: the average error of originally planned budget revenues in terms of realisation is 4.2%, the colour of the government does not play any role, it is not important. And now to the first question: which taxes and other revenue of the budget are the targets of criticism? First, the value added tax. In general, it is considered to depend on final consumption. This trend is declining and there are at least three reasons for this; the wage policy, to remind me of the ZUJF, as well as this year's reductions in the public and part of the private sector, then the situation in the labour market, is less employed, and the third time, the disposal of purchases of goods of a lasting nature, cars, white technology, furniture, key purchases, which we call a precautionary saving effect. It is somehow estimated that the higher value added tax rate will compensate for the other drop in consumption. However, the VAT did not, despite the prepared burial teams, bury the economy and not raise inflation in the sky, as has been said. The real estate tax is a tax that has been considered the most desirable for at least 15 years or at least 20 years until it appears. It is indeed a tax with many strangers, with many comments, but no one in the professional circles has rejected it as necessary. The institutions will be put to great test in this tax. Undoubtedly, the tax may be easier to accept than to enforce than to collect taxes. As someone wrote: "From now on we are a land of real estate." Third time – European funds. Of these, it is only a matter of urgency, although there is no doubt that first-class funding is linked to investment projects, at least in this budget, especially for local communities. I'm not sure we have full control of the pumping. The gap between the promises recorded and the realization of this doubt confirms me. This trend lasts even this year and is relatively parallel to investment expenditure. With a little cynicism, the budget at this point is automatically balanced. Government only hint; centralize operational functions in this area. Do it, it'll be a good act. Viewed in full, as regards the tax and other revenue of the budget. Since some parameters that help calculate tax returns are still dwindling, it is possible for any of the types of tax revenues that I have been talking about, perhaps for some, to say that the bottom has not yet been reached. However, in recent months several policies have been introduced, developed and launched, particularly in the context of the fight against the grey economy. Let me mention and recall the tax box, the tax on unannounced income, the so-called tax gap, the synergy from the expected merger of Durs and Curs into the financial administration and could also be listed. Those who can collect taxes will have to do so effectively, but they will only count the results and we expect these results in the coming year. I'm not very skeptical in this area, there's a lot of room. What is the focus of budgetary discussions? Measures to promote growth. Most of the words, most of the claims, most of the judgements, even very different in terms of content, were raised in the debates, but some of the initial assumptions or problems in this regard are probably not disputed. First of all, it is a very complex, very complex, very complex area and the structure of public expenditure, naked and without all additional information, which does not allow for a general conclusion on economic policy. Homely every expenditure we make has economic consequences, especially in transitions and especially in crises – and we both live in it. Changes in public financial expenditure should therefore also be interpreted with particular care. The third question is, of course, the order of steps we need to take, a priority. At the same time, we are faced with a response to the decline of businesses, often due to the adjustment to the changed difficult situation, then with the social problem due to the unemployed and the promotion of exports and could still be listed. We are faced with less economic growth than investment in walls or restoration of city sights if I am with both feet in reality, with a dilemma, or, for example, ongoing expenditure on education and development. What am I trying to say? Walking on the balance of revenue and budget expenditure alone is not enough. Not only details, but also key data are in balance sheet B, in the account of financial claims and investments. It shows that the first steps are different, changed and, I am sure, better policies. These are loans to private companies through the Bank’s SID mechanism, the rehabilitation of businesses and the promotion of technological development projects through financial engineering. This is to ensure that funds are increased to make payments of guarantee and guarantee obligations and to increase capital shares in companies, i.e. state aid granted. Dear Members and Members! In Slovenia we have only a poor third of competing companies and based on these our development. A rapid turnaround after the economic crisis gained new dimensions last year is not expected. That is why the economy is looking forward to an encouraging policy. From the country in particular, the regulation of business conditions, as well as the fact that the state and, in particular, its policy does not lose the opportunities that are in front of us. I am thinking about the loan and development funds, the combination of budgetary, banking and European funds, we are hearing and discussing eco-regimes, and I think that all of this is already happening in part. There are more ways to increase lending. Well, we know something. The question is, what do we not know? In this place, when we talk about the economy, the word rationalisation is a constant, is a way of thinking and is a way of working. Something similar, unfortunately, is not yet in most public sector organisations. There's a lot of questions. Are all institutions really necessary to meet civil needs? What are their own purposes, sometimes set up and maintained in stock? Is management properly trained and motivated? And are they interested and motivated employees? And so on and so forth. A lot of work for the minister who wrote in this area a book of all books, at least after reading, Pay Reform. And in the end, however, about the topic which has surprised the Members of Positive Slovenia in a special way, about the observations, about the clues, here and even about the calculations quite a bit, about the fact that instead of the social state came misery. However, due to extreme sensitivity, I must state some facts which are generally recognised and which are often ignored when dealing with this topic. At the turn of the 20th century, industrial countries first develop the latter through other very similar social programmes. Let me list some of them to surprise you: accident insurance at work, disability pensions, widows, sick people, unemployment benefits, support for affected families, all of this before World War I. In this regard, the ideological resources of the social state are very different and do not belong to just one political option, so that I am not misunderstood in this place. Today, in most social literature and research, there is consensus, and this seems very important to me to stress that the social state is the largest and simultaneously irreversible civilizational achievement of the 20th century. You know, at the threshold of the 20th century, half the budgets went for military spending, after World War II, and today only 10% and less. Of course, the social state is not without its weaknesses. One of these is that it is difficult to control the scope of the requirements, and problems are increasing. Secondly, especially in crises, the volume of money aid is greatly strengthened, but I forget there that the biggest investment is the effective financing of education, research, health care, and for those involved, of course, I would list and always miss out. Friedman's natural unemployment, as called the so-called neoliberal option, has, without calling, replaced the conclusion that countries with a developed and modern social state are significantly easier and faster to cope with the crisis. There is no shortage of this evidence in Europe. It is therefore good for citizens and citizens to know that the decommissioning of the social state for this government is not even an extremely possible measure. Colleagues and colleagues! The budget we accept this time is broken for two different but very closely related reasons. First of all, it is broken because it means an establishment of the budgetary logic of the former government, which has embraced the concept of budget cuts, which was generally at work in Europe at the time. This logic is well remembered mainly because of political and social conflicts when adopting various rules of the NUJF deep into the night, even deeper than this time. Even more so, he is broken because this time the Prime Minister of the Government tied a trustee to the government to his reception. Three government presidents have so far proposed a vote on a confidential one, but this is the first time that a confidential person has been bound by the adoption of the budget. Why do I say that these two reasons why I justify the breakage of this budget are connected? Because we are going to vote in confidence – because I believe we will vote in confidence, I am sure of that – we also confirm the government policy facility from cutting budget spending to a meaningful combination of austerity and tax measures to consolidate public finances, simply to get out of the crisis. That this establishment is needed in politics proves at least two, and both have already been mentioned by the President of the Government in some way in the opening speech. The first proof is the fact that the famous threes are no longer so to speak. More specifically, there is no policy of over-cut wages, pensions and social transfers. Since the two separate analyses, I am thinking that the International Monetary Fund from a bad year ago and the recent analysis of the Economic Commission for Europe have found that the rapid and simultaneous reduction of budgetary expenditure in all European Union countries is only deepening the crisis to deepen the recession and it is pointless to insist on dealing with the crisis only with cuts in this area. But the other reason is the results. As the President has already said, she took over the government at a time when economic growth fell by 4.5% in the first three months of this year. The number of unemployed has increased to just over 122 thousand. In short, I stress that such expert analyses of the International Monetary Fund and the Economic Commission, which are reputable to the institution and for which the reputation of the current opposition parties has been guaranteed in the past, are the result of a revised policy and clearly point to the Government's right decisions to make a serious establishment in the resolution of the economic crisis and public financial problems. Although there are other reasons for the Prime Minister's request for a vote on a confidential one, I believe that today we will talk more about political stability and the consequences of a vote or a non-voted confidant. I'm giving priority to this particular aspect. In view of the fact that we will also vote on a confidential vote to confirm this different approach of the Government to resolving the critical economic crisis. Let me repeat, the decline in economic growth has declined from March to today. The same kind of unemployment. And it will certainly sound a bit grotesque if the untrustworthy are defended by those who have given the government the worse economic results we have today. Finally, I'd like to remind you of two more. That two out of three confidential votes ended with the collapse of the government and the new elections. For the first time, this happened to Drnovšku at a time when Slovenia was still a success story and it seemed that without the economic and social consequences it could afford some political games. The second time this happened to Borut Pahor in 2011, when many believed and claimed that the new elections could bring about significant policy changes. Today we know that we no longer have the comfort of a country called the success story, and we know that the new elections are no longer a guarantee of change for the better. Therefore, all of you are urged to include reason and support the confidence of the Government, under which economic indicators have started to turn out better and, as the President of the Government has said, are not turning spectacularly, but turning to better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u42	Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Ministers, Secretary of State and Secretary of State! The 2014 and 2015 budget represents the economic, financial and social policy of one country. And we cannot view this budget as a normal budget, as a budget that would be in some good times, but also as a budget that Slovenia is supposed to bring out of the crisis. With political Flossules, the Government cannot bring us out of the crisis, but it can bring us, if not another, on the basis of an argumentated debate, evidence and, last but not least, a presentation of this budget. And unfortunately, there was no argument in the presentations made by the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance that this would indeed happen. Economic activity, as has been said, is changing for the better, but ladies and gentlemen, European institutions are still telling us that economic activity will be on foot next year and that we will be one of the two countries after gross social product, where gross social product will be negative. This means, of course, that the direction we are going in is probably not the right one, or that there are not enough measures in this budget that would lead us to economic growth. The achievements of this government, namely the reduction of unemployment, have also been mentioned. If we are professionally comparing indices, period-to-period, Madam President of the Government, then we can find that unemployment has increased from period to period. It increased by 7.1% when we look at January-October 2012 and January-October 2013. It's not just percentages here, it's not important numbers, it's important everyone is unemployed, it's everyone who's actually become unemployed lately. And you should pay particular attention to these, because this number goes to over 119, 118 thousand, approaching 120 thousand. It's a signal that something's wrong. Neither does anyone pretend to hide any sins with a threesome, as you say, your sins and your mistakes. No! No! It has to be realized that today we are not 50 or 60 years ago and you cannot convince us with political Flossules that we are on the right track. We are part of the European Union today, we are part of the European Commission, we are part of the monetary system and there are certain mechanisms in this context that do not mean a loss of independence. The loss of independence is likely to mean an increase in over-indebtedness, and this debt, I am talking about the country's indebtedness, was the largest in the period 2009-2011 when the state committed itself significantly more. The policy of this government is that tax policy will achieve that the country will have a smaller deficit and that tax policy is also the basis of social policy. This is also an issue for the President of the Government, and allow me to answer her questions or her allegations. This thesis that tax policy is the basis of social policy can only be maintained if those who have more income are taxed even more depending on their income situation. Let's go in one order. The value added tax raise does not mean that most of the taxes will be paid by the poorest, given their relative income – very easily. Those who have 500 euros of monthly income must spend them and 500 euros will be paid by value added tax. Those who have 5,000 euros of monthly income will not spend everything and will not pay value added tax from what they do not spend. In other words, this tax is regressive and regressive in every textbook. This tax is therefore not a social tax and is not an element of social policy. And the reallocation actually means that those who are poorer will pay even more. The abolition of the coordination of the scale and the coordination of income allowances is also not a social measure, as this will make it possible for everyone, those with the lowest incomes and those with the highest income. Real estate tax, ladies and gentlemen! Given that the Government has not analysed the income situation of people in Slovenia compared to the value of the property they have, which has been built by self-defiance and self-building in the past decades, we cannot say that this is any social tax because the income situation of people differs significantly from that of people. As a result, tax policy cannot be part of social policy in these specific cases. This work is done by the government of Alenka Bratusek, and it does not mean that the poor or those with less money will pay less, but it means that they will pay more depending on the relative situation. It's very easy to calculate. It is easy to calculate in such a way that the four-member family is expected to be more burdened or pay more than 1,000 euros in taxes in 2014, assuming that it has average income. Despite the fact that tax revenues will not produce the desired results, we must also find out what the predecessors have already said is unrealistic. In other words, the budget is unrealistic. Why is he unrealistic? Due to the fact that the Tax Administration collected or collected approximately 6,5 % less in the first 9 months of 2012 than it collected in 2012. In other words, the tax revenues in the country fall according to the previous year and the same period, irrespective of the fact that the Government of Alenka Bratušek increased the value added tax rates. That is why it is unrealistic, and also because not all the expenditure that will actually have to be paid in this budget is actually paid out, both in the public sector, both in terms of deleted and probably no other expenditure is taken into account in this budget. And if we are talking about an assessment of the situation on which this budget should also be prepared, then we can say that the assessment of the situation is wrong or that there is something else behind these budgets. Taking into account all predictions that gross social product growth will be negative in the coming year, that consumption will be reduced, both private and national, then we can find that this budget is unrealistic and that it will probably have to be changed very quickly. Here, at the declaration level, we can agree with the Minister of Finance, who speaks roughly in such a way that we have to spend as much as we create and that we are going on the right path. After all, at the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have adopted a fiscal rule and we now have it in the constitution. However, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have a fiscal rule law and therefore it is not possible to implement this fiscal rule. This is about whether this government is working with a fig in its pocket if we know that we will not be able to adopt this law on a regular basis in this year's budget and therefore this law will not be a passenger in this budget. The next important thing, here were the balance sheets B and C, is privatisation, the money obtained from the sale of state-owned companies. There's no money and there won't be. This is what it says in the budget and the illusions that on the basis of the 15 companies that have now been designated or chosen, something should be done in the area of privatisation – we can very much doubt that. We can very much doubt this because this choice is not followed by concrete action and, of course, there are too many opinions, too many suggestions and interests in the area of privatisation that this coalition is capable of making. After all, we can talk about the fact that one party actually opposes any privatisation, and from this point of view it is probably also somewhat misleading that we are talking about any revenue from this title, which is necessary for the state to come out of the crisis. For state ownership has proved to be completely inefficient and state ownership is least effective and therefore there is no need to create transparent management conditions. The economy of Slovenia is based on the monopolistic position of state-owned enterprises and on the monopoly position through which they can be financed and financed for various purposes. The budget is also not realistic because we do not have any data on the situation in the banking sector, or as the Minister of Finance says, that we all know that we do not know what the impact of the stress tests will be. In public and in Umar there are data that are public and on the basis of which, of course, scenarios A, B, C and D can be assessed as to what kind of bank hole or banking crater you want. Of course, they should be prepared for this. So we all know nothing as it appears. And as we can read in the media, some probably know a little bit more, and at the Ministry of Finance they seem to know a little less. And on top of all this, from correct fiscal policy, from the rehabilitation of the banking system, from the creation of conditions for management, it depends on all of this, to what extent Slovenia will be indebted and we do not even know it. In October, interest on 10-year bonds was around 6%. 6% of the interest rate on Slovenia's indebtedness is a disaster and means debt transfer to future generations. Is there anything else that the government has done? Certainly and ultimately, this government has also promised the European Commission that two thirds of the deficit will be achieved in the area of expenditure and one third in the area of revenue. That's not what the government was up to. She did not do her homework on the expenditure side, despite the fact that she had promised the European Commission and that this could be done. The measures should certainly be much more selective on the revenue side than on the general side. If the revenue measures were selective, they would not have affected the poorest, they would not have affected those who actually have the least today, and they would not have increased unemployment, because we need to know that some 606,000 people in the economy care for the 750 000 people who earn money from public funds. Ladies and gentlemen, this relationship is no longer possible. It's not possible anymore because it's just gonna run out of money. Of course, you can tell me that non-economics also contribute to a gross social product. Contributes 15 m%, ask Umar and the macroeconomic indicators that actually say that. However, I note that 606,000 employees in the economy actually finance 750 000 people who receive money from public funds, and this relationship is one of the most problematic and has also warned the International Monetary Fund that reforms need to be continued. These reforms, structural reforms, they're not. The government of Alenka Bratusek of these reforms – at least we do not know how to prepare them and anything else will happen here. If we are talking about the property tax and also about the fact that, as was said, the value added tax is extremely important, what is the tax base – I quote Alenko Bratušek: "The amount of the tax will be based on the value of the property." Madam President of the Government, the amount of tax will be based on the general value of real estate, which is some artificial value calculated on the basis of different criteria. In fact, this is a model principle that will cause many irregularities and many injustices in this taxation. It is not true, unless the amendment is adopted, that this will at least partially ease, that this tax will be the most viable, the best and will tax those who have the most, and not those who have very little income, and in the past they have secured value, some real estate, with their work. This value is too high, this model value is also too high in the light of estimates that will be known at the end of the year when credit guarantees are assessed. Then it will be clear that the fall in the real estate area is likely to be significant. This will mean that the price of real estate will also fall. It is certainly necessary to say that exports are the one on which the Slovenian economy will be founded and on which the Slovenian company will also be based, or on the success of this export. However, new taxes, including new bureaucratic barriers, reduce export absorption and export competitiveness. Therefore, it would be absolutely necessary to change the management conditions in the direction of simplification and in the direction of acquisition of new capital. Here I would very much like the Minister of Economy to come from abroad several times and tell us that there are opportunities for capital to come and that the Slovenians are also able to invest. I'm afraid that's not the case. Unfortunately, all too often we share some of the resources in the budget, but we do not know what the actual effects or effects of these allocations will be. Therefore, the situation in the economy and in the area of competitiveness is extremely complex and difficult. We also believe that with such an economic policy Slovenia will certainly not come out of the crisis. If we look at the calculations made by the European Commission, then we can see that the European Commission foresees a 7.1% deficit under the ESA methodology. As explained by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the government envisages a deficit of 6.4% according to the same methodology, which means that there is some imbalance. On the other hand, the government foresees a deficit of 2.9% for the lower public sector in 2014. There are some differences here. I would very much like these differences to be clarified, especially because the European Commission will also assess this budget on the basis of these forecasts and because, as it is said, the European Commission will give an opinion on this budget on 15 November, and today we accept it – without this opinion, without a realistic basis, without knowing what interest rates we will be indebted to. However, they are expected to be in debt for almost 5 billion in the following year, in 2014. We will look for certain guarantees and approve guarantees to certain banks, so that we can reach almost 10 billion additional commitments and guarantees, which is, of course, unacceptable. It is unacceptable that this generation is shifting the crisis to future generations. Next year we will pay a billion euros in interest. And it is unacceptable that we plan not to know what the basic parameters for public consumption are for borrowing, for privatisation, for the role of the state in the economy. I have a feeling that this government is not in control of the crisis. In this budget, it does not give any opportunity to make any progress. It does not give a chance for progress, except to guide the pace of progress in order to guide the pace of progress of the country. It has also been mentioned several times in the Committee on Finance that this budget is stabilizing with regard to public finances, which will be one of the main starting points for further development. However, with the stabilisation of public finances, it is possible to adopt such economic and financial policies in the field of the economy as a means of progress and as a means of hope. Thus, because of all the unknowns we have today, this budget is a great imagination. Such an economic, social policy, where people have more real income, can mean a policy of misery and ruin, as I say, and it is not necessary for all of you to agree. For there is no hope here, this budget gives no hope, as the Prime Minister stated in her speech. The situation is getting worse and the forecasts are that in the coming year, there will be further deterioration in consumption, unemployment, social security, and more and more companies going into insolvency proceedings and bankruptcy. I would also very much like to see in this budget some signals that will mean progress for Slovenia and some future, which will ultimately look like Slovenia will have only a past and we cannot be united as it is. She's just gonna lose her future. This gives us this budget and we are very concerned about this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are also very concerned that there is no vision and strategy, or that this vision or strategy is based solely on debt, solely on the extra taxation of people, and this is not selective, and that there are no measures that would actually contribute to improving the economic situation. We cannot support such a budget in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We cannot support it – not because it has been prepared by the government of Alenka Bratušek, but because it does not give us, citizens and citizens, the path out of the crisis, the path out of the crisis, the crisis can deepen, and it does not give us those options, the hope that the country can move into economic development. After all, we don't even know if we're already at the bottom of this crisis. That is why we cannot support this budget. In preparing, explaining and so on, we would like much more cooperation and less exclusion. Less exclusion from the fact that any well-intentioned proposal is also the subject of ridicule, and above all negatives, and such cooperation has also been present in Slovenia in recent years. For example, in the reform of the tax system in 2006 and 2007, when the Partnership for Development, in which the current Social Democrats were present, simply confirmed that reform, irrespective of further criticism. And we would like to see economic, economic, social and financial policies so prepared and adopted in the current situation. The situation is changing rapidly, and the situation for Slovenia is changing rapidly with strangers that we do not have a identified bank hole, that we do not know what interest rates we will have to pay – we only know that we will have to – they are going in a negative direction. And if then the main document does not show us how this trend will change, how we will go up, then we think that this budget should actually stop looking and do something better. We think and believe that Slovenians and Slovenes want a better document, that Slovenians and Slovenes also need to show the possibilities that will mean greater prosperity for them, which will mean that Slovenia will go out of the crisis. Unfortunately, these documents will not achieve this, nor will we do so through the policy of the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and a joint introduction to the draft amending budget and to the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a debate on each of the proposals for acts separately. We continue on the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a debate on the draft budget changes. We will discuss individual parts of the draft amending budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the general part, the specific part and the development programme plan are counted. We are moving on to the general part of the draft amending budget. Anybody want to talk? I am opening my application by saying that the first has already applied to the word of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Alenka Bratusek. Of course, I am also opening an application to the debate for all other Members and Members of Parliament. The application shall be made. Eight Members and Members have been notified. The first word is from the President of the Magi Government. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I'll also try to re-present the documents before you through the numbers in a short time. But first of all, after this last presentation, it seems to me once again that the situation in the country at this time is significantly better than it was at the end of March when I took over the government's leadership. Once again, in the first quarter, the economic activity fell 4.5%, minus 4.5%. We finished the second quarter, still unfortunately negative, but with 1.7. From 4.5 to 1.7! I hope and I believe you know you can't make a plus from minus 4.5 in the same year. And the number of employees you want or do not want to reduce by 4,000 between March and the end of October. I agree, still too little, it'll have to be better, but these are numbers. Exports are increasing faster than in the rest of Europe, faster than the European average. All of these are indicators for which I want them to be better for myself, but six months, seven months actually running the government, and I think that at that time it was huge, huge for such a short time. And that's what all the data you've operated on shows. As far as the European Commission's assessments are concerned. I believe that you remember that there were also differences in last year and in the year before last year there were differences, but last year it did not bother you that they would not adopt the budget, and this year you are disturbed. There are always certain differences. The fact that, for this period for which the European Commission is currently preparing is in fact very, very small differences. The budget deficit is falling in line with the commitments that have been made before us or, if you will, by governments and government presidents. This budget deficit will amount to €859 million or 2.4% of gross domestic product in 2015. All of this comes from figures in the general budget, at the top of these tables. And all these documents, honourable Members, you have received and have them before you. I have not seen the point of charging you once again with all these numbers, but I will now especially touch on tax revenue or total revenue, which will be 8.6 billion in 2014. If we look at tax revenues, the draft budget changes - of course, these estimates - will amount to 6.8 million euros. But in this same table you see that when you adopted the 2014 budget, you also planned practically the same amount of tax revenue, even for 28 million and a half our estimates are lower. While we have honestly told Slovenian citizens and citizens what taxes should be raised in order to reach this number. That's an essential difference. 450 million euros had to be produced with new taxes to finally come to your plan, you adopted the 2014 budget – the same number, the table at the top reads: "General part of the 2014 budget." So much for the reality of the forecast. I agree, however, that these are forecasts and may be derogations and each year there are derogations in these numbers. If I touch another real estate tax first. In fact, we also had issues in the coalition, in the government, what and how to consolidate public finances. And I'll tell you again why we decided on the property tax. For the first time because it will be fairly distributed throughout the country, because so far some have not paid anything and some have paid much for equivalent properties and in the same country in Slovenia. And because the tax will not be paid by those who have nothing, they do not own property. Those who own small or small property will pay slightly less, and those who have large and valuable properties will pay more. As I have seen in certain calculations, some politicians will pay quite a lot of this tax – a thousand 200 euros a year. But if they have a lot, they should pay a lot. The average size of residential property in Slovenia is slightly more than 68 square metres. The average property value is EUR 78 000. The average real estate tax will thus amount to 93.6 euros per year in 2014 and 7.8 euros per month. Once again, the amount to be paid for the use of the building’s land — approximately EUR 4.8 per month. So 3 euros per month is the difference of the average. Those who have much more property will pay much more, but I hope we agree that in some solidarity society it is the same. The second thing where we were even very conservative in our income assessment is the fight against the grey economy. We took very little into account, not because we didn't mean it, but because we wanted to be on the safe side of the income assessment. And also with the actions taken by the Tax Administration – I believe you can see that by fighting against the grey economy we are serious as much as possible. We are equally serious about the fight against tax evasion. By September this year, according to 32 procedures completed before the law was amended, 7.8 million Euros were collected from this title. At this point in time, there are 40 more things in the process, but how much of this tax will be paid cannot be said until the cases are closed. I can only tell you one case, of course without names, because I don't know them myself, but they told me that a man, also a lady who has declared 30,000 euros of income, has made 3 million euros of spending on the other hand. Thank God that, as you have mentioned many times today, the government of Alenka Bratušek, and I will say so myself, our government has done so. As far as expenditure is concerned, social transfers are not falling further, public sector wages are falling in line with what we agreed. Investments, you won't believe, are increasing by 80%. EUR 740 million was realized in your financial year 2012, a billion 300 being the funds earmarked for investments in 2014. I don't know if anyone could want more or we could want more, and if the situation were favourable, believe me, there would be more, but 80%! 80% more than you realized in the 2012 budget. And if for someone, I'm going to say that we had to decide during the free education of our children, the pension allowance, the 12-month maternity allowance, the children's allowance, the unemployment benefits and something else on the one hand, and on the other hand, the property taxes, the fight against the grey economy, the fight against those who spend more than they create, then I don't know, maybe we don't live in the same country. This is not a political footnote, but a reality that is reflected in this budget. We have decided on this second path because we think it is more just and more solidarity. A comparison that was the only one offered on the table — what they would have done if they had not imposed a property tax — would have been a crisis tax. But with this, I've told you before, and I'm going to repeat here, a person with an average salary if this tax was 2% – and when we were preparing a rebalancing in the summer, we were doing calculations, this rate of average pay was going somewhere around 2% – we were charged with 30 euros a month. You suggested that we charge people with 30 euros, instead of 3 euros, like the real estate tax. We've just decided on this path that's less painful for people. With the crisis tax, work would be additionally burdened, but I think we all agree that it is wrong to increase the burden further. I agree, the budget could be better, it could be more developed, but not in this economic situation. I'm sure in this short time, we've done the best we can in seven months. I think that even more than anyone in this Chamber has expected of us, and in the end this also shows the estimates we receive from abroad, both from the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and others. I would also like to see economic recovery run faster, but unfortunately, once again, from minus 4.5 cannot jump into positive economic growth. And as I said in my speech at the end, there may be a number of footnotes for you, but for me, they are very weighty words. Connecting, dialogue and cooperation is the only right way for our country and I think it is right to make sure that Slovenia is a country of solidarity between citizens and citizens, a fair, economically successful country and a just society. When I can no longer defend or work in accordance with these values, I will no longer stand before you as Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Aljoša Jerič is next reported for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And thank you very much. Excessive or excessive cuts to social expenditure are not an instrument to promote recovery. I didn't make this up myself, that's a finding, among other things, from the International Monetary Fund. Thus, in their analyses by the economists of the International Monetary Fund, it is clear that fiscal consolidation is twice as risky at the time of recession as it is at the time of economic growth, that gradual consolidation produces better effects than rapid shock therapy and that drastic consolidations have a more negative impact on economic growth and that they increase public debt against GDP. To hold the latter, evidence is also a catastrophic situation in Greece, where there is no economist who today would not have admitted that in the case of Greece the attempt of rapid fiscal consolidation in the style of shock therapy has made the situation in this country dramatically worse. In addition to building a social state, fiscal policy in Greece has so dangerously increased nationalism and extremist political groups. Such an increase in extremism can unfortunately be seen in other European countries, which is only an additional alarm for a serious reflection on restrictive austerity policies. The budget that we have before us, according to everything so far, is very balanced, at least in a gradual and socio-social way, humanely reduces the deficit and thus the need for debt. At the same time, with the property tax and the fight against the grey economy, it highlights a fairer distribution of the tax burden on the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia and for all citizens and companies registered in the Republic of Slovenia. In the opposition, you can deny that we do not take this budget seriously, that we are not able to realize it or that it is impossible to do what we have before us, but that there is no other way out of the crisis, and I believe that we are aware of it in this country, and in particular all those who have a responsibility on the side of the coalition, and that we will all support the budget that we have before us and also confirm the confidence of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the 2014 budget, it can be said that it is bad because it is a crisis. But we have to ask ourselves, who brought us here? I'm sure Alice Bratusek doesn't. The budget is the only possible because it continues what the past governments have left us. It is bad because 10% of all funds must be earmarked to pay interest on the loans they have leased in the past. Although poor, it is development-oriented because the economy is spending more money on economic growth and new jobs. The budget is good because it keeps the social state. It is good because it preserves the independence of Slovenia. It is good because it follows the objective of financial consolidation. It is good because it follows the objective of achieving a budget deficit of 3% of GDP for 2014 and 2.5% for 2015. It is good because the government does not interfere with the salaries of public servants who were reduced after the spring negotiations. However, the terms of the agreement are in force for 2014. Budget documents are stabilizing, budget expenditure is planned at EUR 9.64 billion. The budget is good because according to Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, who has been preparing a budget for all governments for the past 10 years. And if anyone does, she's the one who can reliably comment on the content of the budget. So I have no reason not to trust her and trust her expertise. It is obvious that this budget does not include or include non-adopted laws or taxes that it does not, in fact, differ from the budget drawn up by the Government of Janez Janša. In its budget, it had three taxes, which were subsequently adopted, some even much later than the start of the budget. That's what I'm saying because the government of Alenka Bratusek had to accept them. Alenka Bratušek says: "The budget is demanding, cost-effective, sometimes risky, and nowhere dangerous. He's not calling three, he's stamina, and he's still suffering." The success of the document is measured by the fact that the government has managed to reduce the budget deficit below 3%, thus meeting one of the fundamental requirements for European credibility. Development will not fall due to debt, as education, investment in development and research is targeted at the greatest possible extent possible in the current situation. Investments will not be slowed down as they will be combined with European funds and will be significantly more focused. In addition, the budget is coordinated without major cuts in social rights and pensions and without unilateral wage interventions. To the opposition’s apparent impertinence, unresistance, indevelopment, and calling the troika, we answer: What does the word unrealistic really mean? According to the dictionary of the Slovenian language, non-reality means non-reality, non-reality, reality or non-reality can be perceived and understood. And it's that bush that's where the rabbit's at. That's an objective assessment. And we can take it for ourselves. You can say he's unrealistic, we can say he's real. If we continue to make haste in the obvious that it is unrealistic, I could tell you that on the one hand you are even right, because for 2014, a change in the budget is coming from what you have prepared. At the time of the 2013 rebalancing, in the middle of this year, we have found that it is unrealistic. Well, I have to even agree with you. It's also unrealistic because right now we don't know exactly what a bank hole means for the state budget. But now it's not possible to know. We can only predict or evaluate. How do you imagine to draw up a budget differently, a respected opposition, after you silenced the size of the budget hole at the handover of the government? Instead of 1 billion, you've left an additional 800 million euros a bigger hole. The question that follows is, how do you dig yourself out of this state? How is that patched up without consequences? Very difficult, so this moment in the opposition is much easier for you. It's always easier to follow someone, to correct and criticize, to point, not to create, but to control. The opposition is in a better position at this moment, which could, on condition, also produce a better result in possible elections with a focus on conditionality. Whoever's in the government right now should handle these things, so you'd be out of the public eye. We need to know that the cleaner is not dirty if he removes the dirt from those who created it. The measures on the expenditure side that follow include a reduction in public sector wages, non-coordination of pensions, non-coordination and reduction of social transfers, rational consumption of current expenditure. The contribution to the consolidation of public finances on the revenue side includes raising VAT rates, introducing property tax, lottery taxes, halting the reduction of corporate income tax rates, limiting the indexation of tax benefits and tax bases on income, measures to improve tax collection and the fight against the grey economy, changes in other taxes and refunds. Minister Cufer ensures that there will be no new tax measures in 2014. However, the President of the Government is convinced that we are working for social justice. We're rejecting this government's interference with neoliberal. We don't call a threesome, but we're trying to solve our problems at home on our own. I quote the President of the Government: "Our country's total gross debt is still at the same level as in 2008, because we are not breaking the budget. In the first three months of this year, when Janez Janša, according to the Anti-Corruption Commission, said goodbye to the Prime Minister, you left us 800 million euro of the budget hole. Today, this same budget on a monthly basis is already exaggerating, because we can find a compromise, as we have demonstrated in both the fiscal rule and the referendum legislation." And the President of the Government is also optimistic about this dialogue with the social partners. Because skeletons, constitutional decisions, pensions, regrees of public servants have fallen from the closets, they have been erased, wage imbalances, and because we say bob beans and problems and problems we don't sweep under the carpet just to make it look good. Slovenia has made commitments under the previous government from the fiscal pact. It is an international agreement that we are obliged to respect and we will. The well-respected opposition, which you so criticise both documents, the mistakes you have made in your work, are measurable, in millions. We are aware of the need to ensure respect for people, the democratic development of Europe and the preservation of our own sovereignty. To the second argument that the budget is not development-oriented, I answer you: it certainly does not hold back from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology because it receives more resources in the field of development and research. And it's this ministry that can pull our wagon out of the mud. In the area of the economy, for a long time, the budget provides negative economic growth, which for the first time in a year has not exceeded 3%, which is still not satisfactory, but at least it is encouraging to move forward. And the last. One of the web portals said, "Don't call three, three's already here." If this statement makes it easier for anyone, I can agree with it. I want different, patient, just and solidarity Slovenia. The proposed budget leads along the path of development and progress, i.e. better times, so I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'm really impressed. I have a feeling that the world began to spin in March this year when the government was taken over by Alenka Bratušek. All she does, all she says is dry gold and pure truth. It has been proven on several occasions that this is not the case and that we must look at these statements and all the actions of the Government with some critical distance. I have received many answers to my debate, which I will only have, which will go in the direction that this budget is neither realistic nor developmental. But I will try to support my words with examples and evidence. And even before I begin, I am answering myself to everyone who was already before me and you said that there is no other way out of the crisis – of course it is. A different way out of the crisis is and the recipe our government had for a way out of the crisis some year ago was very different, and in this part it allowed for a realistic possibility for tax revenues to remain at the level we planned, of course, provided that the policy we set continues to be implemented. I will only quickly remind you that at about this time last year we discussed labour reform, pension reform, government property management, the Slovenian State Holding Act, the rehabilitation of the banking system, all of this. These are the developmental things and the essential things that have provided the basis for Slovenia to come out of the crisis. You have denied many, you have blocked many, and yet you have also had to admit, in the end, under the pressure of foreign institutions, that it will not be possible to simply skip this and that this story will have to be carried on in some way. However, it could also be taken in a different way. That now I'm trying to justify why I think the budget is unrealistic. It is unrealistic because it predicts about €550 million in new taxes. Who do you think's gonna pay those taxes? These taxes will be paid by Slovenian citizens and citizens and by the Slovenian economy, and in all this you are very vehemently claiming that we are preserving the social state. Higher taxes mean less available income and lower standard. That's a fact. You've raised VAT. It affects people's standards. You've raised your income. It also affects people's standards. You've abolished tax cuts from corporate income. This affects business operations. All of this reduces purchasing power, all of which makes private consumption in Slovenia continue to decline. If private consumption continues to decline, how can we promise higher taxes from this title? Higher VAT? Economic growth? She's not in the horizon yet. The predictions of Umar and the European institutions were further deteriorated days ago on such a bad basis. How can we promise that as the economy becomes more and more, in your opinion, we will receive more and more tax from their title? It won't work, so we think these numbers are unrealistic. The expenditure — we all know — does not have to be repeated again — is unrealized because today we know that we will have to pay back salaries to public servants and deletes. How can you say that the expenditure is actually planned? They're not. In my opinion, this budget is the result of creative accounting. We had some final goal, some deficit that others have prescribed from the outside, which can be maximum, and we have adapted the variables that we can, so that this formula and equation came out. On the one hand, I hear that this budget is poor because it is a crisis. On the other hand, I hear that this budget is developmental. It will now be necessary to decide slowly whether this is a crisis, crisis, development or stabilisation budget, but in the final stage it does not really matter what it is. The fact is that it is unrealistic and taxes and burdens people and businesses. Anyway, I'm going to read something, even though I don't like quotes, but one statement by the President of the Government was particularly nice to me. She said, "My government started a mandate as a fire squad. We have adopted the necessary reforms to stabilise the economy and the first signs of recovery are already here." I asked several times: What are these reforms? What is this determination of the grey economy? Is this a reform? That's what all governments do all the time. These policies that you are listing here are, in fact, no strategic policies. These are the ongoing operations of the country that each government carries out within each mandate. And once again, I ask again from this city – perhaps the President of the Government or the finance minister are listening to me not to get the answer I have already answered many times, that they have already said so many times, which reforms are not to be repeated. I'd like to ask you to repeat yourself a little bit so that we can all understand what reforms this is about. Where are those development breakthroughs and the developmental orientation of the budget? If anyone thinks that the development budget is because we gave more money to the Ministry of the Economy, then we would refer him to study some basics of the economy. But it would be closer to the truth that it is indeveloped, that we are burdening the economy with new taxes, because with this economy we are taking this development charge. We will take the whole group of companies that are still operating in this Slovenia, so that with some redistributive instruments, through some ministries and funds, we will devote this money to those who we think are entitled to this money. Wrong approach! It is necessary to unload everything so that everyone can breathe more easily, so that everyone can fill this budget. One more thing, if I may say so, I'll warn you. In March, April, May – I do not know when – the government promised to make an effort to consolidate the budget on both sides, on the income and on the expenditure side. She wrote this in a stability program she sent to Brussels. She wrote that we would do two thirds on the expenditure side and one third on the revenue side. Can someone tell me and prove with the numbers we have before us today, what is this relationship? And in order not to torture ourselves, part of the government has already repaired the Minister of Finance, who freely admitted that it did not go as planned, it went more "fifty-fifty". Well, a respected colleague who isn't here is not everything the President of the Government says, dry gold. Sometimes he's wrong. I would like to conclude that in the end, the President of the Government has only served us with a few numbers of a more accounting character according to individual items. At this point, I don't think accounting and accounting information is the most important. More importantly, those numbers that talk about it, and that would explain a little bit more, that there is a one billion-dollar hole in the income and expenditure balance. One billionth deficit! That there is a minus per billion in the financial claim and investment account and that in the third balance sheet we expect to be re-indebted by 4 billion 800. From these cruel numbers, which have all the negative signs, we should come up with and explain what things we have here in Parliament, especially to people, citizens and citizens of Slovenia who deserve to know why these numbers are as they are. That these numbers are as they are, also because we will not, as we should, intervene in the public sector, not only by reducing wages, but by reorganising, rationalising and everything that is needed, not only in employment, but also, say, public procurement. We have 4 billion public contracts in Slovenia. 5% of the savings in public procurement will cover the full collection of real estate tax, which is now being introduced in the budget. Five percent savings! Who hopes that we can't save 5% of our savings on public contracts in this Slovenia, but we wouldn't need any real estate tax. And there'd be a lot of other things. But the move is that you, your well-respected coalition colleagues, and the government to bring such solutions. Our solutions, when we were in government, went this way. So there is not just one way out of the crisis, there are more exits, the exits are different, and the exits are better. As you suggest, it leads to a new spiral of economic restraint, long-term demolition of the social state. The fact that we have maintained social peace this year, by negotiating with the social partners that there will be no intervention in the salaries of public servants, does not mean that the social state will be preserved. This means long-term damage to the social state. We are so very skeptical of this budget. It's far, far from what we'd expect, and we won't be able to support it in any way, like you introduced it here, I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u52	It is clear that the country's annual budget is the economic policy framework set by the Government. In advance, I agree that there are several different paths within this possible, but no matter what, in the basic dimensions today we must find that this budget provides and is on the way to achieving the three key objectives. The first is the gradual fiscal consolidation, because we are all collectively aware that our public finances need to be balanced over the medium term and gradually. This is, last but not least, part of our commitments to the European Commission under the procedure in which Slovenia is, this is due to an excessive deficit. As we know, this year the government has ensured, by agreement with the European Commission, that Slovenia has gained some more time and thus a little more air to achieve the level playing field of its public finances. This allows us to make one of the measures in a way that ensures greater sustainability, thereby preserving what is the second objective of this economic policy, and that is some social acceptance, social sensitivity. From the figures of this budget, which I will indicate in a few moments, it will be clear that in the Government and in this coalition we are aware that we have already crossed those limits when it is permissible and it is possible to reduce the scope of social transfers. Finally, this economic policy also has the objective of a developmental shift towards the development orientation of this budget, which is mainly reflected in two aspects. The first aspect is the volume of funds for investment and investment transfers and the second aspect is the extent of funds for restructuring our economy, which must also necessarily include the volume of resources to overcome the problem we have in the banking system. In all, it holds that it is crucial and extremely important for Slovenia to maintain stability and continuity. Stability for this, because at this point we simply do not have this luxury to delay changing our reality in a way that is decisively cutting off those problems that Slovenia has. That is why, I believe, at this point, there is a reflection on the change of government, the fall of government, early elections and something that Slovenia can no longer afford. With the 2014 budget and a similar document for 2015, we cannot delay because in a few months' time the country will have to go to the international financial markets to strengthen its credibility in order to demonstrate to investors, and at the outset to all international institutions, headed by the European Commission, headed by the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, that it is able to resolve its problems alone and, of course, that is unfortunately the reality in this international financial system, to convince the investor that it is capable of settling its debts. Of course, in a way that will not mean that we will cause an absolute social, developmental and other stagnation in the country, but in a way that promises to step up, but decisively, our fiscal options will be strengthened, on the other hand, to cut off problems in the economy, so that it will resume in due course. The ability to obtain funding resources is crucial because we need to provide a more favourable source. I agree with those who point out that an interest rate of 6% is something that is simply not sustainable for our economy and our country. Unfortunately, we are moving within the framework of the international financial system, which is to a large extent also unfair, and I am first in favour of Slovenia, by its example and through its diplomatic capabilities, pursuing a path to change this international financial system. One of the most pronounced cases with this international financial system is, for example, the comparison between Slovenia and the United States. While the United States was on the verge of bankruptcy for several weeks when the Democrats and Republicans failed to agree on a framework of additional debt to finance the US administration and was closed for a few weeks, the other US ratings remained intact. Untouched and for the Slovenian situation dream! Slovenia, which has several times less public debt than the United States of America, has ratings at a level which, due to a lack of confidence in our abilities, because of the lack of confidence in the fact that we are serious about our commitments, of course pose major problems. And that cost us in the end. Finally, this brings to a close the room of manoeuvre for smart reactions and smart budgeting, one end to the other. But of course this does not mean that Slovenia would not do what it has to do at this time. Also in order to bring the public deficit and structural deficit below the level of 3% of gross domestic product, of course. But let me start this story here, which I think is the key difference between you and us. Not to increase this division, but to open up that part of the debate in this country, which we must urgently carry out and without which such or other social consensus cannot be built. And this is the question of the role of the public sector. The public sector in this country is concerned that people are safe. It ensures that, at least initially, all of us have more or less equal opportunities through the education and education system, the sciences that care that the abilities of our people can be transferred to the higher added value of our economy through the strong developmental impulses provided by this budget or every budget to strengthen justice in this country, this fundamental humanity, by which those people in our community who are poor, society and community help us not lastly provide the means for the state to act as the basic infrastructure of this community, to establish, maintain and build some infrastructure that promises development tomorrow and so on. These are all public sector tasks today. I agree with those who see the public sector, without being its strong advocate, as a generator of gross domestic product. Many smart countries, which at the start of the crisis have understood that public sector, public education and public health in particular need to strengthen, are no longer having problems with the crisis. This does not mean that the public sector should remain the way it is. On the contrary! If you ask me, the biggest trap for the allies of the public sector, the one who guarantees equality of opportunity in this country, is to leave it alone and not reform it. That is why, after years of public sector reform, it is essential, above all, to start with a smart transformation of the public sector and also with the question of what the pay system should be. By the way, it is true that some of the necessary payments have not yet been realized and that this is now the subject of negotiations with the social partners, but here we are already facing the consequences of a ten-year policy that has levelled a good and bad worker in public administration, a good and bad teacher, or if you want a fair or corrupt policeman, a public official, politics and so on. We need to put different elements in the wage system in the public sector that will enable the reward of good work and the sanctioning of bad. If you ask me, I speak here on my own behalf, I am open to forgiveness in the public sector, but I would like the forgiveness of those who do not work well in this sector to at least partially replace the impulses of young people with new knowledge, the new approaches that the state has also been educating for the professions that the public sector needs. Well, let's get to the numbers. I apologize to my colleagues for my debt. Review of the key items of this budget. The opposition demands that we lower public spending. This is what we are doing with this budget, and some items are already asking whether we are not already on the sustainable border. In doing so, remember the police vehicles that will be asking you in a few days, what kind of tires you have on your cars, whether you switched your annual tires into winter tyres. In the meantime, let us ask ourselves whether all police vehicles will be equipped as required by law. Even today it is clear that the answer is no. The public sector's salaries in the 2014 budget, as before us today, are 25 million euros lower than this year's reality, or 80 million lower than the budget currently in force for 2014, set before us by the Janša government. In addition, if I add contributions to the salaries of public servants, which is lower by 90 million euros. Goods and services; €70 million lower than realisation in 2013. EUR 110 million is lower than the funding plan set out in the 2014 core budget. These are data indicating whether we behave rationally or not in relation to the public sector. What, though, are those gabarits who, on the other hand, severely restrict us? Firstly, there is a need to provide 188 million euros of funding in this budget, as planned by the basic proposal, in order to realize the rights of people in the pension system. We will spend a billion and a half billion dollars in 2014 to fund the needs of the pension fund, which is more than planned in the basic budget for 188 million euros. The recapitalisation of banks; a step that needs to be taken in parallel with the transfer of bad claims in order to make the problem of bank cramping and lending of the economy – this is the key reason why Slovenia falls on the competitiveness scales, access to funding sources is a cancer of the Slovenian economy – we will overcome. If I had more time, I could also say something about the changed concept of systemic debt, which is essential in order to reduce the indebtedness of the Slovenian economy. What, on the other hand, is happening to some of the budget items that testify to developmental orientation, including a billion and 200 million euros of planned recapitalisation of banks? Investments and investment transfers in this budget are increasing by EUR 200 million in relation to the realisation of this year and, according to the 2014 budget, they are higher by up to EUR 430 million. It is also similar with the increasing social transfers, unfortunately still not to the level that everyone together could happily say that effective assistance is provided in this country to anyone who is in trouble because it is not. In a situation where the Social Democrats had to sacrifice their decision to preserve the level of social transfer funds at least where they are today, we must be aware that these funds are not enough today to ensure that all those in this country in need of effective assistance from the State are provided with this assistance. They're not enough! Do you know what the amount of social assistance is today? It is essential that we adopt this budget. I am not satisfied with a certain measure accompanying this budget, including real estate tax, but I am aware that the reduction of revenue and the increased need for public expenditure on some of the already mentioned items will pave the way for manoeuvre. And in the context of the redistribution of social wealth, we also need to introduce unpopular measures to ensure the country's manoeuvre and ability to get it out of the crisis. What I miss in this budget is that the field of fiscal consolidation would also be used by reducing environmentally harmful subsidies – these, according to the Umanotera report for EUR 500 million – in a gradual manner, with the ability of recipients of such funds to adapt in a smart way, as well as some other unused opportunities. This government does what needs to be done, but it does not have to be exaggerated or exaggerated with praises at its expense. For the time being, I am a realist, I am aware that this country has its future only if we are in this Chamber, if in Slovenian politics and society at all, it is sufficient rationality to understand that we are in critical moments the most difficult times, probably in the last 20 years, and that it is simply necessary to remove all the ballast that prevents us from taking decisions today to sail out in 2014. And remember, Umar's forecasts, the forecasts of the European Central Bank and other evaluators on economic growth in 2014 are still forecasts. Let us try, remove obstacles, strengthen the capacity of this country, so that Slovenia will be a pleasant surprise to Europe this time in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u54	Thank you very much. While we are talking about the budget, there is something else that needs to be highlighted. We can't keep comparing ourselves to March of this year. We can't keep talking, until then, the income was like that, unemployment was like that, and then it was like that. We need to talk about comparisons based, if not on a statistical basis, on a period of time, and unfortunately, in this period January-October 2012, January-October 2013 unemployment increased by 7.1%. And these are the essential comparisons. Second. When we talk about the budget, the basic act of economic, social and financial policy, we cannot always say that the 2014 budget proposed by the previous government was based on this and this, and we are no better than before. No, you actually have to in the new circumstances, this government has to plan the budget in new circumstances, not compared to the previous government, but compared to the real data that they are today. And today we have a tax collected on the income of legal persons 40%, so we should pick it up. I know you can say that there were 110 million returns in April 2013 or 2012 but I'm sorry, that's not enough; that's not enough because this year we're also going to have to pay the tax back, we have non-economic growth and we have, according to the latest data, that the profits of companies are lower and the losses are higher, which means tax returns. The following things, in the case of the property tax, do not forget the increased centralisation, which means that the municipalities will be less independent, in a worse situation and also people in their local communities will therefore have a lower level of services offered by the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u56	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State! The budget is indeed the most important document of the country this year. That is why I am extremely sorry, I am now the sixth debater, after the views of the political parties have been presented, and here is only one minister, Mr Stepišnik I consider this to be good for you, the others are no longer here. So, ministers somehow don't listen to us; they don't listen to us, I know that for a long time. The budget or this meeting is also accompanied by the media, so I don't think it's a satisfactory explanation that the President of the Government says you have so much material on the table there, now study it. This must also be made comprehensible to the public. And I missed that! The Minister of Finance is also said to be an expert with two PhDs, he is probably, but unfortunately he is also modest, too modest in words when it comes to presenting the budget. However, I would like to commend Mrs State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance, Mr Matejo Vraničar, who is, indeed, as on committees as here in Parliament, always here, speaking clearly, although she is an expert, we understand her, although we do not always agree with her. And she took over most of the burden of the finance ministry. That is why I thank her, but I have criticism of the others, who should still be here and listen to our discussions. I would like to make some comments on the implementation of the Prime Minister, Ms Alenka Bratušek, although Mrs Alenka Pavlič has an excellent advocate in her honourable delegation, not to say even a lawyer. I would rather expect the president of the Committee on the Economy to be an economic advocate and not talk about the wet dreams of the economy. The Prime Minister of the Government spoke of a fair redistribution of taxes. The real estate tax law is not fair to me and we will talk about it in particular, but it would only point out that it is a tax on favour and a basis for the new nationalisation of agricultural holdings. Whoever built it so that he could work better and more, both in agriculture and in the economy, will be punished for it. Whoever enjoyed it and made sure that he had nothing to do with it, he wouldn't have to pay high taxes. And by doing so, we realize the principle that we heard many times, some years ago, that we should spend as much as possible because saving is not worth it. Madam President of the Government said that all pensions were paid. That's right. Pensions are not social transfers, they are earned income due to past work. That's right. What, though, about those supplements due to greater or lesser merits? It would be right to make strong cuts here, linear, because the Constitutional Court or the Administrative Court said so. I think we have a backup here, and we haven't touched them. The president said that citizens don't have to go abroad. What about the young unemployed? Every day we hear new stories. Although I say it is right that, if possible, they also go abroad for a while, to gather new knowledge, experience, come back, we will gladly accept it – and that is not the case. I don't understand this policy to import doctors from all over the world, but here we have invested a lot in medicine, and doctors who have already specialized must go abroad. I don't understand this policy. Then we have 118 thousand 700 and some unemployed, but I hear again and again entrepreneurs who don't get workers for some professions. I think there's a hidden reserve here, too. The president said we're building bridges and roads together. Yes, together! I am also in favour of doing a lot of things together, to hear that we understand that we are well-intentioned, kind; but unfortunately, I have repeatedly found that I have supported many of the laws already proposed by the coalition and, on the other hand, very supportive amendments, even though there are arguments on our side. I heard some interesting wisdom days ago. I think we should write it here at the top of Parliament to make everyone watch it, every time a coalition and every time an opposition, and take that into account, and this wisdom says that we are dead and an asshole does not change their views. Many times we have many arguments and always insist on our views, so this inscription would be extremely appropriate for Parliament. The real estate tax will be fairly distributed for all according to the value of the property. That's what the President of the Government said. But when we hear how valuable this property is, I can't believe it. A goat in Ljubljana is valued at EUR 300,000, a villa in Prekmurje at EUR 1000, a barn for ten livestock heads at EUR 120,000, and we will not be able to complain. I don't know if there's gonna be a fair tax on the value of the property. Whoever has a lot will have to give a lot, he says. Whoever worked is good and saves, so he will be punished. The one who enjoyed it will continue to do so with permission and even with State encouragement. In New Slovenia, we tell Christian Democrats who, without work, have been rich, who traded land and earned a fair share of the money, who robbed the banks, they should return it. And here we still have a lot of spares. The president of the Committee on Finance presented quite a few of the opposition's views on unannounced revenue or expenditure. So the expenditure for the deleted, where Slovenia will be generous – so they say we must be generous – then additional funds for public administration. The former Minister of Finance has already said that when Mr Virant is going to negotiate with the unions, it will have to be reopened and this practice seems to continue. Then European funds will not be used to the extent planned – a major damage to Slovenia. And where is the proceeds of privatisation, the ransom? We don't see it right either. And because of all this, I do not think that this budget is very credible, although I am well-intentioned and kind, and I would be happy to believe what the President of the Government says, how will we solve all things ourselves, how we are doing better, how all the indicators show this. I will be very happy, and I will congratulate all of us if this happens, even though I have doubts, but the next spring it will probably be the hour of truth, only then there will be no excuses that the previous government has done it, but as I said, I will congratulate you, I will be happy if we all do better. I think that we can only solve these problems by promoting economic growth – not by higher taxes, but by lower taxes, because we need new jobs – by reducing public administration, even some coalition Members talk about it, but in the end we have not reduced public administration, it is not more effective and work is not rewarded, but education. Education is rewarded with us, not work, so our public administration is also ineffective. They're good workers, they're definitely good workers, but they're also good workers who probably don't deserve their wages. And by moving the country out of the economy, which should be the next step, it is necessary to further encourage our citizens, who have many virtues, only to encourage them. Entrepreneurship, creativity, self-initiativeism, all of these are kind of degraded virtues in our country, because it's not worth it because it's worth it more to spend and not to save. To waste and not work. That is why I will say that this budget does not have my support, but I will be happy if it actually does. I say that this budget is a non-trust to working citizens, even though the President of the Government will receive a hundred percent confidence. And even though I am optimistic, and I say that we must be optimistic if we are to think about what happened in the Philippines, we must be truly optimistic and happy and content to live in such normal situations, even though we have so many and so many billions of holes, so we must be optimistic, we must keep working. But the scissors and the canvas are mostly in the hands of the coalition. We're not guessing, I just hope the dress is properly made. You made it, you sewed it, I just hope it's not too small in the spring.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting from me! In the third grade of elementary school, I decided to start saving for a bike. Until then, I didn't have a new bike, and I wanted it for my bike exam. I was good at putting the dinars back on the line, and when I thought that was big enough, I asked my father if that would be enough for a new bike. He said, "Oh, no! Your bike was consumed by inflation." I didn't understand what it meant at the time, I just remember being very sad. These were those days of the beginning of the end of the Yugoslav story that could have ended less tragic if there had been more mutual cooperation, dialogue and tolerance. Today, after two decades of deciding for myself the key documents of the country and wondering whether to undermine or vote in favour of the 2014 draft budget, I find the situation incredibly similar to my youth story, except that the problem is no longer inflation, but interest. As my bike has taken inflation, today's interest on credit, which allows us to maintain some of the rights acquired, is taking away our children's right to a better future. A good tenth of the 2013 budget will be intended to service the debt, to pay the debts of the past that we have hired to ensure the development of our society, but I have my own doubts as to how these funds have been spent. The budget ahead of us is 8.6 billion revenue and 9.6 billion expenditure. We're spending a billion euros, despite everything more than we create, and we're missing exactly the billion we're spending on interest. Therefore, I say that interest becomes the cancer tissue of our public finances, which we must carefully but decisively cut out and heal forever. The bright sides of the draft budget are that the projected deficit is estimated at below 3% of GDP, that investment funds are increasing and that funds are expected to start up the economy. For example, tourism promotions are available €56 million, 8 million more this year, incentives for growth and business development are increasing by €31 million to €37 million, regional development will receive €63 million, or 35 million more this year. All these measures support and commend international organisations as well. The darker side, however, is the cuts that we need to make on account of the interest already mentioned, also in those who would have previously earned more money than less. In these very days, watercourses are spilling through our country, reptiles and storms are raging, and there will again be representatives of voluntary firefighters and Civil Protection. Sadly, we do not have to say anything encouraging to them either. The State will also save them, and we can only thank them for the mission they carry out and ask them for their patience and understanding. The budget also provides support to Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek and her government. However, this support cannot be unconditional. We expect its commitment to structural reforms in 2014, the reforms we need to adopt must not be merely cosmetic adjustments, for makeup and creativity, a superficial patch of holes – the time has passed. Reforms need to be taken seriously, which will not only last a few months, but for several years. I look forward to reforming education and health, including labour market reform and pension reform have not been sufficiently rooted. In the meantime, we can simplify our lives for citizens by some rapid measures. Why do we need a national knowledge check? Do we really need 300 regulated professions? Do we not trust the citizens and that is why the country gets involved in their lives at every turn? The country still owns more than 500 companies, whose management is unfortunately more aimed at parking political personnel than real management. The time has come for these companies to finally liberate state chains and breathe freely on the market. The burden of the economy must be ended. Entrepreneurship needs a stable tax environment that will allow longer-term planning, and the economy also needs some incentives in the given circumstances. As they put it, they need oxygen. Some measures have been more nitrogen than oxygen in recent months, but with the new budget, the so-called rehabilitation of the banking system and more investment funds are promising, which is welcome and positive. Recently, a young family spoke to me in the center of Zagorje. My father complained that he'd been out of a job for months, at home. His son next to him boasted proudly: "Yes, every day in kindergarten he can pick me up after lunch." A warm children's statement, which at the same time also cruelly illustrates Slovenian reality. The budget takes place in many areas and gives in few areas. Clearly, no one is particularly pleased with him. But I'm saying he's real, painfully real. I will support the budget because I know that it is necessary to fight to the end and to strive to preserve the hope for our children. Today, I also ask the Prime Minister as well as ministers in public: will we be able to make reforms that will mean less involvement of the country and more personal freedom? Will we be able to make reforms that will help create new quality jobs and improve the situation of our society before the future of the Zagorska street boy, his peers across Slovenia and his parents are completely lost? I hope we can make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u60	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In today's debate, it has been repeated that every budget reflects the policy of the current government. Perhaps it is right to intrude on the fundamental difference between the economic policy of the current government and that of the economic policy of the government in which we have been involved. This government has clearly decided to increase taxes when regulating public finances. Ours has decided to cut expenses. That is why our main service is the ZUJF and your main service is the value added tax and real estate tax. This is a fundamental conceptual difference between your government and ours. Here questions are asked, which path is more right – the one you take, the way you raise taxes, or the one we take, the way you lower public spending. Many theories and large-scale public debates have developed on these two paths. The opponents of saving have always stressed — and you were among them when you said that saving takes people and exacerbates the spiral of crisis. But on the other hand, those who are opposed to the higher taxes that you are now raising are also saying that your taxes are also taking on people. What's the difference? Taxing means taking on everyone, while cutting off the state's expenditure is primarily cutting off those related to the public sector. At first glance, the difference may be very small, but really very large. You take those who today are the only ones who create real value and contribute to this budget, from which the whole public sector is paid. If you are also burdening these, then it may very soon happen that there will be no one else to pay for this budget. I will once again set a fundamental dilemma, which path is more right — lowering public spending or raising taxes? Facts, but not only Slovenian, but if you look across the border and look around Europe a little bit, you can see that so far no country in the grip of the crisis has been able to recover by increasing taxes. Not one. But there are already some positive signs, as well as some countries that have recovered because they have cut into public spending. So that I don't just think about it and someone doesn't say I'm talking about it, I'm going to give you a concrete example of Spain. Why did I choose the exact case of Spain? Because I think that Slovenia and Spain are relatively similar to the country in their problems and that two years ago we were in the same zone in the same trouble. What were we like? We all had major problems in the banking system, we all had a large budget deficit and we all had a failed construction sector. The relative similarity between Slovenia and Spain. But the fundamental difference, if you look at it today, is that Slovenia is still deep in crisis, while Spain already shows the first signs of recovery. When I was recently in Madrid and had the opportunity to ask Spanish Prime Minister Marian Rajoy what that miracle wand was, in Spain they solved the problems and now they're on their way to a recovery, he said the following. That at the beginning of the crisis they too tried to solve the matter very much like Slovenia. They didn't want to cut into public spending because they were afraid of the public. They increased taxes and eventually found that even if they raised VAT, they did not collect that money. In the end, they found that the strategy, the way work needed to be changed, and they began to reduce public expenditure, reduce public sector wages and actively start to rehabilitate the banking system. When the banking system was being rehabilitated, they finally admitted and stopped pretending to solve the problems themselves, but they asked for European assistance. Why? Because this European aid was cheaper. Today, economic growth in Spain is rising, the number of unemployed is decreasing, exports are increasing. What about us? And we're stagnating about the same. That I'd be even more aware of what we've been doing and what you're doing now. You or the current government are extremely similar to the first actions of the Spanish government, and there the warm water is discovered — this measure or such a way of solving the crisis has not produced results. What did we do? We have done the things that the Spanish government is now doing and that have produced results. We cut our expenses. This is why we have adopted an extremely unpopular ZUJF. We cut salaries in the public sector, which was also very unpopular. We laid the groundwork for the bad bank that you were trying to stop and demolish at the time. We have also laid the foundations for better management of Slovenian state property. I think it is clear that we have tried to resolve this crisis and this situation in the same way as the Spanish Government has addressed it and it appears that there are some concrete results. This road is extremely unpopular. We have been and are still most likely extremely unpopular because of the ZUJF and similar measures. Even today, if you ask the Spaniards what they think about Rajoy, they will tell you a lot of bad things, as people knew at the time, and you will say a lot of hard things to us. But the fact is that only such a policy – unfortunately, that is what the facts show throughout Europe – gives results. A colleague in front of me talked about the interest burdening us. Of course we are, but something has to be done to keep us from being burdened. This means that our public spending and our expenditure must be reduced, that we do not spend much more than we create, and that it will be much less necessary for the debt. This is primarily the responsibility of the current government coalition. Excessive, limitless spending does not bring results. Those who advocate that the state must spend, that it must not completely save anywhere, not in the public sector or elsewhere, ask you why such concepts were not successful in Greece, why such a concept is not successful in France today. At the time of the presidential campaign, Hollande also promised that all this saving or reduction — saving is the wrong expression — cutting, cutting down public finances is totally pointless and unnecessary, but today we find out that he was wrong, and France is now deeply in crisis. The fact is that spending across our borders destroys us, perhaps not in the short term, because you can meet some of the needs of individual social groups, but in the long term certainly, through interest, which will increase year after year and, as many have already said – and I agree with that – we simply place the responsibility or burden on future generations. What will we Christian Democrats need to do or propose? We definitely think that the tax burden needs to be reduced. At first glance, this may seem strange, but a lower tax burden will mean some job more, and that job will be more income in the state budget. I hope that we all understand this point together, that with a smaller tax burden at the end of the day we can also bring more money into the state budget. The State will have to be withdrawn from the economy in order to [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] I think I'm running out of time, so I'll see you next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Tonin. The Secretary of State, Mrs Mateja Vraničar, also made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! With regard to the statement on the revenue and expenditure side of the 2014 budget, I would like to repeat some of the things that I have advocated in all the process of adopting the 2014 budget changes and the 2015 budget. I would focus on the issue of the budget. The issues related to the real estate tax will be left aside at this time, as we will be able to discuss this extensively within one of the following agenda items of the current meeting. It was obvious that the budget was planned unrealistically both on the revenue and on the expenditure side. However, we need to give some facts or some starting points on which the figures presented in the draft budget are based, which are why we claim that the budget is planned in real terms. If we first look at the revenue side of the budget and focus in this context on tax revenues. Implementation in 2012 was 6 billion and a half. The estimate for this year is 6 billion 240 million. The adopted budget, which was adopted at approximately the same time last year, predicted 6 billion 890 million tax revenues. The proposal for amending the budget provides for 6 billion 863 million tax revenue for 2014. Unlike last year's budget, which was not accompanied by concrete measures to increase taxes, which were announced in the budget memorandum, but were not approved or even submitted to the National Assembly for examination, this figure of this year's budget, 6 billion 863 million, is now supported by concrete tax measures. In principle, it is not possible to provide additional revenue on the revenue side without the decision of the National Assembly. As a result, any rise in the tax rate, any change in the tax system is very transparent, as an appropriate legislative procedure must be carried out. On the other hand, it is possible to carry out a series of measures on the expenditure side that do not require intervention by the National Assembly, however. About the expenditure side of the budget a little later. If I focus on individual items of tax revenue and estimates for next year. The non-reality of corporate income tax planning has been repeatedly exposed. Let's look at the realisation in 2012. 576 million were realised in this tax. This year's reality assessment is 264 million and a half. Why is there such a difference? Due to the large-scale repayments of overpayments paid by companies in 2012, the tax rate was reduced by two percentage points in 2012 and the increased tax incentives for R & D investments and the general investment facilitation. I submit that the advances made on the basis of this year's corporate income tax accounts are more realistic. Since there will be no further reduction in tax rates and since a measure restricting the transfer of losses to the next tax period has already been introduced last year, I estimate that the estimate of revenue of EUR 421 million for corporate income tax is realistic. This also strengthens me in the fact that if we look at the figures from the second point of view, the figures from the perspective of the taxes paid by legal persons, then the value of the tax charged in 2012 and 2013 and the estimate for 2014 revolves around about the same level – somewhere between EUR 450 and EUR 470 million. This is the difference between the accounting approach to showing revenue and showing revenue after the cash flow, where the repayments already mentioned should be taken into account. On the other hand, if I focus on domestic taxes on goods and services and in particular on value added tax. This year's reality assessment is that we will collect €2 billion 946 million of value added tax revenue this year, and we are planning 3 billion 89 million for next year, which is about 27 million more than planned in the last year's budget. It is true that this year's value added tax was raised by two percentage points and a lower rate by one percentage point. Some of the effects of this lift have already been demonstrated this year and other additional effects are expected in the coming year. Again, the effects measured by the accounting principle or the effects measured by the cash flow vary. However, the implementation of the value added tax in the first months after the rate rise shows that the estimates we made when the law with which the rates have risen show that the value or amount of these duties can be achieved. Nevertheless, we are planning in the draft amending budget for almost 100 million lower revenues than were planned in the adopted budget for this year. An important deviation on the revenue side of the budget for next year is also in the area of the funds to be received from the European Union. Here we expect more than 200 million higher revenues than estimated this year's realisation, or as far as was planned in the adopted budget, to account for the postponement of some investments in the coming year and the relaunching or new start-up of the new financial perspective in 2014. If I continue to focus on the expenditure side, it is imperative to take into account savings according to individual expenditure items. Salaries and contributions for public sector employees have already been mentioned. This year, measures were subsequently taken to ensure that public sector wage expenditure did not increase or that we could at least provide approximately what was planned in the budget adopted last year. In this way, we have saved more than €100 million in the public sector for this year. For next year, this savings will amount to €185 million across the public sector. The planned expenditure on goods and services is also falling significantly. Implementation in 2012 was 682, almost 683 million. 644 million is envisaged this year, and in the coming year we are planning a realization of 573 million, almost 574 million. This reduction in expenditure on goods and services is not only due to smaller purchases or smaller purchases by individual budget users, but also due to savings that can be achieved through better procurement planning or by more common public procurement. This is part of the savings mentioned in the debate today. In all the cuts in public expenditure, however, there are two items that urgently need to be increased if we are to implement the budget in 2014 in line with projections. These are the items relating to interest payments, which were completely unrealistic in the adopted budget, and the expenditure for transfers to the pension register, where the effects of accelerated retirement appear this year, and in the coming year we hope that the number of new pensioners and new pensioners will be settled. However, there is still a need to provide additional funds for transfers to social security funds. Nevertheless, all other transfers are also declining according to the 2012 realisation or the 2013 realisation assessment, with the exception of investments and investment transfers, where the level of such expenditure is still maintained at the level, if we look at all items together, about a billion 300 million for 2014. With all this data, I want to show that this budget is planned carefully and thoughtfully, that it is designed so that, in the given circumstances, it enables the execution of not only the most urgent things, but also within the limits of what is possible, it allows for the care of the social security of people in Slovenia and also for economic development. Economic development measures are moving from grant-providing measures to measures that provide resources that are, at least in principle, recoverable. Even though they are conditional, we expect that a large part of these funds will need to find another way of action at the final stage. However, this is a normal mechanism for so-called financial engineering, where public and private resources are pooled and thus enables pools of more resources to be allocated to the development and assistance of the economy. When we look at all these measures, we can see that at this point, as the Minister has already said, the ratio of measures taken by the Government on the revenue and expenditure side is about half. However, as it is said, measures at the expenditure level are not only those discussed by the National Assembly, but also measures that can be implemented by other measures, either by operational tasks or through the different implementation of individual procedures. We expect these measures to yield additional results in the coming year. Finally, negotiations with the social partners on the volume of public sector wage funds for 2015 and the following years will continue in the coming year. As has already been said, for 2013 and 2014, these agreements were concluded in May of this year. Let me get this straight. This budget is not and cannot be the result of creative accounting. Accounting is a knowledge that cares about recording business events after they happen. We are talking about the revenue assessment and we are talking about the expenditure plan. I claim, and I am behind these words, that the budget is planned as realistically as possible in terms of circumstances, both on the revenue and on the expenditure side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm opening up an opportunity to report to the debate. In this round, 13 panellists applied. The first one is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to comment on a few things about the budget. First, I'd like to say something to the opening part of Mrs. Prime Minister. The material we received, which says that foreign media began to write when it took over government leadership, about Slovenia as the next country to be forced to ask for financial assistance – the Prime Minister knows very well that in 2011, when the European Commission found that our public debt, the debt of the country, had doubled in just three years, it had established a special group that had been observing Slovenia, what was doing or what was happening, that we had so greatly increased our debt. When the government of Janez Janša worked last year, when pension reform and labour legislation were adopted in autumn, when the Bad Bank Act and the Slovenian State Holding Act were also under the roof, it dissolved this group early this year, January 2013, and found that Slovenia had taken the necessary steps, necessary reforms and that it would continue with them. You will not believe when she awakened her again – when the government of Alenka Bratušek in the National Assembly adopted the rebalancing of this year’s budget and again increased the deficit. So much for that and the claims she made. She also said that her government was the first one to take the fight against the grey economy seriously. That's not true, and the lady knows that very well. In 2006, a new Law on the Tax Procedure was adopted, and with 1. 1. Some things have entered into force in 2007. That was when the procedures for determining the property of natural persons and so on began. For these changes, a few people had to be replaced earlier – leadership at Durs, including the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, because until then it felt that those people were there to avoid finding out something, not to find out. Now there's something else about finance or the projected revenue in the state budget. Although the Secretary of State has said a few things, the fact is that in times of crisis it is assumed that at the expense of tax inflows we will receive the third largest tax in the entire history of Slovenia, while we all know what situation we are in, that we have only had such a greater inflow in pre-crisis years, in 2007 and 2008, a little bit of hair drawn, and I find it hard to believe that people can believe you. You guarantee how difficult we are, and this is also an excuse to raise taxes, but you write down that you will pick up a little less than we picked up in 2007 and 2008, when everything was blooming. We don't believe you, and I don't think people believe you. Those measures that you consider to be positive for the economy and so on – only as a result of VAT hikes has the consumption increased everywhere. For example, the health insurance company will therefore need 16 million new money, knowing that there is no money in the health register, that the problem is that we have to adopt and adopt an intervention law that will give us 30 million. Half of them can be given immediately to raise VAT. If you give with one hand and break it with the other, it's Sisyphus' work, and you won't have any of it. You wrote that you will be in the second half of this year, from 1. 7. collected 125 million VAT. After your projection, you have already reduced this – to pick up 51 million more than last year, which is the difference of 74 million euros. That's logical — you can't pick it up anymore because people are starting to spend less. From June to July alone, private spending fell by 3.4%, and will still fall and fall because what Mrs Bratušek says, and some of you have quoted the budget as demanding, cost-effective, sometimes risky, but nowhere dangerous, and that is social justice when the government raised VAT – raising taxes are the poorest. Richer can give up certain supplements, hairdressers, superstandards, someone who lives on average wages and who spends the same amount of money in the store about every month, but can't cancel a lot of things, which means that we hit him much more than someone else. So to say that we have not been harmed and that, I don't know, we live even safer lives because of taxes – which planet is this Mrs. Bratuškova from, if she thinks that people live more safely because they have to pay more taxes?Oh, my God! It doesn't make any sense! You say you give more money for businesses, for new jobs, but at the same time as you raise taxes and extra burdens, you destroy and fail many businesses. To fail, it's reflected in every step of the way. We have more unemployed people every day. 120 grand is the last number, and by giving someone something, and on the other hand, you lose your job, you increase your unemployment, you reduce your economic activity, it's like I said, Sizif's work. Maybe that's all. In the coalition contract, agreement between coalition parties, and also in the stability programme you sent to Brussels, you wrote down how you will consolidate public finances: by reducing the budget deficit with a focus on rationalising public spending [[Reduction of wages and rationalisation]] , in the extreme case of VAT increases. This extreme has occurred two months after you have occupied the government or even less. You know this isn't real. You didn't want to go to the public administration, which we all know we have too much, and that's why you didn't want to go to that end of the matter. I estimate that this will only bring the problem back into the future, because we will have to do so sooner than before. Every day we read about people in public administration who could have been retired for 10 or more years — only in health care there are 250 of them — while young people are waiting. We know that if someone were to retire, it would be a four-fold lower budget burden than if someone had a solid or even an average salary at this age. With all the benefits and contributions, that's four times what he would have had as a pensioner. But it's no problem for older people to hang out at work until I don't know when, and young people to be at the employment office if they don't get away from us. Politics is wrong. You will not bring the country out of the crisis by raising taxes because, as you say, when you raise taxes, you will destroy something on the other side. This is what Mr Egon Zakrošek has already told you, who said: "A rise in taxes can bring exactly the opposite, even more grey economy in such situations. Revenue estimates are very optimistic. I doubt the government could calculate what they'd actually be." Here too – Sisyphus' work. We will kill again thousands and millions of euros to chase down the grey economy that we have caused by an unwise tax hike.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jeraj. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today we have heard that Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek is not ready to answer some specific questions. As far as I'm aware, the Prime Minister of the Government has announced herself and is ready to join the SDS. There was no listening to her coming and explaining things. It is not only a hunch, but a clear message that they do not want to have specific answers to specific questions, but that they tell the public here how arrogant the President and the whole government are to the opposition. I have also heard today – a young fellow member of the Christian Democrats' Group said that the path they are defending is the only right one. You know, respectable young fellow, don't talk about the only right way. I have been in the world for quite some time, and I know that the only way is not that there can be a better and worse way, that there can be a path that is short-term, that leads in the short term to a goal or one that leads in the long term to development and a solution. I have also heard that the path chosen by the previous ZUJF government is better than the one advocated by this government, which advocates public education, public health and social welfare. With the ZUJF, it has been quite clear that the Constitutional Court has had several reservations to some of the decisions that this government must now correct, and this is also an intervention in a public financial debt. So, you know, there are different paths. I advocate the path chosen by this government, which once again provides public education, public health and social security. This budget is not so good as to be quick. There's still a lot of spares. Above all, there are reserves of this one that have been brought to the attention of the President of the Government and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, as well as of us in all these debates that have taken place on the committees. Reserves are in recovery because the public sector, as well as the state administration, will have to be rehabilitated. It will be urgent to do so, but not with cuts, but with some restructuring plan to review, to put up albeit new systemisations. To determine, for example, whether the Ministry of Defence needs the General Staff and the Command of the Slovenian Armed Forces, whether or not a two-headed leadership is needed and so on. I am convinced that a lot of these efforts must be made so that the issue on the expenditure side will be settled and consolidated in the long term. However, I am pleased that on the income side, the budget is development-oriented to give the economy more resources. I am confident that the Ministry will be able to do more in the area of value added, because it is important that the revenue is greater than the expenditure, and we can then float out. Mr. Minister, we are all aware of this, but it has to be done. You haven't been Minister once, but repeatedly, and you're well aware of that. That is why I will support this budget. Because, look, in one year, if I give you just the case, last October and this year October, and the registration of new cars. Surprisingly, the registration of new passenger cars increased by 23% in Slovenia! Last October and this year, our government is not yet in government. That means something's done, and that's a good sign. Because of this, you know, I wouldn't rely so much on strangers, not just because I never personally relied on what anyone could do to me, help me, or advise me, but mainly on myself – that's the word "reliant on your own keys" – on my ability and on my adaptability. Let Slovenia continue to do this. We Slovenians have proven that we can do this. That is why I will support this government and this budget, both budgets. I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, that if you do not already have concrete recommendations on what to do, then at least people will not be intimidated and say that the President of the Government has not been prepared to come to you and explain to you how this budget has come about, how this budget brings new solutions to Slovenia's coming out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u67	Mr. Visjak, a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u68	Madam Vice President, I must protest procedurally. Indeed, Mr Jožef Kavtičnik said that the President of the Government was ready to come and explain certain things to us. I never know this readiness, but it is true that she invited us to the presentation of the budget during the meeting of the National Assembly. It's a big difference whether you come to explain to some parliamentary group or there at some rallies of everyone when you want to present something to them in an hour, and even during the current work of Parliament. That is why I protest and ask you to remind Mr Kavticnik, because here he is misleading the Slovenian public. Not us Members, because we know what he has now allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u69	Would you like to make a procedural proposal, Mr. Kavticnik? Mr. Kavtičnik, we wouldn't answer. If you have a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u70	Yes, I have a procedural proposal that colleague Vizjak asked me to do something that he himself said - that Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek was willing to answer their question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u71	Mr. Kavticnik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u72	Either she came there or she didn’t come, or she invited them to come to her — I apologize if that’s the case. But she was ready, President of the Government, to explain and say about the budget! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u73	Good. Mr. Kavtičnik obviously apologized for the wrong allegations. We've cleared up the situation. We continue with Mrs Mirjam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The consideration of the 2014 budget changes is certainly not linked to great satisfaction or enthusiasm. I feel like I'm at a football game that's not the best, and it's certainly not what everyone wants because we're cheering for it, and the other we're against when we should actually get together for the best possible results in the future. Due to extreme economic uncertainty, this budget is much more stable than development and brings the necessary financial consolidation in a way to achieve economic growth as soon as possible. I believe that the budget is adequate and sustainable in view of the current situation in the country. It is important that we maintain public education, public health and social status. Despite the fact that we are talking about a crisis budget where, on the one hand, we are weighing the requirements of the European Union and, on the other hand, social rights and the social state, I am convinced that the changes to the proposed budget follow both the requirements of the European Union and the preservation of the social state. Know, it is not easy for us and we do not care for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, especially for young people, whom we are devoting to today. Young ones are the ones who should not, or at least should not, feel the difficult times that parents spend in caring for their family’s survival. Young people must have decent education conditions. Education is the one that represents light in life. The government advocates that education programmes support education in the field of deficient professions, where employment opportunities are greater. I think it is very important that, despite austerity measures or reductions in education expenditure, we maintain the quality of implementation of school programmes. I am also pleased that science is increasing, as I am convinced that investing in science is one of the best ways to get Slovenia out of the crisis. Unfortunately, however, investments in education have been significantly reduced and I only hope that they will not slow down year after year. I am also pleased that in the 2014 budget changes, additional funds are allocated to the rescue and restructuring of healthy core companies and that no new tax measures are foreseen for 2014. This means that companies will also know what burdens await them and that they will normally be able to plan their investments and their business and invest in R & D. Both budgets and the government with Lady Mag. I'll support Alice Brother at the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u76	Your Honor! When we talk about the 2014 budget, something is certain. It is certain that almost everything about the revenue side is uncertain, but first I will start with the expenditure side of the budget for 2014. The government is approximately maintaining existing spending, as regards the salaries of public servants and employees. It therefore preserves some current consumption for the functioning of the country at the same level as estimated for this year, taking into account the two tranches of elimination of wage imbalances that will follow in 2014 and 2015, as agreed. We are not reducing anything in this area, but we are increasing something when we talk about functioning, about wages, about running costs. There is certainly an increase in the cost of renting domestic and foreign loans by around EUR 100 million. It is also true that there will be an increase in expenditure for the unemployed and also for social transfers, as we are expected to see an increase in our unemployment rate or an increase in our unemployment rate in relation to last year. It is very difficult for me to listen to these arguments of the Prime Minister when he speaks of the unemployment rate. I can only tell you that in October 2011 some 110 000 people were unemployed, that we kept this rate at the same number in 2012 – even in October 2012 there were 110 000 people without a job, registered unemployed – and that this October there were 118 thousand people registered, for 8 thousand more. Madam Prime Minister, once again, it will have to be proved that months are being compared to months because there are very strong seasonal influences. Indeed, we know that in October the unemployed are coming, that it is the most unemployed in winter, that it is the least unemployed in summers. Compare March and October is incorrect. They compare the same months of different years, and this is where you've grown 8,000 unemployed. I believe this number will grow in the future, because I don't know why not. In fact, economic downturn and recession are announced by all also for the coming year, and the high risk remains whether 2015 will be a green light or something positive, as this will only be assuming that the measures to remedy the banking system will be taken and that the credit crunch will be lifted in the second half of next year. If we sum up the expenditure side, we see that virtually all of our expenditure will increase, all of our current expenditure, and the government also boasts that there will be no less investment, but that it will accelerate the absorption of European funds. There'll be more expenses. On the other hand, we have a problem with income. That's why, Your Honor, you planned new taxes and raise existing taxes. As a result, they follow these intentions after covering these expenses with incomes of great risk. I will only mention three key risks after my assessment, which should also be taken into account by a slightly more conservative policy on the expenditure side. The first risk is that due to the fall in gross domestic product, the corporate income tax will also fall in the coming year. I had previously listened carefully to the Secretary of State when she mentioned how much taxes on the income of legal persons were collected in 2012 and how much in 2013, and it would probably be considered that some arithmetical environment was what was collected in both years of this tax, because in 2013 something was repaid for 2012. It is also likely that in 2012 something was returned for 2011 and so on. Here, however, the Government is planning, as if there were no continuing declines in economic activity, still a similar level of corporate income tax, which is at least 100 million unrealistic. The figures will show during the implementation of the budget next year. Another major risk is what will happen to the resolution of the banking system and not least with the identified bank hole. We have €1.2 billion in the budget for the treatment of banks, for the recapitalisation of banks, and we don't even know if this money will be sufficient to cover how much more of this money will be needed. This uncertainty also raises an extremely large question to the whole budget. The third major uncertainty is the effects of raising VAT, as well as the introduction of a new real estate tax. The big question is how much of this tax is actually going to happen. Maybe he'll settle for it. What will happen to all the procedures that will follow, complaints and non-payments, but it is a big question. On the one hand, there are quite a number of risks regarding the revenue side and we also have a relatively underestimated expenditure side. I am confident that, unfortunately, the implementation of the budget will show in the coming year that our budget deficit will increase to a greater extent than anticipated. This, however, is the worst thing to do for the preservation of the social state or for all that you say this budget provides. For if at least some of the opposition's forecasts are fulfilled, that the revenue side is too optimisticly planned and that the expenditure side is unrealized, that there will be more – for example, I am sure that the expenditure side is undervalued by a few ten million when we are talking about unemployment benefits. If this is to be done in the same way as at least partially predicted, the deficit will be greater and it will be necessary to cut down on drastic measures that no one wants to achieve. Instead of taking certain measures to manage the expenditure side in a timely manner, we have somehow adopted the logic that we believe that a miracle will happen, that all taxes will be collected, and that people and businesses will be happy to resuscitate and pay these taxes, and that social supporters and the unemployed will be less than official institutions predict. I'm afraid it's impossible to say that. I don't believe in these miracles. I'm afraid this treasury for our Slovenia will come perhaps six months or three quarters of a year late. Unfortunately, then the problems will be even more accumulated than they are, and the time to solve them is even less.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u77	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u78	So there won't be any deceiving. October and March cannot be compared, but I can compare – colleague Vizjak, you said that unemployment had been reduced during your government's time. If we look at the figures for March 2012 and March 2013, when your government was your government, unemployment was 10% higher when your government was your government. So we wouldn't be fooling around right now. It's true it's not October, but it's March-March.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u79	Thank you. He explained that you probably did not get along well in the discussions. That's what the replica was meant for. There's no replica on the replica, but you'll have the opportunity procedurally. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u80	The honourable President of the National Assembly, what Mr Jožef Kavtičnik said was not a replica. Because I didn't refer to him in a single sentence in my own debate, and I don't know why he replicated it to me. All I said was that in October 2011 there were 110 000 unemployed and that we also maintained this rate in October 2012. If we compare what this government has achieved by comparing October 2013, we can see that there are 8,000 of these. I don't see a problem with that at all. I do not see what Mr Kavtičnik has replicated, because these data are official, are published on the website of the Statistical Office and also the Employment Office and are accurate. I was referring to them. In this case, it wasn't a replica, it was an objection to my debate, and you let it happen. Thank you for letting him have my replica, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u81	Thank you. Obviously it was a misunderstanding in both cases, so I hope that the matter is now clarified. However, it will be possible to continue to exchange views and data in the discussions. The next debater is Mr Mikhael Prevc, who will prepare himself for Mr Bevk alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished secretary of state, co-workers of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! If such a budget as we have on the table were to be dealt with in some normal times, I admit that it could even be good. Although the public deficit is still very high, its expenditure does not virtually deviate from last year's. At that time, I could say: thank God, let's cut back on the country's expenditure and try to do as much as possible on the income side. Unfortunately, we all know that this is not the case and that times are not normal. It breaks when a person looks at the realisation for 2012 and finds that we expect more than €730 million. In 2012, we already managed to limit spending slightly below 8 billion, and today there are again 8.6 billion euros. This is certainly not the austerity of the budget. The figures are speaking, and the figures are very clear indicating unfortunately very negative trends: public debt growth, unemployment growth, an ever-increasing number of pensioners and fewer employees, the unsustainable scope of the public sector and so on. Let us be honest, while most other European countries are already experiencing economic growth, we have just fallen into crisis. This is also due to the closure of the eyes of the then policy, in particular in the years 2009-2012, where we still somehow survived on the wings at that time very cheap loans. Approximately €8 billion were these borrowed funds, which we will pay back well for at least the next 10 years. So today, for interest and public debt alone, we devote 10% of everything in this budget, everything we read in this budget, about EUR 940 million. Almost 500 interest per Slovenian is paid by the State of the Republic of Slovenia, as has already been said today. Although I could now start a demagogy about the social state and sell out how many schools and hospitals we could build, how many children's allowances we could raise, how many pensions, scholarships and the like, it's only time to get out of this political skin and look where this is taking our country. The key problem is that no one dares to publicly acknowledge the reality of the situation. That's right. We're gonna have to get the citizens to rehabilitate the banks. We know that now, and that's inevitable, but what was done in this place? Did you lock up any bankers? Did you lock up any responsible persons? Did you lock up any supervisors? And first of all, why is the bad bank okay today and one year ago it wasn't? People to say that they are not responsible for this crisis is very nice and attractive, but citizens already know that. They are more interested in being held accountable for the situation we are in, and they are interested in what we will do in the future. In the case of such interest, with so much unemployment, in the case of so many problems in the banking system, I am very afraid that this country is simply not able to afford the expenditure you are spending in this budget if there is at least a little hope that we, as a country, remain financially sovereign. What do I miss most about this government? Most of all, I miss the will to make system improvements, after changes, after reforms, after different, more efficient systematisation. You have reduced the material resources to the police – just an example. Okay, but what does that mean? That the cops would sit in the offices for more time and be less on the ground. It's similar to inspectors, health workers and the like. Is it possible that you just went to the reorganisation of the public administration for a little bit? Have you dared to look at the school system, the health system, at least with a corner of your eye, and suggest more effective solutions? No, you've unfortunately been able to raise a lot of taxes over the past few months, because it's the simplest accounting operation that doesn't require much effort. Indeed, in the economic and infrastructure segment, the Government is increasing funds in a number of areas. That's right. It is also true that you are spitting in your own bowl, as financial incentives on the one hand are eliminated by higher tax burdens, even indirectly by raising value added tax, even though it is a consumer tax, and then by several partial taxes and with the largest, real estate tax. All of this affects businesses, and this also affects workers in them, all espacies, agriculture, forestry. That's exactly how everyone's gonna feel about that tax, even twice. First, they'll pay for their apartment property, then they'll pay a little more for some of the buildings that they managed to build around their house, and thirdly, they'll be hit twice or even triple, because their employer will be affected. This will cause this burden of a higher tax on economic property to fall on them in part. First, what helps to encourage and, on the other hand, to stifle this progress? This just translates from one bowl to another, with the difference that in the process a lot of money disappears into nothing. I wonder on what basis and on what grounds do you imagine that we will start the economy and hire our people, pay our pension to our pensioners if our entrepreneurs and their workers, craftsmen, farmers are strangled, and at the same time, because of the desire to be liked by citizens, you are not ready to fall into any of the systemic problems of this country. While these people who create and pay in the budget ask you for nothing but to leave them alone so that they can carry out their business in peace, without further burdens. I'm sorry, just with the bills and the transfer from the account to the account, the balance sheet won't work. But I really want to know if you really believe this story or if it's just buying time and prolonging it. I have a lot of questions about this budget. The first question is: what if the real estate tax is less than you plan, or if this money is not able to be collected because of the various complications involved in the implementation of this tax? Why such a question? See, the budget foresees that the tax will contribute to the budget of 183 million euros in 2014 and 202 million euros in 2015. In my view, this assessment is not correct, and when we see that the budget is not realistic, I personally have this concern in the first place. Why? In particular, because the tax base, which is the basis for the assessment of the amount of the real estate tax, is based on the general market value of the real estate, as we know, which does not correspond to the actual state of the property and originates from the 5 year old unannounced property inventory, which unfortunately was not carried out by professionally qualified censusers. I am confident that when the taxpayers receive the experimental calculations and then also communicate the comments that Durs will have to take into account that this revenue may even be halved. In addition, the taxpayers for the property tax will adapt to the situation. I'm sure there'll be significantly less tax on non-residential buildings, because people will settle them sooner or later. That's my concern. The next question that comes to me: what if this tax and everyone else completely neutralize your assistance and incentives to the companies you all mention so often? Next question: what if the proceeds of value added tax are not as planned? Many taxes reduce the available income, which also means lower final consumption. What if the European funds spent are not 1.2 billion? This is a very serious concern. What if higher taxes mean more failed companies and thus more unemployed? What does such a hairdressing of income mean for Slovenia's competitiveness in the world? For five years we have been steeply falling down the competitiveness ladder. How are you going to stop this fall? By raising and introducing new taxes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u83	Thank you. The next debater is Mr Only Bevk, to prepare Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! "We must be optimistic," said colleague Ljudmila Novak earlier. I completely agree with her, but how? At the end of this week, a student of the first year of the University of Ljubljana explained to me that after 14 days of intensive study she listened a little more carefully to television reports, to the media, and said she had not heard any positive news – even the weather forecast was bad. How, then, should people in such an atmosphere think optimistically in the general situation in the country? It's like everyone in this country is really a thief and everyone's really stealing. Is no one creating any new added value and it would be worth reporting in the media and creating a positive climate in the country, as colleague Novak mentioned earlier. This is what we need, especially more optimism and more positive attitudes in all of our times. If you're listening to the news and you hear nine bad news, then I think it's a distorted image of our country. Unfortunately, Members, we have no influence, but we have the influence to make good decisions. I hope that we will make as many good decisions as possible in the National Assembly in the coming months, in the coming days, because in the next two weeks, we have a number of meetings, extraordinary and regular. I'd like to thank Minister Mag here first. Stank Stepišnik, Minister who is also responsible for the problem of the Idrija mine, that he listened to the arguments and that together we have found that it is necessary to provide in the budget of the National Assembly for 2014 and for 2015 also funds for the maintenance of the unspoiled part of the mine in Idrija, for monitoring and for the removal of mining damage. In the first proposal, the funds for 2014 were thus withdrawn from the budget. We have now provided 927 000 euros for these tasks, and I hope that this will be enough for us to do things as solidly as we can in 2014 so that there will be no danger to the environment, to the city itself, to the security of the people and to their property. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much again. In this regard, however, there is also a number of tasks to be done, including the conversion of the Idri mercury mine into the Public Institute for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idri. Here's another developmental aspect, for example. Just last month, a global convention on mercury was adopted in Minamata, Japan, which is the Minamata Convention on Mercury, and falls under the UN UNEP environmental programme. This programme, which will be the financial mechanism for the implementation of the Minamata Convention, has a budget of up to $4 billion for the period 2010 to 2014. If we had prepared projects on this subject in our country, we could also draw from these funds, because it is not only the European Union's funds, it is not just credits, it is also other funds at global level that we may be underexploiting, and it is this mechanism to draw on these environmental projects that is worth more than $4 billion at a level of four years. There is also an opportunity to draw additional funds for the budget and for the projects we have in the country. I am not satisfied with all the things in this budget. I would like to see more resources available for the area of cultural heritage in 2014 than is available today. A little less than €800,000 is available in this area for 2014, which is barely 30% of the funds earmarked for the reconstruction and protection of cultural heritage, for example, in the 1996 budget – a major fall for this area. However, we know that investments in cultural heritage are repeatedly recovered, they have multiple effects, and each euro in the reconstruction of cultural heritage, the cultural monument returns 6 times in other areas. I therefore appeal to the National Assembly that, as has already been the case in the 2004 legislative programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and as has been the case with the National Culture Programme 2014-2017, the Act on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, as has been the case so far, as the law expires this year. However, as we are aware of the problems of the public financial situation, we propose to extend this law for a period beginning in 2015 to 2019, and to provide additional funds for the area of culture in 5 programme areas, for the restoration of cultural heritage, for investments in public institutions, for librarianism, for amateur culture and for cultural networks. Let me say that during the period of validity of the cultural tolar or the euro from 1999 to 2013, a total of EUR 95 million was made available and provided in the annual national budgets. For that reason, Slovenian culture could be poorer if we did not have a law on cultural tolar or euro, so I appeal for this law to be adopted. Since last Friday, he is already in the parliamentary procedure, and I hope that he will be able to come to the home cultural committee by the end of this year and then to the plenary session of the National Assembly itself. To see how effective this law has been in the past, I would like to say some successful projects. These are the UNESCO heritage projects in Idrija, then, say, the Castle of Jablje pri Mengš, the labour barracks in Jesenica, the church in Olimja, the Church of St. Spirit in Črnomlje, Ptujska Castle, Strmol Castle, Turjak Castle, Tonovtsov Castle, Piran City Core and St. George Church, Dominican Monastery in Ptuj, Ptujska Gora, synagogue in Maribor, cod core in Kropa, Stanjel, castles in Podsred, Metlika and Ormož, Base 20 in Kočevsko Horn, monument in Dražgoš, Franja Hospital, central monument in Maribor, Trubar, Gregorčič, and Prežihovina. A number of other ten objects in the restoration of cultural monuments could be listed as many as are included in this programming set under point 1. Or, say, greater investment in culture, public cultural infrastructure. Let me list some of them, such as the National Gallery, the collection of Ljubljana Opera, Modern Gallery, Slovenian Ethnographic Museum, Restoration Centre, renovation of the Old Hall of SNG Maribor, Puppet Theatre Maribor, Regional and Study Library Murska Sobota, Historical Archive Celje, Film Studio Viba film, renovation of Slovenian Philharmonics, construction of libraries in Velenj, Kranj and the Ravna and Museum of Slovenian Film Players in Divača. Of the 41 projects in public infrastructure, 33 were funded in this programme. Only 8 remain to extend the cultural euro law. So I would appeal to the Ministry and the National Assembly to support this project. Transport infrastructure is also a major issue. On the Committee responsible for this area, on the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, we discussed this very thoroughly and adopted a special decision, where we appealed to the Government to provide additional resources for state road infrastructure, because, apart from projects co-financed by European funds, there are no more projects for 2014 and 2015 funded directly from the State budget in the Development Programme Plan. Fortunately, however, European projects remain, so that some things that have already begun, such as the renewal on the fourth development axis between Želen and Soča Bridge, will proceed smoothly. I hope that Gorenje Vas and Škofja Loka Oblast will also have the opportunity to cancel the invitation to tender unless the State Audit Commission cancels the invitation to tender again, and it will go, as it were said, to an additional 25 million euros from the European funds. This would be a real disaster in this financial drought, so I have proposed to the Finance Committee that the Finance Committee and the Infrastructure Committee deal with the issue of public tendering, because something is wrong with those preparing these calls, in this particular case with the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, whether something is wrong with the State Audit Commission and its functioning or whether something is wrong with the legislation governing these calls. I propose that the two competent parent committees of the National Assembly deal with the issue of public calls, because one move would lose 25 million euros to rebuild the diocese that people have been expecting for almost half a century could indeed be a national disaster, and I call on all those responsible not to play with our money and to make a responsible decision. But I would have another question for the Secretary of State. Matthew the Vranic. In fact, at the end of last month, we witnessed the initiative of the President of the National Assembly, Comrade Janko Webra, to draw on funds for transport infrastructure and to rent favourable loans to the European Investment Bank so that we could bridge these investments, which will fall out of these funds in the coming years. These are probably significantly better terms for borrowing money than our country has owed so far. As far as I know, the President of the Government is supposed to be in favour of this idea and the Finance Minister is supposed to be in favour of this idea. On 30 October, we read to the STA that Minister Omerzel, who is also responsible for infrastructure projects, is inclined to rent credit to the European Investment Bank for infrastructure projects, but cannot predict when we could do it – I know that this cannot be done overnight – so I would ask the State Secretary of Mags. A crower is very specific: what are the possibilities for lending to the European Investment Bank for infrastructure projects in the field of rail and road infrastructure, which would continue to burden state budgets, under what conditions and under what time frame could this be discussed? In addition to the successful use of European funds, this could be the second potential source of funds, since the only one currently available to this country, the only investment potential source, is European funds. I hope that the Government will do its utmost to make the pumping work, so that, as we have heard before, the Secretary of State will have more than 200 million euros spent in 2014 than planned. So I would ask for this concrete answer regarding the European Investment Bank's assets. Finally, I would like to mention another area. In the 2013 rebalancing, we managed to retain funds for earthquake recovery in Posača after the July 2004 earthquake. I'm talking about the rebalancing, colleague Krivec, for the 2013 rebalancing, not for 2014. The 2014 budget rebalancing provided for a substantial drawdown of funds, and we maintained at least €4.5 million for the continuation of these projects, which is 18.18%, as envisaged by the original budget, but the radical deletion of these funds for the earthquake recovery is foreseen in 2014, from €5.5 million to €1.5 million, which amounts to 72% less than the original budget. I think that this is a disproportionate intervention in a budget item, if we have generally reduced this item from 15% to 20%, for an earthquake recovery that has been going on for 10 years, and in 2014, when the 10th anniversary of the earthquake in Posoča, we have reduced these funds by 72%. I think we should fix this thing, too. I'll think about it. I think that there is also an amendment in the procedure that increases these funds within the redeployment within the same ministry – they are not taking funds for some servicing of public debts, but within the Ministry itself. I think we could support the National Assembly by raising funds for earthquake recovery in 2014 and in 2015 at least within some reasonable framework. Let me say that, say, after the Easter earthquake in 1998, the reconstruction lasted for 11 years. Now we are looking forward not only to 11, but also to 12, 13, 14, or 15 years to remedy the effects of the 2004 earthquake. As we say, I will support this budget for 2014 as well as for 2015. I will also support the President of the Government. I think the Minister of Mag's main credit is for this move. Stephen, because we solved the problem I was talking about at the beginning. Because that was my condition for supporting these documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u85	Thank you, too. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor to prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u86	Your Honor! It was cheap support, I have to say. While colleague Bevk is Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee, I would expect the condition to be the adoption of the amendment that we discussed on the Committee, which allocated the infrastructure to an additional hundred million in 2014. Today, it has been repeatedly said that the budget somehow reflects the policy of the current government, the government of Alenka Bratušek. What does this policy tell us? Is there any optimism in this policy? Is trust giving us a boost? Can we be concerned? Are we safe? That is for sure – if I am paraphrasing the Prime Minister, her statement on taxes, then we are very safe, even too safe under this government. For the red thread of these budget documents this year is the lifting of tax burdens, including the excessive lifting of tax burdens on all segments, not only tax burdens, but also all other burdens on both the population and the economy. Does this 2014 budget change give any support to the economy and the population to make it easier to operate, so that new jobs can be opened? Here we have an invitation from the Chamber of Economics, where they wrote that there are currently 90,000 fewer jobs in the economy than at the end of 2008. Do we know what this number means? It's probably a huge problem. This 2014 budget change is either the way to solving this problem or it will further exacerbate it. If we look at the numbers and what this document says, then we must be clear to all of us, and I believe that the Prime Minister does not hide her eyes from this – that is why her responsibility is so much greater – that this budget change and the 2015 budget are an additional problem for this country. An additional problem with several aspects. Firstly, because no more serious reform is envisaged in the context of budget changes, for example in the public sector, where serious reform is needed and spending restrictions are taken seriously in such a way as to ensure that services are quality, optimal, that people receive what they expect from the public sphere and, on the other hand, that costs for the functioning of this public sphere begin to decrease. What is now in the amending budget is, excuse me, some cosmetic correction and it does not even cover all that should be covered. Do we see any serious health reform? We can't see her. Do we see any serious reform in the field of justice? We can't see her. You came here days ago with a law that said those who couldn't explain the origin of 70% of the property would be seized. We already have this in our legislation, but it's not being implemented. Those who have received something that is unjustifiable, which is linked to the suspicion of the service of certain crimes – there are mechanisms in the current legislation to seize it all. The last time you could hear individuals from the judicial sphere saying that they were doing this, but very rarely and very fearful. Finally, people would expect that at a time when this government has provided in this budget, in which you are reducing funds for a number of important projects, the support of two private banks amounting to more than EUR 500 million, at least to those gentlemen and ladies who are responsible for these jobs, the moment that this happened on September 6th, it would not have frozen all assets. What does this budget change tell us? The additional burden at the end of 2014, which will affect citizens, citizens and the economy, will be slightly less than €5 billion. 4.8 billion is expected by the government of Alenka Bratušek to be in debt in the coming year. Despite higher taxes, despite higher inflows, despite the additional real estate captures that people have been building themselves, an additional 4.8 billion debt will be required. Is it really just for education, for pensions, for those who can't find a job or something else? Or even for tycoon stories in these banks? Or also for the payment of compensation to so-called deleted persons? Or do those who produce nothing get paid for it? In this context, how does a subsidy go to a private company, a representative of a ministerial team for which there is nothing to be done, and on the other hand it would be disputed if that person did something about it? It is probably not exactly confidence in the executive branch of government, especially because all these things will ultimately have to be paid by people through higher taxes, and this message unfortunately gives us a change in the budget for 2014. This makes it very difficult to be optimistic, because we need to look at what will happen after this period, when, as a real prime minister, we can do it ourselves. Yeah, but what's the price, and who's gonna pay it? How much will it cost to rent these extra 5 billion? Or as much as the current interest rate is between 6% and 7% as that country owed during the current government of May this year, could this debt amount to significantly less, percentage or two than the available money within the European Union? Of course, certain conditions must be met for him. Any responsible government would face the truth, look in the mirror, come before the National Assembly and the public and admit defeat, say that it is not possible and that the only solution is not to burden itself with this additional indebtedness of future young generations, to obtain funds from cheaper sources and thus to facilitate debt relief, smaller obligations and some way at the end of the tunnel, that we will someday be able to recover all these things. Because our debt at the end of 2014 will obviously exceed EUR 25 billion, and you know that we are currently not creating even EUR 35 billion in this country, with this debt reaching 8 billion at the end of 2008 and that the interest at the time was EUR 300 million per year, and at the end of 2014 it will reach or even exceed EUR billion, and the interest rate is 6 to 7%. This, excuse me, according to the Prime Minister himself from a meeting, when we discussed whether Positive Slovenia will change its position on the introduction of fiscal rules into the constitution or not, no state will hold up. Those were her words at this meeting. He's deceiving the public. Why doesn't he tell the public these numbers are unrealistic? Moreover, it binds its confidant to all this complexity, and I think that this is a very bad journey to regulate public finances and to take all the measures that should be taken to really get this country out of the situation that it is in today. So that these budget changes cannot be supported, and I wonder those coalition Members who somehow know that this is the wrong way to insist on this path, not to face the truth, and that you simply do not make public your opinion, which you otherwise say in the back or when the reflectors in this Chamber are turned off.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u87	Thank you. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, get Mrs. Aleksandra Osterman ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u88	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the most important document for the country in 2014, and I am really surprised that only one minister is present from the government team. I'm even more surprised by the fact that the Prime Minister tied a confidential note to this document. Whether the Prime Minister has any support on her team or doesn't have it — given the empty bench, we couldn't say that. For this document prepared by the Government, I estimate that it is already basically prepared on wrong forecasts. It is ready to announce that the decline in economic growth in Slovenia will be 0.8%. The International Monetary Fund has announced a drop of 1.4%, which means almost twice the difference. It is even more worrying that today the EBRD has announced a downturn of 2.5%. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister how he views this announcement. I think the budget is already unrealistic on this basis. The budget is also unrealistic on the revenue and expenditure side. The budget for 2014 does not include a judgment on salary imbalances and 170 million payments. True, the Secretary of State said that this was a direct burden on the budget between €80 million and €100 million, but I would ask the Prime Minister, in spite of everything, how she views Virant's mathematics, which is vehemently offering legitimate late interest, and that this matter will stretch out for the next two years. Legal late interest is almost 9 percentage points at the moment, but we know that Slovenia is paying almost a billion interest already for 2014. This budget does not include compensation for the removals from which these compensations will be paid. However, we know that these compensations will start to be paid in 2014. The main charger of this budget is the real estate law. We have previously heard from the President of the Government that this real estate tax will not burden larger companies, so that about 3 euros will be known to the apartment or to the resident. That is why I am asking the President of the Government the question from which title and who will then pay EUR 205 million, which the budget envisages as an additional property tax. From where? If they do not pay large companies, if only 3 euros per capita or owner of the apartment, will it pay for rural areas and small, micro and medium-sized enterprises? I expect the President of the Government to answer that question. Very irresponsible and, I would say, on the one hand, even insultingly, I think the coalition is explaining that this budget is socially oriented. How can you say that the budget is socially oriented when this budget will burden the economy, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in 2014 with 550 million additional taxes? With 550 million additional taxes, the additional burden on the budget will burden the economy and the population, and you explain that this budget is socially oriented. It's not! It's not social-oriented, it's not development-oriented! I want to know why there are no privatisation revenues involved here. I estimate that privatisation should be the main generator of these matters, but you do not expect anything – either by privatisation you are not serious or you have any other accounts. Much of the additional revenue is foreseen in this draft budget for the drawing-up of European funds. Slovenia's European funding is extremely poor, and to date the government has not adopted any measures that could ensure that additional European funds are used. These are more speculations on paper. The same is true in the area of the grey economy – you have not taken any concrete action. In view of the increase in taxes adopted by the government of Alenka Bratušek, I believe that this government is encouraging the formerly grey economy rather than infecting it. Such burdens are not good, and I estimate that the path that the government of Alenka Bratušek has envisioned is not right. I am sure that Slovenia will not recover from the economic, financial crisis. Also problematic is item B of the balance sheet, which provides for the resolution of the banking system of EUR 1.2 billion. If we look at this, there is actually a budget deficit for 2014, I would say, solely due to the rehabilitation and recapitalisation of banks. However, it is important to ask who is responsible, and I think that the current President of the Government, who has stopped the bank's rehabilitation for at least 8 months, has a great responsibility for this. Positive Slovenia has signed referendums on the law on the so-called bad bank. This stopped the matter for about 4 months, and then the prime minister for 2 to 3 months explained how she would adopt a new law, how the banks would solve it in a different way. After three months, however, she realized that the only option was to continue with the law adopted or proposed by the government of Janez Janša. I think there is a lot of uncertainty in this budget. Uncertainty is the real estate law itself. I do not rule out the possibility that this law will rumble before the Constitutional Court, nor do I rule out the risk that the Constitutional Court will decide that this law is unconstitutional. What's the government's scenario in this case? What is the government's scenario in case more than €1.2 billion are needed to rehabilitate the banking system? Fitch, a recognized credit card company, expressed doubts about this number on Friday. It speculates on 4.6 billion euros. On Friday, the Chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board said that banks need 5 billion. I want to know what measures are ready where scenario B is, where scenario C is, because the more we talk about when we look at this budget, the more we see that this budget is unrealistic. It's already been made on the wrong projections. The revenue and expenditure side numbers are wrong. In the end, I would only ask a question – I think that the President of the Government will be able to answer – from where the real estate tax of 205 million euros of income will come if he says that big companies will pay the same and that it will be 3 euros more per capita or owner. I am interested in a comment on the EBRD forecast – the fall of GDP in Slovenia for 2014 by 2.5 percentage points. It was made at 0.8%. And, of course, the question for the President of the Government, when does he expect the 2014 budget to rebalance, will it be January 15th or will it be February 1st. I cannot support this budget because it is unrealistic. We can't even say whether the budget is bad or good, because it's unrealistic already basically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u89	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Kavticnik? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Maybe. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u91	No, look, just to explain, there won't be any problem with replicas. You don't have to mention anyone. If the discussion was misunderstood, it has the opportunity to replicate, and Mr. Kavtičnik I suppose it is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u92	I have been talking about the social transfers that this budget is supposed to cover and about ensuring social security. That's exactly why I thought maybe he didn't understand me. We just tied the adoption of the real estate law to the preservation of social transfers. Maintaining social transfers, scholarships are ensuring the preservation of the social state. However, in terms of developmental orientation, we talked about providing resources for education, and if the contribution to education, science and development is not a development component, then I do not know what should be. I also believe that the funds foreseen in the economy growth budget can all be treated as development funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u93	Thank you. He's got magic in his hands. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u94	Dear President of the National Assembly, I ask you to give the replica as it is in the Rules of Procedure. I think Mr. Kavtičnik here has made a debate. He didn't deny me or deny me anything. With regard to social policy and scholarships and all that, it should be pointed out that this government has reduced subsidies and that the monthly student and student tickets will increase by €5 per month from this title, on an annual basis for a family with two children amounting to €100 of additional burden. So that we don't go explaining other things now. The President, please, if you respect the Rules of Procedure and give a replication of what is envisaged by the Rules of Procedure or then point out that the Rules of Procedure have been misused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u95	Thank you. With regard to Mr Kavticnik, he made it very clear at which point he felt that he was not properly understood, and this is the basis for him being able to replicate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You don't necessarily have to mention someone who wants to replicate it to you. It's just one of the conditions. Even the content of the debate and the possible misinterpretation of the debater have the advantage of having the opportunity to correct the arguments. So this replica was perfectly in line with the rules of procedure. We are continuing the debate, which is Mrs Aleksandra Osterman's word and Mr Branko Ficko's preparation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. All in attendance, all in attendance! Unlike my two predecessors, I will be a little more optimistic myself, and I will support the 2014 and 2015 budget changes, following the objectives of fiscal consolidation. The amendment focuses on the country's sustainable financial stability with cuts both on the expenditure side and on measures to promote economic growth and the preservation of the social state. I am therefore convinced that the 2014 and 2015 budget changes are taking them in the right direction. By amending the budget, we are following the target of reaching a budget deficit of 3% for 2014 and 2.5% for 2015. The budget provides funds for social transfers, pensions, health care as well as for investments, and in this context also attempts to boost economic growth as much as possible. Slovenia, as an EU member, must also pursue a long-term public financial policy and adopt measures to reduce the structural deficit due to the requirements of enhanced economic governance and the euro area in amending the 2014 and 2015 budget. We must be aware that the commitments we have made to Europe must also be fulfilled. The times when we could only promise and do a little less have finally passed. In no way can we claim that the measures taken are solely on the revenue side. There's a lot of work done on the expenditure side, too. Most of the results will be visible after a certain period of time. It is also clear that all the measures that this government has taken and which it intends to take are achieved in agreement with the social partners, since social dumping is not a trademark of Positive Slovenia and not of this government. It is this government that has launched an effective and necessary fight against the grey economy supported by the European Commission. The grey economy is around 28% of GDP in Slovenia and about 10 million euros a year. As from 1 July 2013, special tax warehouses have been in force which have programmes to prevent the erasure of accounts. Since 1 July, controls have been carried out with the help of mobile units consisting of Dursa and Cursa staff and if the expected results are not the same as expected, they will be carried out in real tax registers following the example of Croatia. I can also agree that today's changes are not popular, but the times we live in are not the best. The change in the budget reflects the real picture of Slovenia. Why we are here, we can all agree that it is not the result of this government, but that it is the result of many years and many times the wrong decisions, which are globally, in poor conditions, still being multiplied in our environment. It would be the happiest to discuss high economic growth in 2014, infrastructure projects, such as the 3rd development axis, which would encourage the economy from Koroška to the White Country, and 3a. Development axes. It is the so-called road of death of Kočevje-Ljubljana, where we could talk about the development of the economy even in those parts of Slovenia, where the economy is at the lowest possible point of development and where we have the highest level of unemployment. I come alone from Kočev, which has the highest unemployment rate and where the economy is at the lowest possible point of development. People there, as well as elsewhere in Slovenia, see no prospects anymore. As soon as the term of office of the Member State came to an end, I began to stand up for the construction of a nomadic railway that is only built to the Ribnica, and to build up to Kočev it requires modernisation of the tracks and regulation of signalling worth around €35 million. Thus, Kočevsko, which is structurally completely lagging behind, would gain a safer, cheaper and faster infrastructure connection. In this place, let me say that I am happy and proud of the government of Alenka Bratušek, who has listened to my initiatives and has advocated the modernisation of the railway by supplementing the 2015 budget and has dedicated 8 million euros to it. The sad fact is that on 21 September 2013 the 120th anniversary of the Ljubljana–Kočev railway was, unfortunately, not in Kočev, but in Ribnica. I am also saddened by the fact that at the opening 120 years ago this route was more structured than it is today — a century or more later. There was a lot to hear today about the Real Estate Tax Act. Let me say it's one of the oldest taxes in human history. The Real Estate Tax Act will bring together 4 taxes already applied, namely compensation for the use of building land, property tax, road charges and property taxes, which were introduced in 2012. At this point, let me say that I will support the amending budget for 2014 and 2015, as amending the budget ensures sustainable financial stability while preserving the social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u97	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor to prepare Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u98	Good evening to you all, especially to the Minister and Secretary of State and to the other secretaries who insist with us! I myself am not satisfied with the budget, especially on the revenue side, because I would also like normal revenues, market revenues, especially from the economy, not taxes. The question is whether the Government even had a second option in preparing the budget. She did not have it, especially if she wanted to keep the deficit on one billion budgetary differences and keep the social state. This has also resulted in a kind of crisis budget. The budget shows that before the economic recovery, we now have to pay for all the depths that were created 10 years ago, including by enormous lending in 2007 and 2008, which did not produce results, with tycoon credits and by investing in a speculative real estate balloon. If a real estate tax had been accepted at the time, that would have been less. At that time, the current critics carried out only evaluation — questionable — you spent money, you did not accept real estate tax, obviously with other interests. During that period, the construction baron Hilda, a manager educated in Christian values, also grew dramatically as regards the real - estate balloon. Her results don't need to be warmed up. Taxes wouldn't be necessary if the money was returned, let's say that billion from the Maribor archdiocese of Bell One, Bell Two. It is also true that the resolution of the banking system, as started in other European countries, was not initiated at the end of 2008 and in particular in 2009. We're paying for all these mistakes now, and that's a fact. This does not mean that there is no provision on the expenditure side, in the state administration, primarily related to bureaucracy, rationalisation in health care, education. There has been enough time for these reforms in the past, but things have not been settled. The budget is a projection, a framework. In itself, it saves nothing, especially long-term economic growth. It will also not produce results, revenues if there is no direction towards the economy in a positive direction, with the rehabilitation of the banking system and thus with the possibility of servicing the indebted economy, with the systemic extension of the economy, of the one without own capital, and with the possibility of having creditors in active ownership, with rational use of European funds for real projects, with the speed to prepare projects, with accelerated investment in infrastructure, with measures in the field of grey economy, including with better results in the agricultural economy. This economic work is not entirely dependent on Minister Stepišnik. When I listen to the criticisms of the budget, I can't be surprised at their misappropriation. Over the last 8 years, they've been around, 70% of the government, passing laws, regulations, watching over the banking system. Their results are unfortunately visible today. When I listened to the new paradigm of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats: less taxes. I agree, but who's going to give money to the budget? God or bells? I don't know. Or the biggest advocates of a petition about a farmer’s tax, a fellow member of the SLS — should the tax be nothing to destroy the countryside and so on? The agricultural economy is expected to contribute approximately EUR 12 million following this new proposal. This amount must always be compared with the annual contribution in agriculture, which on average amounts to EUR 400 million of European funds, plus Slovenia's participation of about 70 million. These funds increase to €482 million in 2014 and €612 million in 2015. That 12 million is about 2% of that. With this, I do not want to say that the matter needs to be burdened, but that agriculture gets its money, and the results resulting from this are essential. SLS representatives could also talk about other depths, about other money, about forest management, defending individuals or concession recipients from state forests, where we have a hole opposite the country about €20-25 million or, say, on the basis of the collection of concessions and water refunds into the so-called water fund, where money is not for purposes under water law, but it is about €32 million for energy on Sava, for environmental regulation and so on. Colleagues from the SDS are winners because they are already masters in criticising the budget. I will not say that because of the bad conscience and mistakes made in the period 2004-2008 – that is why we pay the so-called black tax. But I must admit that they have the positive effect that the name Janez Janša is no longer used, but that the name Alenka Bratušek appears from day to day, and that is why I thank them. The budget itself does not solve our problems. By complementing other measures in the field of economy, public administration, public procurement, bureaucratic procedures, this can be complemented, all in the development and economic growth objectives, and it can give us some direction. I'll support the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u99	Thank you, too. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor to prepare Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I will support the 2014 amending budget. The adoption of the 2014 budget was already carried out by the adoption of the budget last year, during the previous government, but I have no problem with this alone. It is the budget and it is the continuity of work, and certainly every government sees its own vision of how to move the matter forward. The fact is that the President of the Government, together with the ministerial team, has identified how to carry out matters, in particular in the direction of sustainability and the reality of the budget. The 2014 amending budget follows the target of reaching a budget deficit of around 3% of the gross social product for 2014, which is a real basis for reducing it to 2.5% in 2015. Due to extreme uncertainty, the 2014 budget change and the 2015 budget are certainly much more stable and slightly less developmental, but this does not mean that this budget would not be realistic. The budget is assessed correctly, is realistic and feasible. I want to rely on some positive points, despite the fact that it has been heard many times today that everything in this budget would not be right. There was also quite a bit of self-criticism about the budget when colleagues prepared it themselves, but in all this I see positive starting points. We are preserving the social state — what does that mean? That pensioners continue to have pensions as high as ever, unemployed social assistance, large families, the socially weak people, the disabled, adequate assistance and support. We maintain public education, public health, and we also know how to ensure that those who need help have social protection. This government has also intervened in the public sector's salaries through social dialogue. However, we do not agree with the reduction in the number of civil servants by about 40,000, as one of the solutions proposed by one of the opposition parties has been proposed. This would allow nurses, soldiers, police officers, as well as caregivers in nursing homes to consider whether this public sector, the state sector, is the one that would be continuously cut. I'm sure no one thought this way, but it sounded that way. With this, we all find that the public sector is still in need. In the 2014 budget, investments are increasing by 80% – €300,000 is earmarked for investments. The President of the Government has reiterated this today. Large investments in infrastructure are the priorities of this government, for which Members and Members from the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia take part, especially those living in dislocated areas, in areas on the outskirts of Slovenia, and we feel that we are neglected. The government is thinking about these big projects, and not only is it thinking, but it continues the continuity of the work of several governments, which these large infrastructure projects had during their strategic projects, whether it is the 3rd development axis in the Kočevsko region or it is the 3rd axis from Koroška to the White Country or the 4th axis in the Idrija area and so on. It is correct to try to accelerate all administrative procedures in such projects to make land purchases for those parts where State spatial plans have been adopted. Also in the time of the previous government one of these was adopted. But surely the second track of the Divača-Koper railway, where there has been a lot of talk in recent weeks about price revaluation of the estimated value of the investment – we know that this is a project to be implemented. The strategic position of Luke Koper as an important European port, the logistics centre is one that must also guide us in relation to the start-up of the economy, in relation to the importance of maintaining the status of Luke Koper and in relation to other strategic partners – in these days, Friday and Saturday at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, we have repeatedly talked about Germany. It was also presented by Umar that we are already moving towards economic growth in the export sector. It is predicted that the euro area countries already have a trend of 1% economic growth. I'm sure things will go up. It is our interest to retain all these comparative advantages that we have and the geostrategic advantages of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in order to keep our economy, the start-up of the economy, entrepreneurship, crafts, tourism, which is also intended for funds, agriculture and regional development, in a direction that will also ensure the desire of companies to continue to develop, to allocate resources for research and development, and in particular to turn trends towards economic growth. Today, municipalities are those that are generators of regional development, including investments, large investments, infrastructure investments, cohesion, and this is often feasible and done mainly through the use of European funds. If we look at the change in the 2014 budget, we find that we will get about €210 million from the European Union, and we will pay the European Union budget 34 million less than the 2014 budget adopted last year. We have the objective of budget sustainability, of preserving the social state. We want to make the most of Europe's resources, invest in research and development. This government has responsibilities and important tasks that have unfortunately not been carried out during the previous governments: ensuring public financial stability, rehabilitation of the banking system. We are all very interested in what bank stress tests will show. Fiscal consolidation is also one of the important tasks, but when we talk about fiscal consolidation or, according to home, taxes, which is more understandable to people, we have had an opportunity to hear on the Committee on Finance how many taxes were introduced even during the previous government. According to Umar, the measures will lead to renewed economic growth, which is realistic and possible in 2015. Mr Vasle classified the recovery of the banking system and the movement of public finances as negative risks and developments in the international environment as positive risks. Germany, as an important business partner of the Republic of Slovenia, is now in the trend of re-economic growth. Although they already have a real estate order, they already have a real estate tax, and people in Germany are paying real estate taxes, they are also retiring older, but economic growth is detected, and this is also a positive note for the Republic of Slovenia and our economy, which is very much linked to the members of the European Union. To conclude, as the Prime Minister of the Government has presented today, a policy that divides people should finally withdraw from the integration policy. This is what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want. We look to Slovenia for solidarity citizens and citizens, for a fair country and for a just society. I will support the proposal for amending the 2014 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, to the Minister and to both Secretary of State! Any debate on the budget may be political, may be professional, may be substantive or may be a combination of each other. In particular, when it comes to the so-called budget change, when it comes not to the creation of a new budget, but to the correction of what has already been adopted and needs to be rectified because it has been shown that some things do not hold up or that certain things need to be changed in terms of gabarites and the foundations. To ensure that there is no mistake, I do not see that we are correcting this budget, prepared by the previous government and adopted by Parliament or the then coalition about a year ago. There are many things in it that are good, but some simply do not. Above all, I don't want to give in to some euphoria of the prediction of 'apocalypse now', which is going to happen to a hypo and is already here before us. I don't think so. When we speak this political language, when the opposition says that everything sucks, and the coalition, that everything is good, not one and not the other, we are not telling the truth. Perhaps the truth is somewhere in between, but we must all be aware that a simple document, which is the most important document of every government in the year, needs to be prepared. This is ready and, as we have already heard, I will not repeat these matters, because I am already a little tired of the extremely recurring claims that this budget is unrealistic and so on. The fact is, if we say so, then it is also an unrealistic basis or the original budget that has been prepared can also be unrealistic. That was well said earlier by the Secretary of State when she let us all know that the tax revenues in the original budget were 100 million higher than in the current budget correction, with the difference that no tax revenue tools were readily accepted in the original budget. I don't think there was anything nice about this government, either, that she had to cut it when she found out, by some means, that it was about how much she was standing. There have been many previous days of speeches on corporate income tax. This is a typical example of how we know how to wrap things in gold or silver steel, like who it suits. In the original budget, this tax was foreseen for a 1% lower rate of profit tax planned at 488 million. After the current correction, that is 421 million. Nevertheless, we argue that the matter is unrealistic, that it does not stand, that it will never be achieved, and even though the Secretary of State thinks that she has told us at least ten times why it is so, we claim that we are right that this tax will not be achieved and so on. However, no one claims that it will be achieved, but we certainly cannot say that it is not true that when the rate of a certain tax falls from 23% to 17%, the withdrawals collected at a higher rate should be refunded. This is purely elementary school – not even mathematics, it is mere arithmetic. We claim something that every student in primary school already knows and understands. Politically, however, this does not suit us and we will therefore say that the budget is unrealistic, that it will not be achieved. Only this tax is so much because you're saying that new taxes are collected so much and so much. In the case of a new tax, it is true that this government raised value added tax, with the difference that there was no secret that the largest government party in its programme had this tax predicted. Otherwise, not at an increase of 2%, but at a level of 1%. When the inventory of the takeover was made, I will say, the budget items of the previous government, it has been found that a little more must be raised, and here I just have to fix that this is not what Mr Tonin said before, that no one in Europe has raised this tax. That's not true. For example, only Italy raised it three times. Last picked it up one month ago from 21% to 22%. On the other hand, it is true that the economy has no effect on the rise of this tax, especially since we have a large export economy, as it has an impact on final consumption, and I have only to say that most Slovenian traders have at least so far charged this tax with the burden of their revenues or their income and have not significantly increased prices. There was no significant price increase here. On the other hand, the export economy, as it is said, even benefits from having higher tax rates, which is then also more refunded or charged by the entry tax. These things aren't as terrible as they're trying to show up. The second tax that this government has drawn up is this famous property tax. I don't think I have much to talk about today. I think some people here know exactly what the problem is. The problem is simple because the basis for collecting this new tax has expanded, because we had a number of sectors or, in other words, a number of local communities that did not even introduce compensation for the use of the building land, had it or were so small that it was negligible. What does that mean? It means that the responsible people for local self-government in these municipalities were informed by the mayors of municipal councils, with the great suffocating of certain political structures, by political parties, that there is no point in introducing compensation for the use of building land, because they will eventually be compensated from the state budget. Why would the mayor resent his people, his constituents, if he could expect the country to miss the difference? When we talk about fairness, we must say that it was not fair that some of us who had a relatively high rate of tax or compensation for building land paid not only our own compensation, but that we indirectly paid through the State budget also financial compensation to those local communities which did not introduce compensation for the use of the building land or introduced it less than it could. I know I'm going to get the opposite answer, that's what the investors were attracted to. Now it's the other way around. Those municipalities where they will now pay less tax than previously paid for building land will be positively competitive and will say: Come to us because our tax is lower. In this “catch” is all this misunderstanding and this big whirlwind, although the specimen has previously told you that where the refund was introduced, the difference will now be only 3 euros on average for one average apartment. I'm talking again, it's statistics so there won't be anything wrong. Here is the difference in the amount of 200 million, which will be accumulated in the budget. I must say, I admit, I'm not thrilled with this solution. This is an emergency solution to support public finances, because you know that there was no agreement or consensus in the coalition to introduce a so-called crisis tax that would primarily affect the so-called active population and families that are active, even in the most important, the best lives with young children and both parents are employed. The other thing is how some people look at these things, but I would like to say that I personally think that this tax should be about the same as the ZUJF for a certain period of time, and then I should actually define it as the custom in Europe, that it is primarily a local community tax. However, as it is said, this budget wants to be exactly what you claim in the opposition is not. He wants to be more realistic and wants to have some resources from which this budget will be filled. The specificity of the Slovenian crisis is that this is more, although many will not agree with me, the private sector crisis than just the budget. Why do I say that? I argue because, in 2004-2008, EUR 25 billion of fresh money was thrown into the economy, especially in the construction sector and also in some other sectors. In particular, most problematicly, through banks, this money was spent on so-called ownership consolidation, which is the Slovenian version of 'acceptance' of Balkan acceptance. It was not intended for productive purposes, and that is why this big problem is also because we have gone into this crisis with an outdated productive base, and whoever rules would have these problems. These are the structural problems of the Slovenian economy. With rare exceptions, we have an outdated productive base with little added value, and as a result this situation has caused banks to have a hole like this today. This was possible only in the wake of politics, banking and the economy. If this were not for a normal functioning economy, this phenomenon would probably not have occurred or would have occurred to a small extent. As a result, in addition to the rehabilitation of the banking system, the economy, at least some of the most important sectors or enterprises, must be allocated. Without a systematic extension of the economy, this spiral will only continue. We will achieve nothing if we have the most recapitalised banks in Europe and the most indebted economy in Europe. We will have to resolve this, and the budget may not give an answer, but it gives answers to what still has to happen. This is actually a transfer of the management of state-owned enterprises under one cap and a professionalisation of the management of these companies. Unlike those who believe that pure privatisation alone solves this problem, I believe that the very form of ownership is not so important, but is more important than professionalism, apoliticalism and, above all, honesty. In Slovenia, we should all start thinking out loud that it is a virtue not to steal. This should be the first max that we should actually, regardless of the political color, the obvious one and the other — must not be stolen. It can't be a virtue to praise someone, to find out that he's a maher, that he's a master, and we honor that. This simply must no longer be a virtue in Slovenia. That is why everyone must also do their own homework: the economy, the Chamber of Commerce, the judiciary, and, above all, we are here in Parliament today, politics. Fair policy. I think this should be the starting point of this, not that we're seeing each other, who did something wrong, who thought something when he did it, why he did it, but, above all, that we find a way out of this maze together. Here it seems to me that we should also give a very clear message to our citizens, to our people who expect more from us not only to be accused of each other, and not only to say who took something away at some point, whose was a typo, who knew who was with whom, who was talking to whom, who reached out to whom, but, above all, to change, and we sincerely change our behavior and our behavior. The second thing to follow is the so-called reforms that have already been spoken about today. Personally, I think it is very important or even one of the most important health reforms. Sooner or later, there will be a correction. I apologize to the former Minister of Pension Reform because I think that this will soon have to undergo some changes. Then there are labour market reforms and more. As we come to this, the question that is full of strangers, but more than the strangers to me in our country and in these processes that we are leading with us, is that every social group, as soon as it feels threatened or affected by reforms, immediately puts on its last legs as a cat with claws forward and we do not. That's what other people do. You can only see us. There's nothing we can do about it. Even if we have such a strong rejection or aversion against all changes everywhere, we will agree to maintain the current situation, which is certainly not good and will not be good. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a little more optimism, a little more will and energy in real change and a little less or less of each other's accusations. I do not think that things in Slovenia are so far away from being resolved with good and great political will and readiness and cooperation. I will support the 2014 budget, or better said budget correction, whatever it is, and I also intend to support the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u103	Thank you. This has been given to all those who have been reported in this round for discussion. We are discussing the general part of the draft amending budget. The word is wanted first by the representative of the Government of Mag. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u104	Thank you very much. In this round of discussions, I have asked one specific question and I would like to answer it – regarding the use of funds for infrastructure projects at the European Investment Bank. Slovenia already has an open credit line or an agreed loan agreement with the European Investment Bank of EUR 500 million, and the funds from this loan can be used to pay for Slovenian participation in those infrastructure projects that are otherwise financed by European funds. It may also be possible to agree on aid or credit to the EIB for other infrastructure projects, but the European Investment Bank does not co-finance small projects. For this reason, any project wishing to compete for these purposes must be at least EUR 25 million, and details or individual elements of the credit agreement will then be agreed on, depending on what the project is, what the timeframes for drawing these credits are. They can go there for up to 20 years. This makes it difficult to say anything more concrete about this. In other discussions, a number of specific questions or arguments were raised and I would like to answer some or at least serve with some data, although individual questions were addressed to the President of the Government. I believe that she will be able to supplement or upgrade the answers from her perspective. First, it is clear that the draft budget is based on incorrect macroeconomic forecasts. This budget is based on autumn macroeconomic forecasts prepared by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, as it does every year. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development is the institution in the Republic of Slovenia that prepares macro-economic baselines on the basis of which budget projections are then prepared each year. If other institutions, either Slovenian or foreign, prepare a slightly different assessment within a slightly later or approximately the same period and their forecasts of macroeconomic circumstances in Slovenia, it has never been claimed that the Office’s forecasts are wrong. There are one and the other and the third predictions, and to a certain extent they differ when we look back at what was actually realized. The EBRD, the European Commission, the IMF, the Bank of Slovenia and also the forecasts of Umar have never been made 100%. Derogations are within the limits of what is normal or normal in the profession involved in predicting economic flows or frameworks. The question was raised why the budget on the expenditure side did not include the amount of the elimination of wage imbalances as adopted or became the legal judgment of the Administrative Court requiring the payment of this difference in salary for the period from October 2010 to May 2012 and why the budget did not provide for the payment of compensation for the year 2014. The Act on Reimbursement to Deleted in the National Assembly has not yet been adopted. What will be the amount of the compensation, she is still unknown. Administrative or judicial proceedings on the basis of which compensation will be awarded will be initiated in the course of the coming year and, in view of all the unknowns that exist in relation to the amount of these compensations, the Government has assessed that it will provide funds in 2014 under the envisaged global expenditure on instruments available under the law on the implementation of budgets or the Law on public finances – through internal transfers and rationalisations. The Court’s judgment, which allowed or granted employees in the public sector the right to receive payment of unpaid wage differentials in relation to the elimination of wage imbalances, was adopted just before the draft budget was forwarded to the National Assembly, and in the interim period from 1 October to today, discussions with trade unions have been held with regard to how this payment will be implemented. As far as this is concerned, the Government has decided that the payment will not be made on the basis of individual executions, but will be organised on the basis of the legal arrangements for payment in two instalments. The first meal is due no later than February 2014 and the second meal no later than January 2015. The means of payment will have to be provided by any budgetary user or any employer in which the public servant has been employed during the period to which the payment relates. As already mentioned today, this amounts to a total of between €80 million and €100 million for the state budget. EUR 40 to 50 million per year will be provided by the measures made available to us by the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, but we do not foresee that, due to the payment of the third quarter or this difference, we should increase the global expenditure figure proposed by this budget. Privatisation revenue. Here it would be possible to plan in different ways. One way is that we do not explicitly plan these revenues, but procedures from the sale of state property are in progress and are in different stages. Revenue will flow into the state budget depending on when and how the sales process will be completed. The introduction of any number between the B balance sheet revenues under this heading could put pressure on the rapid completion of the sales procedures and thus the price at which individual state assets can be sold, so the Government has decided not to register these revenues between the planned B-balance sheet revenues, but to monitor how the sales processes will be implemented. The fact is that sales procedures run smoothly or at a pace that the National Assembly did not last stop when it confirmed the list of 15 companies that went for sale. Once the revenue under this heading is realised and can be spent for the purposes provided for by the Public Finance Act or the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, debt may be reduced in the future. The funds provided in the Bank Recovery Balance – any change in the figures given what we have already foreseen in this year's budget balance – would be speculation at this time. Several figures have already been mentioned in the debates as to what might be the so-called banking moon, which of these figures should be taken into account in the preparation of the draft budget. In our view, it is more appropriate not to include these speculations in the budget documents, but to wait patiently for the stress tests to be completed, to complete the assessment of the value of the so-called bad claims, and then to act. The proposals for solutions are ready, but they need to be waited until we know exactly what this gap is, and then without thinking about whether it is 4 billion, 5 billion, 3 billion or 1.2 billion, the situation with concrete measures to resolve or present a proposal for a solution. A grey economy and an obvious lack of concrete action. Specific measures are taking place in different areas. Surely the most visible and concrete measure is the closure of individual premises, increased field control. The first results are visible and will be analysed and presented by the end of this month. These measures, which we see and can also monitor in the media, are only one of the segments of the fight against the grey economy. This one's the most visible to the eyes. The work consists of a number of other measures carried out by the tax and customs administration, but they are not hung on a large bell, because a number of documents are to be carefully examined, and a number of information is to be obtained, whether it is a so-called tax gap, or whether it is a determination of how much funds a person has transferred from the Slovenian premises to the accounts of the so-called tax havens, without being paid for. Procedures are therefore being carried out to determine the actual amount of this part of the undeclared income and additional taxes are also levied on these revenues. Finally, this framework also includes measures to accelerate enforcement procedures in tax procedures, as we know that the rate of enforcement also increases the likelihood that tax debts will actually be paid. It is one of those areas which I have already mentioned in my previous intervention that do not require intervention or debate in the National Assembly, but require action on the ground. There are many of these measures. I have focused on those for whom the tax or customs authorities are responsible. It could continue with the measures carried out by other inspection services and also give first results. I was hoping that I would be able to avoid discussing the real estate tax until we reached this point in the agenda, but obviously this will not be possible. Even today, 192 million euros are being collected for the use of building land. However, this tax does not cover certain properties due to the systemic nature of the compensation for the use of building land, which relates only to part of the immovable property, but not to all properties. Furthermore, not all buildings and all land are covered because the records on which municipalities charge compensation for the use of building land are incomplete. By establishing a real estate register covering all real estates, the property foundation, which will become subject to taxation by the Real Estate Tax Act, is increasing. This is part of this additional revenue that we are planning, not only to increase the rate times two, but also to extend the base from which the tax is charged. The second segment, which we can argue will result in an increase in revenue, is the way to determine the tax base. The tax base of the congregations today was very different. They did not always take into account the market or general market value of real estate. Now the basis for everything will be determined in the same way. There is also a certain increase in rates according to the average rates we know in today's system, but not in all areas of double taxation. The situation is very different, depending on which properties we compare with each other and by which municipalities, because the differences in burdens are so high at the moment. The fact is that in some environments more taxes will be paid than they have been so far because the burdens have been very low or absent. In other environments or other parts of the property, there will be a relief because the current burdens were very high. So much at this point only generally about the property tax. Maybe just that warning. We have heard a lot of criticism in the previous discussions on real estate tax on the basis of the determination of the general value of real estate. This is about two circumstances that need to be separated from each other. One is the appropriateness of evaluation models for which the Government and the Geodetic Authority are responsible. The second is whether the census provided relevant data on the basis of which mass valuation models were used. This information is the responsibility of the owners and not, as mentioned in one of the discussions, of the non-professional evaluators. The owners are those who need to ensure that the real estate register provides accurate and complete data on each property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u105	Thank you very much. As there was still a desire to discuss the general work, I am opening the application for a debate. Four panellists have been reported. The first is Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The composition of the budget and the rebalancing is part of the art. It is an art that occurs in a situation like that of a country. All I can say to the planners is their gratitude and congratulations that they have brought this document to such an extent that it expresses sustainability for 2014 and 2015, and in these difficult conditions it also expresses some satisfaction in reducing this deficit to 3% and 2.5%. In addition to all of this and the whole situation, we can confirm that it preserves the social fabric of the Slovenian state. There have been a lot of speeches today, a lot of comments, a lot of attacks that have been heard by the opposition, and a lot of criticism on this budget, but we cannot and must not fail to find together that some of the important parameters of our country, our economy and our economic system are improving. This improvement in itself already has reason for optimism to move forward. If you had a vivid assessment of our country more than six months ago, when it was run by another political option or other government, then you could have compared it to the Concordia that possessed it. After that, the entire crew jumped off the ship with the captain. Now he's sitting on the coast, squeezing to those who want to put Concordio back in his place and float it forward. In the course of this discussion of the budget, I am completely out of line with the integration of all wheelchairs into the bicycles of those who plan in good faith to plan for our country to have a future and in the future to emerge from those waters in which it is located. I have been present many times when the budget was being considered, and I have also pressed many times on the adoption or non-acceptance of the budget. Every budget and every balance has given me the hope of confirming a document that will be important and will bring a future for our country. However, during this period, I was disappointed by any such document. These documents consisted of different governments and other governments. The document currently on the table for 2014 and 2015 consisted of an absolutely different government, another government, and so far I have no reason not to trust it. So far, she's convinced me that it's worth trusting her. At least what she has done in these good six months is commendable and gives hope for the future and for our future. The budget could be better. Today no one has explicitly commended him, but this is a real opportunity that a government can put on the plan and on the day and to debate and confirm. These are our real options. It would be good not to impose taxes to share money for what needs to be done, and what is not necessary, but the real estate tax is not the most cruel. The biggest tax that we pay and which we also put together in this balance sheet and budget is the tax of our past — what the previous governments have done, what has been hidden or drained and penetrated throughout the banking system. The tax we pay for all those skeletons that fell from the closets when the government of Alenka Bratušek came. Each such skeleton has its own name, and each skeleton is worth a few million. Each of these skeletons is also known for ownership, even for owners. However, I am sure that today we are right to discuss this more optimisticly, although we cannot help but overlook that these skeletons are a great burden, which is hampering even more dynamic and rational budgeting and rebalancing. Maybe there's one thing that bothers me. We are concluding the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013. We had the European Union's money at our disposal. This money has been poorly pumped and poorly pumped, but even the government has not been able to perform any miracles and draw even more than it is, even though trends are showing here in a positive light. What's done is done. The country has failed to implement this money into areas where it would be paid back and returned with some added value, but it is an opportunity – from 2014 onwards a new financial perspective begins. I am confident that the Government will, with such planning and also with a very careful monitoring of all these things, opportunities and opportunities, do everything possible to draw as much money as possible during this period, direct it to those areas that will give back either in the form of jobs or in any other ratings that our country needs. Some of the debates were at the edge of the cultural level, some of the debates were based on the failures of previous governments, such as the debate by the public party that economic growth is not good, that it is not good. Of course it's not okay! However, in the time of Minister Žerjev, we have often encouraged widespread debates on what is happening in the economic field in our Party, Positive Slovenia. At that time, the minister spoke of 200 measures for the economy, and unfortunately none of which had been taken. Today, however, the same party from which the Minister of Economy came can give so much advice, so many recipes, so many instructions for our minister that it is indescribable. I don't know if he really had such an unhappy hand or if there were 200 of these measures just on paper - and we know that paper can handle everything. I am moving away from all these debates, and we must also find that the opposition has some good stuff, has some good proposal that will surely come across obedience or approval, and I am sure that planners will make use of it and use it. All well on the way to further consideration of both documents for 2014 and 2015. Of course I'll confirm them. This does not need to be highlighted because it is my government, because it is our government, because in this situation it has found the best solutions that have been found at all, and I am sure that in the future this document will produce some results, not like the ones that have left some gaps that have left some consequences for which we and our researchers will pay. So I hope that this document will also achieve, in such a light, some consensus that will be necessary for the implementation to come forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u108	Thank you for your patience and thank you for your word. Through the public sector, through public spending, we are doing to a large extent what is written in the constitution: “Slovenia is a legal and social state.” At the same time, however, it is important to ask what it means to be a social state, what it means to offer citizens social security. Is this the safety net that catches us when we trip when we get sick, when we lose our jobs, when we get hit by floods or earthquakes? Then it's only right that this security network exists. However, we must be careful not to go to another social or better-called socialist country where there is no safety net, but a cover that ensures that we all stay in the same boiler, where citizens are not stimulated to do well, because those who look over the edge of the boiler get them on the head and the others pull them back down where the value is the same, although hungry, naked and bare, where the successful are pushed back, especially by the high taxation of work. Let's be realistic. This is a transitional budget. The transition to what, however, is a question that I don't know the answer to. Maybe just until the stress of bank tests, maybe until a new debt early next year, maybe by the next assessment of the European Commission. There is nothing radical in this budget that can be marked differently than a transitional budget. Revenue and expenditure remain more or less at the same level. A lot of people would like to see in this budget a lot more, if not an artificial island, at least a carnival. That's not in there, and that's right. The Keynesian idea that the country can use its spending to drive the recession, as well as the tutoring of the overriding winter, is well heard. If it were that simple, then there would be no recessions in the world. At first signs, the country would open its tentacles, and the recession would be solved, but that's not the case. Higher spending of the country in the case of Slovenia means, above all, a higher debt. A debt that has already collected about 10% of the total budget. Unfortunately, the road from recession through state spending reminds us of the False Hooker, who pulled himself out of the swamp by himself, so that the source of this spending should be either debt or higher taxes. Our government has done much on expenditure — the former, our first government. Another government of ours has done more on taxes, even though we have raised a number in the previous one. But I'm glad we're done with this ungrateful work now. Tax stabilisation is a point that we no longer negotiate or talk about. It is a fact and a promise to which I bind my confidant to the government. When we talk about what one government has done and what another government has done, very little is said about what that government has done, which should respond adequately to the global financial crisis. Very few words, because she did very little, and what she did, she did in the wrong direction. The former government has been paying the price of that crime, and so must it. However, I cannot overlook the fact that each change of government requires its own tax. It's a little lower if we make a decision about the new government, maybe technically, without an election, and much higher if we make an election. This budget is Plan A. At the Committee meeting, it was mentioned that we also need Plan B, and I agree. It would be nice if the government also prepared plan B, what we will do, how we will react if things do not move in the expected direction despite all the efforts. We also need Plan B in order for all coalition partners to be aware of what it means to deviate from the road map, what it means to drag and throw pollen under our feet in the process of privatisation, seeking likeness and short-term benefits instead of serious reforms, which are the only ones that can normalize our country in the long run. The promise of fiscal stabilisation is personally sufficient for me to wait until the end of the period that we have set ourselves in this coalition to implement the coalition agreement. After one year of government, in a few months, we'll have a nice conversation with the Prime Minister again and we'll vote again on whether we still trust her. I wish I could then, with even greater confidence, if not with joy, confirm this. Not because of her or our government, but mainly because of citizens and citizens who deserve a stable and stimulating environment for their lives and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Today, the introductory explanation has already been given and it has been repeated that the government is increasing the amount of investment by 80% with this budget. When I look at the adoption of the budget and the budget balance, the differences in investment and investment transfers are only €18 million, or 1.5% in relation to the adopted budget prepared by the previous government, you say it is unrealistic. If you compare the incomparable idea of the implementation of this year's budget with the corrections, then maybe this number will actually be the number, but when we talk about the rebalancing, when we talk about what kind of government it's meant for, then it's right to compare comparable things – the adopted budget, the 2014 plan and the 2014 revised plan. However, if the problem is in the ongoing implementation of the budget, then you have been in government for 7 months and managing the budget, planning, implementing and so on. I cannot believe that the government would increase investment expenditure by 80% if we see capital investments, transfers to roads and railways falling by 100 million euros. EUR 100 million is lower in what you have proposed, and we now propose amendments to put these items at the level of the adopted budget or budget prepared by one of the previous governments. So I find this very cheap and irresponsible that you have misused the matter by those who have presented the budget and the changes, and you have not properly explained the matter. The second thing is, I think the problem is that we also have some amendments relating to the implementation of signed contracts for this budget. This is said to be the problem if the investment part of this year's budget is not realised at the expected levels, it is also the problem of reducing or blocking the absorption of signed contracts on the basis of, I don't know, European funds and anything else. The next thing that seems to me to be a problem, and here I would ask for an explanation from the Minister, are these additional inputs into the economic society. Here is an increase of almost EUR 200 million in capital shares in public companies and companies owned by the state and municipalities. From almost nothing to 200 million euros. I would like to know what these significant capital increases are, what they are intended for and so on. I also expect clarification on this first part – whether this increase in investment matters is actually 80% or only 1.5% if we compare comparable things, the plan on the plan, or, I would say, subordinated to the adoption of this budget, all pure manipulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? I can see that I am, so I'm opening an application for debate. We are still in the general part of the 2014 draft amending budget. Four panellists have been reported. The first is Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting goes to both Ministers, Secretary of State and Secretary of State and all Members and Members! At the outset, I will say that I will support the budget change, the 2014 budget rebalancing and the 2015 budget. Not because he's good, but because it's a compromise. All those of us who have participated in the development of budgets at national and local level in the past know that this is not easy. In particular, it is not easy in these difficult situations, in the situation we are in, because there has been a recession in the country for some time and there is also an economic crisis. The revenue side of the budget is the one where the opposition warns that there are too many taxes and lists all those taxes that this coalition has accepted with the government. I think and I'm sure there wouldn't be any significant differences. Since Comrade Marko spoke of the first and second governments earlier, I will not repeat this. Perhaps the current opposition, if it had been in the government, would not have had greater manoeuvres and would have filled the revenue side of the budget with such a form as this government or this coalition is doing, perhaps with some smaller nuances. Here I am thinking mainly of income tax, the income tax of legal persons, VAT, excise duties and property taxes, which I do not particularly want to talk about today – some of you have done so – because this item of the agenda we have as a special point in the coming days, and we will have a great opportunity to say what good and bad this new tax is, but not entirely new, because we know that apart from one municipality in Gorička, all other municipalities have some kind of property tax – this is a compensation for the use of building land. We must save, and we will also save on public servants. Investment expenditure will also be reduced. Unfortunately, many of these investment expenditure are the ones we are reducing, and thus we do not make the necessary economic start-up, especially for those involved in construction, because construction is in some way the engine of the start-up economy at all levels. Expenditures remain at the same level and the cost of interest is rising, which we have already heard a great deal about today. Unfortunately, this is when you are under every condition forced to obtain credits for the smooth functioning of the state and the system of the country as such. However, I have one point to point out, which in some ways alone in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia we mention most – these are pensions and pension regressions and at the same time social transfers. Indeed, pensions have not been harmonised in recent periods. Last year, too, we agreed on a minimum, or rather should not mention it, since the pensioners were kind of punishing us for one, two euros a year. As I mentioned earlier, pensions remain at the same level. Regression is given to pensioners at the same level as last year, and we also consider this contribution in some way in our parliamentary group, as we have been most alerted and rightly cautioned, as a large number of pensioners, 276 000 pensioners have a lower pension than EUR 500, and if we were to reduce this segment, we would have made an even greater number of impoverished citizens and citizens. Personally, I think that in the near future we should somehow systematically cut into different areas of the public sector. You know, every government is trying to do something about this segment. Unfortunately, governments have not done enough in the past. If we do not systematically start to regulate certain matters, we simply cannot say that we have a good intention to save the country from the situation it is in. You know, some of the criteria in the public sector are actually inappropriate for the time, conditions and moment in which we are. We cannot afford some standards that cost us enormously, and the situation and condition of the country are unfortunately at the same level as they are. Once this is resolved, we can also look forward to a better future. A great stranger and a great void for the next year's budget is the abyss caused by the banks in the past. This is not only the responsibility of the bank’s management, but also the responsibility of the borrowers, in any case, of those who approved it. It is also the fault of those who did not investigate it, those who did not make complaints, and also those who did not judge in due time. All those who have made mistakes in this process should simply and simply be brought to justice. Until we do so, citizens and citizens will not feel that we are taking care of them as representatives of this people. You know, if I had a magic wand and the possibility of changing this budget by my own will and judgment, believe that in many cases it would significantly increase the items and, on the other hand, it would reduce with a heavier heart. But this room is simple and I simply do not have it, so I will support, once again, the 2014 budget change and the 2015 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State and Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Initially, I support the 2014 draft budget and at the same time add that the basic contours of this budget have been created in another government, which one of the fellow Members of Parliament has appointed as his government. I must say that those governments were not exactly considered to be a caregiver of public interest, at least as regards education and science and culture. That is why my debate at the time of the adoption of the budget was very critical, but the opposition at that time was able to support the budget in the history of independent Slovenia for the first time, because of the adoption of an amendment which brought 16 million to higher education, so that higher education could survive the academic year as intact as possible. From this very point of view, I am also monitoring the correction of the budget or this revised budget, as we have before us in the form of an updated draft budget for 2014. Today, many observations were made at the expense of the supplementary presentation of the budget. This strengthened my conviction that some expect to hear what they themselves think. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is there any record of the content of the supplementary explanation. As a result, I think it is unacceptable to intervene in the form and content of the supplementary explanation by means of business proposals. Any person shall be allowed to do as he has decided on behalf of the proposers. If someone in the draft budget does not understand the direction of this government, then I am sorry that he has either overheared or missed discussions on the working bodies where interested labour bodies have addressed individual areas, individual parts of the budget. If I recall at least these — I was alone on four, even as a debater — it is not my intention now to fully repeat it, even though this pattern of repetition that has already been said has been consolidated in the National Assembly. However, let me say that some of the basic policy outlines of this government are from these debates and can be quickly learned from the budget, such as where this government places education in the entire vertical area. It places it as its priority focus by looking at how much funding is earmarked for education, science and sport in relation to other segments of the budget. Of course, someone will miss more expensive investments in sports infrastructure. But if we compare Slovenian sports infrastructure with European sports infrastructure, sports area according to the number of inhabitants, then in the next financial perspective we may not be able to obtain that we will not draw financial resources because the standard we achieve with sport infrastructure is so high. This is an investment in public sports infrastructure, not in private sports infrastructure. A completely different story is in telecommunications infrastructure. Much will have to be done here in the future if we want to step in with Europe, because we are already lagging behind in some areas. But as far as public education is concerned, things are improving. The question is what will be the effect of that famous law called the ZUJF, which some thought would be such a good foundation because it brought such great savings. It is only necessary to calculate precisely what he has promised, what he has not done and what it is necessary to settle because certain things have been detained or perceived as inappropriate solutions by a constitutional decision or decision of the Constitutional Court. The other thing that is worth mentioning about education, science and sport is that some of the plans for amending legislation, however, also mention an increase in funding for this area. It is true that more resources for private research should also be relied on. The next area that I think is indicative of this government's policy is social. Let this be a common name for many things, which is in the field of social policy. I do not say that social transfers have proved to be in the budget as those whose height will increase, but at least the decline in social transfers funds has been halted. Amendments to legislation that has already been dealt with on the labour market also correct certain legislative provisions which were not good under the previous Law on the exercise of rights from public funds by redistribution. In just two cases, I have tried to show how, even in a very unfavourable financial situation, by directing funds and looking where they are going, it is possible to understand what government policy is like. I let go — not on purpose, but I left it behind — another area that was very neglected in the previous government. It's an area of culture. I cannot say that the trend of falling funds for culture would be completely halted, but some resources have been allocated to some areas by redistributing the most critical gaps in the financing of culture. What I cannot be satisfied with is, for example, that there is, in the strategic documents for culture, for which I consider, a resolution on the national programme for language policy or a resolution on the national programme for culture, a number of things without concrete financial effects, or only the implementations of the budget in individual years will show how far these strategic orientations will actually be achieved. Here my concern is expressed in the language policy whether we will be able to achieve all the good goals and measures that the resolution document brings if we do not provide the budget with the appropriate means of implementation, for example, language equipment measures – here I am referring to the funding of the dictionary in the main sense – if we know how low amounts are allocated in the budget for the promotion of the Slovenian language, what it would be like, if we want to implement the Slovenian language as a teaching language in higher education, to finance the Slovenian language in an amount of money, because it is also necessary to provide the means of translation, lecture and so on. I would not go into all the details, but if we do not provide or support this with financial means, any principled commitment to Slovenian as an official language and as an educational language also in higher education will be a dead letter on paper or a high-flying goal that will not have a real realization. I do not say that everything in this budget is so that it gives a person pleasure, but for me it is a real budget, which I think will also help to sober up. Speaking of sobering up, I'd like to warn you about another anomaly. Sometimes it sounds like some kind of science or teaching that it's only possible to spend as much as we've created and that we can't be indebted. It is interesting that the most vocal advocates of this science, at the same time, oppose any measure that would prevent the provision of increased funding for individual programmes or resist certain transfers from being coordinated. I think it's a lot of misdirection, but I understand that the opposition must be offensive. It would be good if she was still real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u116	Thank you very much. As we have heard many times today, the budget is one of the most important acts of every single government, and it is normal to have a thorough and long debate every time it is adopted. For us who are not yet in Parliament, it is always a surprise to hear the arguments that arise from the opposition in such a debate. The opposition, too, has been said repeatedly, must be critical, must be alerted to errors, must keep an eye on each position, and wish that it was at least a little more constructive and should at least take a little more into account the situation in which this specific budget is adopted. The concrete budget, as in the last days in the very long debates on Friday and Saturday, and even today, has been repeatedly highlighted, is art possible. In a given situation, we are seeking some fiscal consolidation, some sustainable financial stability of the country, and, on the other hand, we want and encourage measures for economic growth, and in so doing, we want to preserve the social, just and also the rule of law. It is most easy to take individual measures from the context, criticise them, want more of them or put themselves in the position of one stakeholder group and seek its interests. The great art is to unite all these interests and put them together in some logical whole, in a situation where I say even more simplistic, when the budget cash register is empty and when the debt is virtually no longer possible. If we do not bring new funds into this budget box, there will be no more pensions, social transfers, salaries for public servants, child allowances and everything else in one month. If we want to fill it in cash, to repay it, it will be virtually impossible at this point or we will be in debt at an interest rate that is practically impossible to cover. This is not the reality and cannot be blamed by this government and Positive Slovenia. I stress this over and over and over again. We cannot and do not want to take responsibility for the first time in history after six months of rule that this country is where it is. We just don't want to take responsibility. For six months, we've been doing everything we can to get this boat to swim, to stay above water, or, as the Minister of Finance said, to get this plane out of a steep fall. In this we do not want help, God forbid, opposition – help us as little as possible, please, if these measures, which have been so far, are helpful – but at least correct in some of the indications. Some of the arguments in this debate are indeed not correct. In the situation we are in, we are also due to the conduct of yours and the previous governments. We started with the rebalancing of the previous budget at 800 million holes and continued at many cadavers, says our Member Jerko Čehovin, who fall from the closet – not skeletons, but cadavers. Apparently, this government will face all the problems that have accumulated in recent years of poor governance. Not only is it obvious that we will be the ones that are going to bite in the nuts that have been wiped out, this hard nut that has been crawling through our drawers and towers for almost 20 years, but also a lot of other things. Here I stood and you had a suitcase full of me when I pointed out three contradictions in the so-called ZUJF, with which you intervened in some of the rights acquired, and this is also something that this government must deal with – with concrete claims – in such a bad situation. Further, wage imbalances or adjustment of the pay system and wage ratios. That's what hit us, too, and we didn't expect that. There are some such measures that this government must take, because no one has yet chosen the power, political will or courage to do so. I'm not going to talk about the Real Estate Tax Act, but as we all know, it's been about this tax for 20 years. But every time it came into effect, every time a political suit was clearly found to be an acid apple that was not politically worthwhile. The consequences of such sour apples — many of them — are here today, and this government must bite all these sour apples. When the budget needs to be filled, the second argument is that such a law is still at least bad, that it has the least effect on economic growth, that it governs the real estate sector, including the real estate market, the area of rental relations, the regulation in the single area of human property payments, which they possess in accordance with the principle of equity – all of these are arguments that convince them. These are also some of the so-called structural reforms that Europe and the others are constantly reminding us that this country must finally accept. When one government finally goes after them, opposition is enormous again. As was the opposition to pension reform, as was the opposition to the black work tax and could still be listed, and many of those who have prevented these structural reforms in the past are now criticising those who still want to resolve what to get rid of. That's not right. You also provide some untrue information. I don't know how many times we've heard here on this page that the previous opposition, the current coalition, including Positive Slovenia, has stopped a bad bank project by collecting signatures. That's not true. It was for this second referendum that our parliamentary group, as you know, submitted, in time distress, photocopies of Members, who were immediately stopped by the then President of the National Assembly as inappropriate, and you cannot blame these inappropriate signatures for stopping the bad bank procedure because they did not because the referendum procedure in this case did not even begin. So some things just aren't real. Also, this coalition, the former opposition, has never with procedural and other proposals prevented the former government from adopting documents which, by law and by procedure, must, as is the case here with the motions for postponement of the meeting, with proposals for withdrawal of the item, with proposals for further clarifications. Now the Governor of Banka Slovenije should come, and you from Umar should come, but even if you did come, you wouldn't give the right information anyway and so on. Please let us do our job now. You've had your chance, maybe you'll still have it, and now it's our turn. When we talk about the budget, it is true that no one can be too pleased with it. Members of the coalition also stress this. It represents the art of possible, but it indicates a possible direction of development. Our actions taken by this party or by the other party are not so different. But there is a different way we have taken these measures. We are committed to social dialogue, to dialogue with all social partners, to a fair redistribution, because some of the arguments that make us decide on measures are realistic, not selectively interfering with the rights of those or those. We are constantly looking for a balance between intervention in rights and between new, say, tax obligations. It is also not true, which we must stress over and over again, that we do not know how much taxes we have already accepted on this page. Let's be realistic! This coalition has accepted a value added tax, which our party has already announced in the pre-election period, and which we all know was necessary and has caused minimal damage or is determined that there is no harm at all. Then she raised her gambling tax. The price of happiness was then raised even more significantly by Loteria Slovenije a few days later, and now we are talking about this sour apple, which will be a lot of talk at the property tax. The real estate tax will settle an area that should have been regulated long ago. Just a few words about the other measures. The budget is just some kind of core. In this regard, however, there are many laws that clearly show the direction that this government is going. There's only a few of them I'd like to mention. The fight against the grey economy. First of all, I'm talking about tax checkouts. I'll tell you again what we're saying. Tax registers, as now introduced, were those types of cash registers that could be introduced by that government as quickly as possible because they were ready. After 3 months of operation of this government, the introduction of these tax boxes was possible. If it turns out that these tax receipts do not have the effects they would like, the effects they have had in neighbouring Croatia, this country will examine after 6 months and decide on another solution. I think that this is a much better solution than waiting for tax receipts to happen, I don't know how long until we invent optimal cash registers or push them through the legal process. By looking for solutions that are the fastest and fastest to produce results. The same in the area of combating the grey economy. My friend Pogačnik has already raised his hand and said that this is not really a struggle with the grey economy, but that it is the promotion of the grey economy. I don't think so. The Tax Procedure Act brings some extremely important solutions, such as the extremely tightening of fines, from a thousand 200 euros to 15,000 euros, for those who cover up taxes. The time of limitation is also increasing. The number of persons to be held liable for tax debt is increasing. And most importantly, it brings the reverse burden of proof as to the so-called tax gap in the case of a person's declared income and lifestyle, real estate, movables, expensive travel and other, pointing to something strange, to a cousin in the background, the tax administration will have the opportunity to ask that person how it came to this income, and this person will have to explain it. If this is not satisfactorily explained, this will be taxed by 70% on newly discovered assets. Some of the gentlemen are completely confused, Mr. Pogačnik. This has nothing to do with the illegally acquired property governed by the DPONI. The law on unlawfully acquired property is governed by another law. This law, as your side and our side have found out, has been in force for six months now. He was accepted by another government, but he's inoperable. That is why our government has already arrived within six months — already in coordination between coalition partners — with the proposal to amend this law, which will make this law operational. We're looking for quick solutions again. Moving on — What else do people require? To tax those who can't tell where they're from. Here. They demand that we do something about banks — the Banking Act. If the solution requested by the European Union is that the damage caused by banks is not fair before taxpayers and I do not know. That's exactly what the Banking Act does. The equity owners who have risked will be at risk of success of the bank. As it is possible that there is no risk in the economic field, there may also be no risk in the banking area. This is a very important solution that this government is implementing. Those who thought they would make money with bank papers must bear the damage if the bank failed, and there is a security guard here that only damage to the value they would receive if the bank went bankrupt. In the same law, we extend 4 times the limitation for banking offences. The Bad Bank Act, as you know, explicitly states the obligation for those who review back claims to report irregularities to law enforcement authorities. As far as the rule of law is concerned. There's a lot going on here, too. The commitment to justice has been adopted, and in the field of justice, it is apparent that proceedings are being resolved more quickly. The same measures in this direction were presented with the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. We are moving on now – criminal procedures must also be accelerated, the new CAP is being prepared. I could still talk, but only a few answers to how the government doesn't know where it's going, doesn't know where it's going, doesn't know what it's doing, doesn't know how it's drawn up the budget, how it's unrealistic, and so on -- we know exactly where we're going, but the fact is that solutions to such a bad situation and everything that's been wrong in the past can't come in six months, and they won't come in one year either. If we're gone when these solutions give results, it's no big deal. The main thing is that this will be better for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u117	Thank you very much. He asked the mag for a replica. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u118	Madam President, thank you for the floor. In view of all that was said by my colleague Kociper, 3 minutes for my replica is not enough, but I think I will try to answer at least some of the key questions, and perhaps the rest later on in the 2015 budget debate. No one in your government is aware that you are responsible for the court’s salary judgment — 170 million. However, it is clear that you did not include this 170 million in the 2014 and 2015 budget. We're reading Virant's mathematics that he's offering you a 9 percent interest rate. We do not tell you that you are responsible for the compensation for the deleted, but we tell you that you have not included these compensations in the 2014 and 2015 budget. I don't know where you found the tax receipts. I do not know that in Slovenia we have tax registers. We have a minister of finance, we have a special matter, we have a program, but we don't have the tax registers they know in Croatia. Another thing you mentioned. You are responsible for these 8 months for all the tax burdens you have made. These are the main actions of this government. I will count them to you: value added tax, real estate tax will be accepted, because otherwise your government will not, the amendment of the Income Act. This is a hidden tax that burdens the 4-member family for 330 euros a year. You're blaming them. Annual benefits for the use of roads, RTV subscription, student tickets and students. You've raised your legal fees. These are the measures we remember you by. Do not say that the opposition opposes this. Tell us which marriage we were giving you, say, a stick between syringes — not for one — or to withdraw it. With regard to the property tax, we simply demanded that it be appropriate to have a public hearing on the importance of the law and on so many different matters. SDS is a party to principle. We supported the fiscal rule, we supported the referendum even though we are in opposition. Not fooling people and not saying things like that. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mag. Stanko Stepišnik wanted to answer some questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u120	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Respected and respected! I owe Mr. Tank an answer. For 2013 and 2014 respectively, the government has three guidelines for the repurchase of State guarantees according to the loan and the increase in the capital shares. For example, under the Guarantee Scheme Act, the Guarantee Scheme Act for Natural Persons, the Guarantees Act, and so on, 20 million funds were spent in 2011, and 31 million were planned in 2014. The Ministry of Economy’s financial plan also provides funds for the rehabilitation of businesses and the economy, for the assistance of firms in difficulty and for the promotion of technological development projects and projects through financial engineering under the Bank’s SID programmes. The second item is the increase in capital shares of investments. In 2013, 3 million 600 000 were used to increase capital investments in companies and spending is no longer planned by the end of the year. 2 million 765 thousand 282 is estimated to have been used to increase capital shares and investments by the financial institution, and the use of funds is estimated to be slightly higher by the end of the year. In 2014, it is estimated that there will be an increase in capital shares and investments in companies of EUR 200 million. The funds are intended primarily to help firms in difficulty in the form of capital investments. It's probably that capital inadequacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Today we are talking about changes in the budget for 2014 and 2015. This budget was basically planned by another government, the government of Janez Janša, and because it did not plan and because the revenues were not real, we need to make a change to this budget. I am pleased that this government, together with all the parliamentary groups and with all the ministers who form this government, follows that knowledge is what will bring us out of the crisis. We have said many times that Slovenia is an elephant in a knowledge-based society. If we follow this course, we also follow the course of giving a person what is rightfully his or hers. You know, I've already heard about some new directions that our country or our society is supposed to follow. Just so you know, in France, women who go to hospital because of their children only have three days of hospital per year. They have much less maternity leave than we have. Do we want to follow this path, or do we want to follow what our society has decided and what our citizens and citizens demand from us, sometimes peacefully, at the last adoption of the budget – which we remember, years ago – and loudly and violently? I am pleased that the Government has found this dialogue among the political parties that form this government, as well as among the social partners and also among the other actors who expect some of this budget, if we know that this is the most important act in Slovenia in the year. This is the most important act. Behind these numbers that are here – many of which we have talked about on the committees themselves – many projects, many activities and many people who depend on it are life-dependent. It is therefore very important how this budget is produced and more important how it is then implemented. We have adopted quite a few resolutions in the National Assembly this year. One of these is the resolution for young people 2014-2022, which sets out a number of activities that the state or government will have to carry out. Certain implementation plans and these implementation plans are subject to specific numbers. If this budget hadn't followed this, then we couldn't have given the young, we couldn't have provided the elderly with what they expect us to do. As I have already said in the first debate, the budget is not such that it can be quick, but this government is not guilty and not the previous government, but all governments from 1990 until now are guilty of having the situation we have. We're talking too much red tape. Listen, who hired who made this organisational structure, both in individual ministries and in public administration? Here we will have to take certain steps, changes, but not overnight, but as I have already said, thoughtfully and in cooperation with everyone. I am therefore pleased that, despite being in such a difficult situation, the budget follows what we wrote in Positive Slovenia to follow and support a knowledge-based society to support public education, public health and care for those socially disadvantaged groups who cannot help themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. I have previously asked one question about the basis on which the statement by the President of the Government and many Members was made that, in this budget, 80% more is earmarked for investment than in what she planned, say, the Yangsh government. When I did a comparison of the comparable things adopted in the 2014 budget, which you say is unrealistic and what you are proposing is only 18 million and 1.5% of investment and investment transfers. I would like to comment to the Minister on the reasons on which the items are based that the investment is 80% higher than in the budget adopted. Secondly, I would also ask the Minister, who has made an effort to explain that he has listed some of those companies in which you will load those 200 million. This seems to me to be an important matter given that you were so mysterious in your explanation and you said three quarters of what I didn't ask you, and just a little bit of what I asked you. I'd like to ask for the names of those companies. However, Minister, I ask you to explain this enormous increase in investments of 80%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u125	Thank you so much for asking. I must say that I am not a "stole" and even in our ministry we have nothing to predict in advance which companies will be in trouble. This is how it is envisaged for those companies that will have problems. Which will be in 2014, but today is difficult to say. Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u126	Wait a minute. All the debaters you wanted got your word. [[advertising from the hall]] Wait a minute, I hear you. I'll open the application to the debate. Given Mr Tank's procedural question, I cannot say that this was just a procedural question, but there could have been a debate on your question. I listened to your debate and I understand what you wanted. Representatives of the government will assess when they decide to respond to all of this. Mr Zvonko Černač wanted to make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The Minister's reply to the procedural question, which I think has been quite correctly asked, was a bit of a mockery. I don't think it's a joke. It's 200 million euros. It is a minister who has received funds for his own company in a discriminatory manner apparently, and a reasonable question is asked whether it will also be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u128	Is this a procedural proposal or is it an abuse of a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u129	whether a fraction of these 200 million euros will be found in the Government's accounts to help businesses in difficulty or a large part of this 200 million euro. [[...]] This was a question – where, how the criteria would be, and where the number 200 million was taken from. Because if the minister doesn't know how many companies he's going to be in trouble with, then where did he get the number 200 million? Then why isn't this number 500 million, or a billion, or maybe even 20 million euros?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u130	What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u131	The question requires a serious answer, but in particular requires an answer in this direction: does this government, with its ministers, create rules for the game by having access to funds to which all businesses in this country, who are in real trouble, access only some in a discriminatory way or have access to it by others? This issue is particularly raised in the light of EUR 4 billion 800 million in debt, which will hit us on the basis of the decisions of this government and this coalition in the coming year. I think that now was the richest year of debt in the Pahor government, where the annual debt was around EUR 3 billion 200 million. 4 billion 800 million euros, 6 to 7% interest rates, and we're going to be able to do it ourselves. Yes, but who will pay, respected government team, that interest rate and that debt? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u132	Mr. Chernač, you're abusing the motion!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u133	I think that the question has been raised very correctly and procedurally, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I expect you, the President, only to call on the Minister to raise the right question, which has been raised in accordance with the procedure, that a very clear, unequivocal and unmistakable answer, as we have already heard from this government, and also with the reactions of most of this ministerial team.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mag. Stephen, will you answer again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u135	Of course I have to. Thank you so much for your kind words, really. Thank you again for being well-trained. Also, that you were doing a good job of lawyering because we had interviews, so I went so far as to see where 200 million planned for 2014. I did not say dryly just that for 2014, we need 200 million to help companies that will be in trouble with capital mismatches. I went a little wider to see from this – and by chance you weren't in the hall at the time, you were out because you came in later, but nothing wrong. See when you mention funds, subsidies to businesses and so on. Look, we all own some papers or some new financial company or someone has some shares from some bank if they ever wanted to help, like, a Maribor bank. When it was 27 euros, we bought it, and I bought it - it's worth nothing today. All those companies whose co-owner you are – those companies should not receive State aid or subsidies. Do you know how wide that is? If you have shares from a new financial company, you are a co-owner of 100 companies in Slovenia, and now you need to check that none of these companies can receive aid or subsidies because I am a minister or what? We're doing it right, we've done it right here, we've done it right by law, and we're doing it right. For the second time, you must first study the procedure, review the laws, and then make such statements and discredit the person in public. I don't like it because it's not with arguments, but it's with some power you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u136	Mr. Blackach, would you like to discuss it? Procedurally, as you have discussed the content before, I cannot give you the floor under the rules of procedure if you discuss it in the same way as before. Unless you're going to make the right suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u137	I have already made the right proposal, Mr President-in-Office. I have to deny the minister – I have not offended him, but I have found out the facts. But I must say, I'm sorry he didn't answer, not to my colleague Tank. We didn't get any answers, absolutely none. The figures he cited when he spoke about 2013 and the aid to companies in 2013 are significantly lower. These numbers are significantly lower than what they are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u138	Mr Cernač, I propose that you apply to the debate and discuss the content.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u139	If you'll let me finish. I would expect the Minister to have already notified himself that he is answering the question raised and that he is also answering the questions raised. Unfortunately, we still don't have those answers. Where, in what way will these 200 million euros go to which companies? On what basis did the Government decide that this figure of EUR 200 million is correct, why is this number not 150 or 300 million? What were the bases for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u140	Mr. Blackach, next time I warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u141	We have not received this answer and we expect it, because also the debt could be lower and thus the obligations for citizens in the end result.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u142	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, you have a procedural proposal. Please, everyone who applies in a procedural manner to comply with the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u143	President, I promise you, I will only talk about the procedure. I will not allow this trip, as Mr Chernač has allowed it, and before that Mr Tanko, who spoke about the content. The procedural question is about procedures. Now I'm going to show you where you've abused this and stolen time from the National Assembly. You were talking. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm talking about procedure. They both misused the procedural question that your watch was ticking, while you took the time of the minister to take advantage of the time of the government. Excuse me, Madam President, in such a case, we must not wait for three minutes, but we must stop and get used to them immediately. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, they should take advantage of the time they have, as they themselves have reserved. They had the opportunity, and they did, and they reserved time for the debate. As part of this debate, you can ask questions from here to eternity. Whether you're happy with them is your problem. All the time I have a feeling that whatever you are told and whatever you are told is that in the end you will not be satisfied, and therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, please, if this order is respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u144	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind all Members and Members once again to stick to the Rules of Procedure and to explain their procedural proposal, not to speak and discuss the content. Each delegation shall have sufficient time to discuss the content. Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The government wrote in a document sent to the National Assembly that the Government will be represented by the President of the Government and all ministers in the budget. I asked the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Choufer, whether and on what basis the statement was written and stated that 80% more investment funds are in the 2014 budget balance than in the adopted budget adopted by the previous government, the Janša government. If I compare data, if I add up investment data and investment transfers, there is only a difference of 1.312 billion in investment data for 18 million. That's about a percent and a half. What the President of the Government has said here has been repeated by many members of the coalition, and now I ask the Minister to explain to me the assumption that this 80% increase in investment funds has been made. That's the third time I've asked you that. If none of the ministers who are here, both ministers and no one else can explain – now for an hour and a half – then something is wrong with this budget. There's also something wrong with someone booking 200 million in the budget without knowing who. Not that I know of, because the purpose is not defined. This year was €3 million and this has been spent, it will now be €200 million. Who, who? Such blind items in the budget are likely to be even more, and such items allow the Government, by law on the implementation of the budget and the Law on Public Finance, to freely redistribute funds for the purposes it deems necessary, not for what is enshrined in the budget. That's all this is about. With the powers you are about to legitimize, you will redistribute resources from deaf, blind items to other purposes. I would very much like an answer, because if I don't, I'm going to ask you a procedural question next time. By not answering, the government does not respond that the government does not comment, that no minister can cover the statement made by the President of the Government, something is seriously wrong. If the realisation of investments doesn't work for you, you've been in power for seven months. Before that, she praised the President of the Government for what you've done in the last seven months. I ask you very much, Minister, to comment on this or to explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u146	Now I can find that in the SDS you spent 12 minutes on procedural proposals and Positive Slovenia 3 minutes. The government gives an answer when it decides. The government will decide when to respond to procedural proposals. The debate is still under way. Someone raised their hand — do you want to discuss it? Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening an application for debate. The government has the opportunity to apply for answers when it decides to do so. The application shall be made. Two Members have been notified. The first one has the word Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u147	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I should like to start by saying that I will support the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 as well as the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. Today we have talked a lot about whether this budget is real or not. That's what both of us are. It is common for all the budgets so far to come when governments are convinced that they are making real budgets and the opposition is convinced that these budgets are unrealistic. This debate that we are listening to today has been open to us for many years, every time at every new budget and every balance. I have had the opportunity to monitor the budgets created in three different so-called crisis governments, from the end of 2008 until now, and I can say that the issue of reality and the criticism of reality has been emerging in all these years. At that time, we had three so-called crisis governments, and each of these crisis governments was trying to deal with the crisis in its own specific way, and the area that she thought she could manage and make the most of its contribution to the resolution of the crisis was very much stressed. For example, Pahor's government has been reducing investment and material costs, and it has stressed this very much. Janša's government has been reducing public sector spending, and this has been strongly stressed. Even today, some talk about this very much. The current government of Alenka Bratušek is more stressing the increase in revenue at the expense of taxes, while continuing with the measures already implemented by the previous crisis governments, except those which have been constitutionally disputed. I think that, however, it is possible for all three governments to say that they have tried to deal with the crisis in their own specific way, that they have also been relatively successful in doing so. For all three of them we must say that they are also responsible, even if it is only 6 or 7 months of rule, for the situation as it is in Slovenia today. The reality of the budget is always seen in the need to rebalance it in the coming years or when it is being implemented. There is always a rebalancing, so there is no need to be surprised and to speak dramatically about the need for rebalancies because some expenditure has not been taken into account because it always happens. The European budget for 2013 is currently in negotiations for the 9th balance, and no one is overly surprised by this. I would say that these three governments, which I am mentioning, have also taken a disproportionately deep approach to reducing costs for the defence sector or for all national resources. I am referring to the defence sector because the majority of the Defence Committee did not allow us to familiarise ourselves with the defence sector budget, and we need to talk about this today. I would like to point out that it will be necessary to slow down the appetites after the reduction of the defence budget, because it would not be good to expect a future war or a future natural disaster as pre-disposed losers or pre-accidents. I am also saying this because today is November 11th, and before 95 years ago 11 November, a peace agreement was signed at 11 a.m. that ended World War I. It is therefore very important that we speak today about this budget, which unfortunately also has a major impact on defence expenditure and also on expenditure relating to protection and resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The adoption of the budget should be a holiday for Parliament and the government, but this is not possible in our house. Today we are dealing with the history of budgets, with the government of Janez Janša, who is passé and I am no longer interested. I must say that no one is ever fully satisfied with the budget. I've drawn up eight municipal budgets, that's the 6th state budget. Always the same — even in the time of the fat cows, when the money was enough, it was never enough. Today we meet an unsuspecting song: savings, taxes, triplets. Did you tell people what a threesome means? That it is not someone who will bring order to the country, but it is a reduction in pensions, a rise in taxes, a reduction in social rights, a payment of health care and so on. It's a three. And more unemployed! Consider Greece, Portugal, Spain, and so on. Europe's great economists have not yet found a recipe for how from the crisis, unfortunately. The problem of the public sector. Many times today have been heard that the public sector has not yet contributed to the resolution of the crisis. Please, the real sector has contributed. The coast, SCT, MIP, Prevent, and so on have contributed. Who's in jail? The tycoons from what area? We are also the public sector. Let's say what our wages were, what were they like 10 years ago, what else do we get next to pay, and so on. We're all contributing to this. The downsizing of the public sector, the start-up of it alone, means the poorer service of the country to citizens and citizens. You can't do that without it. I am pleased that our Minister, Mrs Kopač Dark, has maintained social transfers. Even more money has been provided during this crisis period, which is right because there are more poor people because there are more unemployed people because there is a need to help those who need help. That is why I will also accept this budget with my teeth tightened, because at least two billion, if I still had a minister of finance, would make it easier for all of us. But today it is like – we are paying debts from a period I don't know, even mistakes, and we need to step up together and solve problems. Here there is no SDS, SD, Positive Slovenia, here we are, and we must provide no mess, no teasing to the government and so on to pull the wagon out of this mud. That's all. When Comrade Tanko walks around the hall and laughs, then I know the devil took the joke. That's what they say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I must say that today I was a little surprised that Members are asking me procedural questions because I thought you would get to know the procedure better than I do, which is not from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, would you like to discuss it? Procedurally, I ask not for content, but for procedure – in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia writes who will participate in the substantive debate on the budget, and we ask among other things, then from those who are still here, and the first among them is the Minister of Finance, I expect them to provide substantive answers. They're not there. The budget balance shall be drawn up on the budget adopted. The difference in investment items is 18 million, Minister. The President of the Government said that 80% more is earmarked for investment. I asked for a substantive explanation. Is that true? For 18 million in these items represents only 1.5%. I can get you a computer. You're a doctor, and you're probably calculating it a lot faster than I am, and that's in mind. Given that this is a top topic today with regard to these changes, that many of your Members have repeated this, I would ask only for an explanation from the Minister of Finance, whether we are right to question this information, whether the President of the Government, who sold it to the Slovenian public, is right. Because we are rebalancing the 2014 budget. We're not doing anything else here today. I want to know if it's a statement, a claim, or a bluff. The Minister of Finance, given that you've coordinated the preparation of the budget, should probably be able to explain that. We're expecting an explanation. If you speak in this way about the budget, as Minister Stepišnik said, or you, when you do not answer, then there is serious doubt in this budget. If the coalition goes blind to the government and accepts this budget, at least in our party we feel so much responsibility that we will not support it blindly and we want concrete explanations. I hope there are responsible and competent people here, responsible and competent ministers to give these answers. I don't think they're difficult. It is only necessary to answer who is right — the Prime Minister of the Government who claimed this — whether we, who, on the basis of the data from the documents, find that these differences are only 1.5%. We're expecting an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's no desire to discuss general work. Mr. Minister Uroš Chufer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u155	I still think you're asking us procedural questions, but I think it's more substantive. So that we don't climb up on such details, I might still be able to answer you. If you look at the realisation for 2012 on purchase and construction items, investment transfers to legal and natural persons other than budgetary users and investment transfers of budgetary users total around 740 million. However, the proposal for amending the 2014 budget foresees a billion 300. I hope this will help you with your answer and understanding the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Here you go. Really procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u157	It has always been procedural, respected, and this time it will be. On your part, Members would expect you to remind the Minister of his undignified and arrogant conduct in the National Assembly, of his unworthy attitude. He does not allocate funds to his own budget. He is here before the representatives of the people, and he tells this people whether this government is a good or a bad master. This people wants to hear from the competent minister how and how this people will be indebted to an additional EUR 5 billion next year, and where this people will have to cover these debts in the coming year. It was also the wish of this people to hear the answer to the question of how it could be possible to allocate 200 million euros to help businesses in difficulty in 2014, if the minister himself said that they had been pumped this year, I think not even 10 million euros, nor 5 million euros. It would have been expected. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u158	Mr. Chernač, you're abusing a procedural proposal again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u159	to draw the attention of both ministers, especially the Finance Minister, to the basic rules of conduct that apply not only in the National Assembly but in society, especially because it does not talk about how it allocates its personal resources, but tells us here how it allocates our common funds and how it will allocate these funds compared to what was planned in the 2014 budget. [[...]] We did not talk about the implementation for 2014 – the rebalancing of 2012 – but we asked him about the implementation of the 2014 change to what was planned in 2014. For this reason, I expect you to remind and warn him that he is only in the National Assembly and that he is expected to be treated with dignity, but above all, people's representatives expect this to tell this people why he will charge him with additional taxes, both he and his government, to cover the budget gap next year, and why the debt achieved this year at EUR 3 billion 200 million will need to be increased to EUR 5 billion next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u160	Here you go, mag. Stanko Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u161	Thank you so much again for such a wonderful performance. Now I'm going to read it because I'm going to write a lot down. Madam President Alenka Bratušek said that in 2012 – you can see a magnetogram – 740 million were earmarked for investments and a million 300 and more in 2014. That's 80% more. Figure it out if it's true. And I said, besides that introduction, the answer to that 200 million. I'll read it again, and you can get a magnetogram and read it. In 2014, it is estimated that there will be an increase in the capital shares and investments of companies worth EUR 200 million. The funds are intended to help firms in difficulty in the form of capital investments. It was found that when we reviewed 3 000 500 companies in Slovenia, that companies were over-indebted in Slovenia by 30% and that about 30% were missing for good companies around 5 billion capital. So 200 million isn't much. But who will get it, but it is not known because it will be chosen according to some procedure or criteria, as is always done – the Commission will be set up and so on. That's not sharing it with me, you, ours, yours, and so on, that's not how it's done. Even when companies have requested restructuring aid and assistance from our ministry, the Commission is the Commission, and the Commission determines how much money an entity can receive in terms of its financial power and survival by means of a financial structure for 6 months to restructure itself, to survive and then to continue its operations. Also, all public tenders that are based on the tendering where they apply, are scored and the best win. Usually the criteria are so made that those who draw money in this Slovenia, not those who consume it, for example, for personal income or for something else. They usually receive these funds from export-oriented companies with an appropriate staffing structure, with an appropriate development and research structure and those with purchasing power, which have markets that increase their competitive capacity, employ people, maintain jobs or increase added value. In this direction this is being done, and sometimes I feel that, especially as Members, you should know how to apply to businesses on these calls and how to score, and that no one can get past this type. The one who's better wins. Those who apply are at the beginning of the line, but a small number of people reach the goal. Clearly, then, companies complain because they do not meet the conditions, they also refer to you Members. I get a phone, too, because it's not our turn to see why we're out. Sometimes even the border stands, say, 65 points, and it has 64 points – one point short. It's bad, but it's not 65. Set up, say, a border to 85 points, depending on how much resources are available, and be distributed to the best. There's nothing to choose from first, third, fourth. I think you probably know that, and sometimes it's really good that you don't ask if you do your homework. 200 million is planned for next year. I don't think that's enough, but no one knows. That's what's gonna show up. Those who are in difficulty, and according to the criteria to be set, will be selected by the companies. But if you used to work so hard that you started and got yours – we don't work that way unfortunately, at least I won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Minister Stepišnik. I am simply responding to Mr Chernač's procedural proposal. 235. Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discusses the participation of the Government in the work of the National Assembly. Article 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states, at the outset of each item of the agenda, that the applicant or his representative may provide an additional explanation. It does not undertake anywhere that, if the applicant is a government, he has to reinterpret it. The Minister will respond when he thinks it's necessary. You have a procedural proposal – just to be true.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u163	Dear Chairman! In this reply, Minister Stepišnik confused all the measures he had at his disposal. What he was saying belongs to other items, to other transfers, to other forms. We asked him about a specific item called aid to businesses or an increase in capital shares.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u164	Please procedurally, not content!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u165	Not software funding and things like that. The other thing is – Minister Chufer, why don't you give a comparison, say, with 2006 or 2001, and calculate the percentage of the increase [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u166	Please do not discuss the content of the procedural proposal. But in the debate, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u167	I asked him why he couldn't compare, say, to a flight like this. Once again, we have an approved budget and we are rebalancing the adopted budget. The criteria are probably dealt with on the basis of two columns – what was submitted for 2014, and what is being rebalanced is being corrected with this government's proposal in 2014, and here's the percentage, the difference [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u168	Mr Tanko, I'm sorry, the procedural proposal has been misused because you're talking about the content of budgets!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u169	I'm not talking about content. You don't understand. I'm asking. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u170	Content is also the amount of the budget or individual items!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u171	I'm talking about why it's not compared to a comparable one. That's the question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u172	You're having an argument with Mr. Secretary! It's not a procedural proposal, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u173	Mrs. Brunskol, be patient and listen. I asked why and how they calculated the difference of 80% on the two items written here, and one says the budget adopted, and the other says the budget balance. The difference is 1.5%.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u174	This is not a procedural proposal, but the content of the budget!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u175	Ma'am, you're weird. I ask how someone has to calculate such a difference in these matters. This is impossible to calculate. But if you compare the year 1999, there could be a 300% difference. However, we are talking about the adopted budget for 2014 prepared by one government and the rebalancing of the items in this adopted budget. That's what you made. The difference is 1.5%.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u176	It's called content.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u177	It's called a question. And I want an explanation. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u178	Mag. Majda Potrat has a procedural proposal and will now have the floor. This procedural proposal, which was the last one, spoke of content, and I will no longer allow it. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u179	Thank you, Madam Vice President. To make it clear why I called. Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure states: "A Member who wishes to speak on the application of the Rules of Procedure [[Procedural question]] That the Chairman's word as soon as he demands it. The speech of this Member shall not last more than three minutes. The President shall decide on the application of the Rules of Procedure." I respectfully ask that all those who have already asked me three questions, or I do not know how many times, to which article of the Rules of Procedure they refer when they claim that the Rules of Procedure have been applied. This is a procedural issue on the application of the Rules of Procedure. Under which rule of the Rules of Procedure can Mr Tank's questions and discussions be answered so that he is satisfied with these answers and will not forever demand new procedural questions. That's what this is about. The procedural question concerns only the application of the Rules of Procedure. Last time there was a speech about Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure saying that Slovenian is an official language. It doesn't say that a choir language is used in public, but that's the content. However, the application of this article was misused on a committee when we had unused Slovenian in a contribution we had seen on a commission in English. So, just the use of the rules of procedure. I am interested, for the third time, in which article of the Rules of Procedure concerns Mr Tank and Mr Chernač. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u180	We spent 18 minutes on procedural proposals. Given that I have previously warned and that there have been so many abuses in procedural proposals, honourable Members and Members present, I would like to inform you that you can sign up for the debate and debate, otherwise we are moving on to the consideration of a specific part of the draft amending budget. Would you like to discuss it first? [[advertising from the hall]] Technically, I cannot give you my word given that you've abused procedural proposals so far. [[advertising from the hall]] Mag. Spending did not talk about content, but explained what the abuse of a procedural proposal meant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u181	Madam President, the answer to the question of mag. Spending would be easier if you got an explanation on what she's now talking about for almost three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I see Mr. Krivec would like to discuss it. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Daniel Krivec will discuss the general work.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u183	Thank you. I'll be brief, and then we'll go to the special part. Given that we all have a budget ahead of us and are now discussing these percentages and comparisons. But we all know how to read, and it says, "Evaluation of realization, realization, adoption of the budget." The comparison made with the draft budget is marked with columns, and it says, "A change, four is equal to five minus three." This means: a proposal for amending the budget compared to the budget adopted. That's what we all have in the books. For individual items, someone cannot make a comparison, as he likes it, because in this case Mr Stepišnik could also talk about, I don't know, a two-thousand-thousand-thousand increase in capital investments, if you compare the incomparable – a reality for 2012, which was nothing, and the 200 million that we have now. Therefore, I ask substantively why we do not get the answer correctly. Because we are all reading and we all have material on the table, we are talking about the budget adopted – the Ministry has prepared a proposal for amendments, which is in the next column – and a proposal for amendments. Only enough to make it clear to everyone who listens to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the consideration of a specific part of the draft amending budget. Anybody want to talk? Since it does not want to, I am closing the debate on the specific part of the draft amending budget. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 9 November 2013. We are moving to the budget user 1540 – the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality and to discuss the two amendments tabled in this budget user. I am giving the sub-programme support to minorities and the amendment of the Commission for National Communities and the amendment of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1711 – Ministry of the Interior and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support for Local Self-Government and the coordination of the state and local levels and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1714 – Police and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes. For this budgetary user, I first place the sub-programme on Public Order and General Security of People and Property and the amendments of the SLS Group in the debate. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Jasmina Opec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We have recently reviewed the 2012 police work report on the Internal Affairs Committee, and in this report we have found that crime against property is increasing in particular. We believe that this trend will continue, which is not surprising. In fact, by raising taxes and contributions on fixed income, pensions and salaries, the available income of the population will be reduced. People react differently to that fact. Most of us reduce that part of our personal budget, which is called expenditure, and some of us want to have this available income at the same level, which they are also trying to replace with illegal transactions. The situation in the police is already alarming. If you go to the field, you see that there are no means the police would have done these tasks now, which they have to do in some normal way. You'll see that they've shut down certain patrols somewhere, so they can't, say, put in vehicles because they don't have the means to maintain this fleet. The safety of people, life must never be the subject of saving. Who will be responsible when people's lives are at risk and the police will not come to the city in time because they will not have their cars in order or because they will not have their cars in order because they will not have the basic means to get to the scene? Security and life are the segments where we must not save in any way, and we have therefore proposed these amendments in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also giving the sub-programme a sub-programme on criminal activity and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendments of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor and then Mrs. Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u187	Thank you very much. For the first time, I am speaking, but I think it is important that we say the following in this amendment. Whatever we're talking about saving with any budget user, we're probably going to run into problems everywhere, and we're going to find reasons everywhere to give more to anyone. But you have to say the next thing. As far as the Police is concerned – this is probably what the Secretary of State knows – operates with 80% of all the resources allocated to the cost of work, and the Police have an extremely small share of the funds for material costs and even smaller parts of the investment. We propose that on this sub-programme we increase the funds by just over €2 million. The situation is relatively clear. I think that we could soon see that the vast majority of the fleet that the Police have will be some over 2,000 vehicles – these vehicles were on average 7 years ago last year, from the reply of the Minister of Interior, my successor, and the last Monday on the questions sent, it was clear that the vehicles are now 8 years old and that there were no purchases this year, even though we planned, at least at the time that I led the ministry alone, that we would get about 400 vehicles. These vehicles have an average of over 200,000 kilometres. This means that on this item it is imperative that we try to help the police or the criminal police, even within it, and yet not take it away as much as the ruling coalition has taken it with the draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-11-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u188	Thank you very much. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today, I conclude the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm adjourning the session, and we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Nicely greeted!
