ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that Mrs Magi cannot attend today's meeting. Katarina Hotchevar and Mr Roberto Battelli. I welcome everyone here. At the same time, I apologize for the small delay in the opening of the session due to the direct event with the fifth anniversary of the third parliamentary programme. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a special report by the Ombudsman — the voice of the child. The Special Report has been submitted to the Ombudsman for consideration by the Assembly. In the introduction, I give the Ombudsman Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer the floor to further explain the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today it is exactly three months since I took over the protection of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. I am pleased to be able to come before you with something very positive, for I am sure the report on the Advocate – the voice of the child is something that brings positive news, messages and also a beautiful vision of the future. They say being a child shouldn't be painful. I wonder, and I'm sure you, too, whether that's true or whether it's happening today so that our children don't suffer. About five thousand of them are victims of various crimes each year, either neglecting their families or harsh conduct. But we can also talk about those who suffer very quietly in families that differ, because their parents, in the name of their great love for their own children, say that they will step in all legal ways to win, but this fight, which sometimes does not only remain in Slovenia, but also leads to the European Court of Human Rights, is long, traumatic and leaves great consequences for children. We can even talk about the suicides of young people, as well as their very difficult lives in the environment, peer-to-peer violence and many problems, including those in institutions. And so here before you is a special report by the Ombudsman on the defence, on the voice of the child, because we want to point out that the child is a creature that needs our attention, which needs to be heard, to give it valid and to help. The project was created in 2006. I am glad that I was one of the three grandmothers who were at the time when we gave birth to this child, who has now become a long-standing project of the Ombudsman, and that I have also participated in a special group until I took over the role of the Ombudsman, otherwise I am still a pilot. Of course, we didn't get official advocacy, which means it would represent a special institution. The purpose of the project was to establish, and it is still, the foundation of advocacy with us. To encourage the child to become a subject, to hear his voice, and to get someone to stand by him and to hear what he says and what he says in cases where his parents can't, can't or can't help. Of course, the goal is also to obtain a formal form of advocacy. The objectives were clear from the beginning and are also today – to move from this model to such good practice that we find an official institution to take over the advocacy. To develop protocols to establish a network of co-ordinators who are professionally qualified and will be able to offer all possible assistance to children. To be incorporated into the legislation – it was placed in the Family Code, which fell at the referendum – or to be adopted by special law. Initially, it was thought that the project would only be implemented in five areas in the Republic of Slovenia, but there were so many desires and needs from elsewhere that we extended it, educated advocates elsewhere, and now this network contains as many as 88 advocates. You could say, a little bit, maybe a lot, nine are coordinators. And if we ask ourselves how many children he was assigned to, we hear 250, but we can immediately find out that he could be many more. However, it is difficult to place it in cases where the parents do not agree, as it is then necessary to seek agreement, to replace it by the Centre for Social Work. Sometimes it takes too long. The proceedings are ongoing and one day we will find that this child no longer needs him because the court of first instance or second has already taken a decision because the child is already in the process of being appointed by a number of experts, who also mark him. Where do initiatives come from? Especially by social work centres, which is positive. This means that the centers are aware of the need for a child to need someone else to be alone. It is also positive that it can happen that a pediatrician feels the need for a child to need someone because he realizes that he is getting sick, even in the mental field because of the problems he has. Mothers want him most, both here and there. In recent times, fathers have been moving in a positive direction, when they have become very interested in the child at the time of separation and if their ideas, goals and desires are to help the child, positive and not disruptive, this is certainly very positive. Stand up in about a week, sometimes we need more. The youngest child was a three-year-old girl. Although it is hard to imagine that the project will be successful in three - year - old children, children barely begin to talk and hardly communicate what they think. But we tried and we were successful. Of course, even with an 18-year-old, the average age is about 10 years. How many meetings are there? At least two were 23, on average 10. The problem is where parents don't give consent, as I mentioned. There's always an opening meeting, and it's always final. In the introduction, you learn about what the project, what the proponent brings, talks about the results in the final meeting. You have certainly read about what the children say, what the participants say in a report with only 47 pages of annexes. And you have certainly seen that it is positively assessed by all those who have entered it, either as child advocates or as those who have appeared in some aid network and project creation, and this is certainly something positive. I would also add that at the same time after Slovenia we have equipped friendly rooms that offer places for meetings, either with advocates or with those parents who cannot meet their children freely, but need some external control, i.e. a third party. It must be said that it is extremely successful if a good advocate continues to deliver his messages to a good lawyer from a child. I told the good news because we did not always have this happiness — and it is not today that lawyers who become victims, and this child, take this situation so seriously. Because they are usually used to standing on the opposite side and not on the victim's side. And if anyone needs a child in the criminal and civil proceedings of an extremely well-trained advocate, and on the other hand, if he is on trial with him, also an exceptional officer. In recent years, the Commissioners have also claimed compensation for the harm caused to the child. Money is not everything, but sometimes in these cases it offers an opportunity to educate these victims of crime. The Constitution is clear, the convention is clear, there is no more dilemma to ask the advocate yes or no. So many years gone by, so many successes. The only immediate powerful dilemma is how to proceed this way. Is it still within the framework of the Ombudsman or, as we have written down, within the framework of a stand-alone institution? We are aware of the Ombudsman's need to take this step, although for difficult times the path of independence will be even harder, to establish an institution that will defend the child's very voice. At the same time, however, we know that the country is in a difficult situation and therefore there is no money for independent institutions. And that is why, and I would end up with that, we will be happy with the guardian if we can, and we will certainly continue with something that is so very successful. I would conclude with the thought of someone, it was a camp child who wrote: "If you don't get past the memories of childhood, it's like you're doomed to keep dragging behind you a box that's getting harder and harder and you'll always wonder what's in it. And there will probably be memories of a difficult childhood." Thank you for listening to me, and I expect you to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you, too, to the Ombudsman for further explanation of the special report. The report was also addressed by the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and the same opportunities as the mother labour force and drafted a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, President, to present the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. At its 12th meeting, the Commission discussed the Special Report of the Ombudsman – the voice of the child – for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. Mr Tone Dolčič, representative of the drafter of the special report, Deputy Ombudsman, stressed that after six years of the Ombudsman's exercise, the vote of the child as a project is a time to move forward towards institutionalising the defender, we establish it as the achievement of our society in ensuring children's rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. So the right to be heard, to be heard, to be heard by his voice wherever it concerns him. He also highlighted a great deal of support for the project of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as well as for NGOs that participated in the project group. Although they had no particular problems in terms of financing the project, the Court of Auditors pointed out that the project was actually extending year after year. The Court of Auditors also insisted that this project should be more institutionalised. The project leader, Mrs Martin Jenkola, representative of the Ombudsman, said she would like to draw attention to the right of the child to express his own opinion in all matters concerning him and to the obligation of the State to exercise that right. The aim of the project is to lay the groundwork for advocacy and to encourage the child to play the role of entities in all the procedures that concern him, to hear his voice in the true sense of the word and to enable him to participate actively. In cases where parents are unable to adequately represent the child's benefits in order to strengthen his/her position and to supplement his/her abilities, representation of the advocate shall be possible. It also stressed the importance of putting defence in law. At first, they wanted to legislate in the family code, and later they prepared their own proposal for a special law and the establishment of an independent institution of advocacy. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, State Secretary Dejan Levanič, said at the outset that the position of the Ministry was the same to the Ombudsman and expressed satisfaction with the project. They also support the Ombudsman's position that we should take a step forward in the future and institutionalise it, as it is now a six-year pilot project. The Secretary of State also drew attention to the financial situation in Slovenia and pledged to continue to support the project. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Boštjan Vernik Šetinc, stressed that they fully support the initiative of the Advocacy – the voice of the child pilot project. He highlighted the rights issues set out in Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is the right to an integrated system that enables children to express their views effectively. For example, if we do not provide the children of certain groups with an opportunity to express their views effectively in the proceedings, either because they are hampered by a language they do not know or because they have another obstacle, this may also constitute discrimination against children. The representative of the Association of Youth Friends of Slovenia Karin Elena Sanchez supports the Ombudsman's efforts to maintain the Institute of Advocates and stresses that the State is the one who must find a legal, systemic and long-term solution this year. Initially, she recalled that we had already received a recommendation from the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child in 2004 that children need a guardian of children's rights or at least a person who would only deal with children within the Ombudsman. Finally, Mrs Vlasta Nusdorfer, the Ombudsman, spoke and thanked first for all the praises and understanding and the fact that the Members have faced this report and have studied it well. She said that she, as a longtime prosecutor herself, had observed the need for children to need advocates and to point out that. She noted that advocates understand children better than lawyers, for example. As the new guardian, however, she stressed that during the last two months, from which she is a guardian, there has been a very large increase in calls, initiatives and a desire for advocates. She also added that she felt that there would be more need for advocates from day to day. After the discussion, the members and members of the Commission adopted a proposal for a recommendation which is an integral part of this report and will be addressed today by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you. Next is a presentation of the government's opinion. The opinion will be presented by the representative of the Government of Dr Anka Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Madam Guardian Vlasta Nusdorfer, Members and Members of Parliament! I would also like to welcome this report here. In fact, it shows a very good project in Slovenia, this is the Advocate – the voice of the child led by the Ombudsman's Office all this time. A great deal of work has been done. Above all, it is important that he has a child at the forefront, that is, a category that is among the most vulnerable and that needs our special care. Unfortunately, adults cannot always act only in the interests of the child and the country must enter here with its mechanisms to ensure the rights of the child. And this Advocate – the voice of the child is certainly one of the elements leading to the hearing of the child, to take into account his interest in all these interests and to ensure that all procedures are carried out as best as possible. Regrettably, I cannot say at this point that we will set up a special institution, a special independent institution, where the advocate of children's rights will be, but we will certainly continue to strive for the continuation of this pilot project, at the same time we would like to establish a legal basis for the advocate, as laid down in the family code. In looking for a systemic solution to this issue, we will also look at the possibility by the expert groups that when we institutionalise this institution, this advocate will also cover the rights of other vulnerable groups, both older children and others. We would like a comprehensive solution, and we will certainly continue to support this project, which is good, just as it has been exposed. It is good for children and it is our job to find financial means to provide the assistance they need and in some ways also belong to them under the conventions for those who are most vulnerable among us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of their parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Guardian, Minister, colleagues and fellow Members! Pilot project Advocate – the voice of the child, which has been implemented by the Ombudsman's Office for Human Rights for the past six years and is expected to continue to be supported in Nova Slovenija on the basis of the adopted recommendation of the National Assembly. Article 53 of the Constitution states that the State protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for such protection. Many of the problems in our country are related to the breakdown of marriage and family life, and as a result, they are reflected in the increasingly worrying plight of children. Children thus often find themselves in procedures in which important, judicial decisions are taken for them, but they may remain incomprehensible without adequate assistance. The report points out that children are often only subject to treatment, but not adequately heard, although they warned themselves and tried to express their views. The Ombudsman also substantiates the decision following the appropriate institutionalisation of the field of child protection due to the non-admission of the family code. However, after a careful review of the 2007-2012 special report, at least some of the positions of those institutions have been found in vain to draw attention to the new use of the concept of family at the time of consideration of the family code. In so doing, let me quote the statement made by the Commission of the Republic of Slovenia for Medical Ethics at the time of its consideration of the family code. I quote: "Let us assume that the new use of the term 'family' can have far-reaching consequences for the legal, social and private situation of individuals, adults and children. We believe that these consequences will reach out to the number of areas, that they are not fully predictable and that it is unlikely that all children will benefit. We have no evidence that all the diverse communities of adults and children are equally successful, equally safe and equally beneficial for children's development. We would like to draw attention in particular to one of the possible consequences of this understanding of the code that concerns us. Family life and, in particular, the birth and upbringing of children are linked to events and experiences that have a major impact on human destiny, luckily and other essential things for more than a direct impact on the family of parents and children. I'm sure we want family happiness for everyone. With all sympathy for the rights of adults and determination not to allow criminal discrimination or unlawful interference in private life, we must have the best interest of the child in the first place." [[End of quote.]] Child support is an extremely sensitive area that requires adequately trained and sensitive persons. In the flood of laws and other regulations, an additional special provision for the protection of children would not contribute significantly to the regulation of this area. In New Slovenia, we propose that children's advocacy be regulated in addition to the legislation already adopted and by improving cooperation between institutions. However, with appropriate family policies, the problems associated with demographic winters, a social behaviour, poverty and more can be facilitated.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you. Mag. Lejla Hercegovac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u10	Dear President, the respectable guardian of human rights, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! After six years of implementation of the pilot project, the Advocate for Children's Rights – the voice of the child in the National Assembly – we are considering a special report on the work done so far by all those involved in this area. The aim of the project was to lay the groundwork for the protection of children's rights or to enable the empowerment of children. The past, unfortunately, offers many examples of decisions made by children without being asked. The right of the child to be heard is one of the fundamental rights and values of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The child is the weaker person, always represented in legal relations by others, most often by parents or caregivers. It happens, however, that parents cannot properly represent them, and in such cases children need an advocate. This is the only way to hear their voice, and that is the only way their rights can be realized. And their voice can be heard today because we have, thanks to all those involved in Project 88 advocates and 9 coordinators covering certain areas. During the operation of the project, it was shown that advocacy for children was justified as it achieved the desired results. These results show that the functioning of advocacy should not forever depend solely on pilot projects linked to individual areas. We need to arrange for a permanent guarantee of children's rights. Unfortunately, this has failed with the family code, which, if enforced, would introduce some important innovations and improvements in the protection of children's rights. Among these was the right of children to express their opinions freely, which was to be regulated in more detail by a special law on the protection of children's rights. Perhaps it would be difficult to find someone today who would oppose the incorporation of advocacy into legislation and the establishment of an independent institute. When the report on the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities was considered, we were all of the same. We were unable to get past the government's opinion that, according to the current financial picture, the area could be optimally regulated. We have therefore all agreed that, pending the adoption or enforcement of a special law that would institutionalize the protection of children in a separate and independent legal form, the project, with the cooperation and support of the State in the same form as it is now, continues to be carried out by the Ombudsman, with a continuing awareness of the final objective: formal arrangements for the defence of children's rights. Let me end by thanking all the participants in the project for their work and excellent results.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Guardian and her co-worker, project carrier, MPs and Members! We always read every report of the Ombudsman very carefully in the Group of Social Democrats. This has been particularly noted, especially because this path reports to the Ombudsman about a project that has a happy outcome that can boast of good achievements, but has this bad luck that falls during a crisis where planning for new institutions is always equipped with a problem called resource planning and new employment. I don't think he's supposed to be in this country. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the institution of defence deserves an appropriate legal basis, so we also supported the Family Code and Article 186 thereof, which specifically stipulated that a special law should be provided for advocacy. In particular, I stress that advocacy is based on article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which requires that a child be regarded as a fully-fledged human being, not as part of a family or as a victim between two fires, but as a fully-fledged human being and a child must be given the opportunity to hear his voice. And this is actually the essence of advocacy, because the advocate is representing the child, the advocate speaks on behalf of the child, so he gets special knowledge that in more contact with the child he can learn his opinion, in particular stressing his opinion. The advocate does not primarily come from the point of view of what is in his favor, but his first task is to strengthen the child’s voice. The child needs to be prepared to tell what he thinks. Therefore, it is not possible to set time limits for advocacy when a child is fully capable of expressing what he has the right to say: to express his or her opinion. We have heard that this can be done at the age of three, but some are not able to express their views clearly in maturity. However, in the Group of Social Democrats we also assess the project from the point of view of how the project managed to achieve its objectives. If we look from this point of view to reach the project and the legal regime of the position of defence, we are halfway to the goal. Once again, as the government has reported, the project will be granted an extension. This is no longer a pilot project because 88 advocates cover the entire territory of Slovenia, and this is a message that still encourages us not to do this project of advocacy – to replace the voice of the child with another option in which we deal with discrimination against children or other residents. In fact, this is the responsibility of the advocate of the principle of equality, which is an anti-discrimination body and is also an essential part of the Ombudsman's role, and in particular one of the deputies of the Ombudsman, who specifically protects children's rights. Let me mention just one more thing that seems to the Social Democrats at this special Ombudsman's report worthy of special emphasis. The report is very carefully structured. Especially valuable is the part that highlights the theoretical basis for this project. However, I think it is particularly important to note that an evaluation study on advocacy also appears before specific or individual cases of child voice advocates. It's the lab of the Pedagogical Institute. It is said that he has created an elaboratory by an external body which has not been involved in the project and therefore has a special weight for the Social Democrats. And what does this elaborate at the top of the line say? It says that the pilot project Advocate – the voice of the child influenced the work of the advocates, the purely concrete changes that the advocates faced with new tasks and new methods, new approaches, contributed to a better knowledge of the subject and encouraged better work, as well as to the adoption of new tasks. The greatest benefit of this project is the impact of children. This is mainly a matter of raising public awareness of the breadth and depth of the issues related to children's vulnerability. This project helps to raise the public about child rights and their protection and helps to help the affected children live their childhood. What I have learned on my own with advocacy is that adults need to know that children in these cases are victims of adults, are involved in advocacy for the position that adults have brought them into. They didn't pull themselves together. However, they can sometimes be alone in legal proceedings, and they need an advocate to obtain adequate legal certainty. However, the most valuable thing for children is that they get the feeling that they are not alone, that someone understands them, and that someone is willing to represent them in contact with adults. A child with a proponent acquires a trusted person. And what does the public get, what does the environment get with this project? Surely these effects are more indirect, it is certainly a contribution to reducing violence and crime, and it also contributes to increasing family care, helping to raise general awareness of what is right and wrong, thus affecting the formation of values, and it is a shame that this article has not been brought to life in the family code, which would also give an opportunity or commitment to law-making. Most important, the activities of advocates affect parents who help them to be good parents. I believe that such a project requires all our congratulations and wishes to develop in the future so that it can come to life to the full. We will support the recommendation adopted by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Kurnjek will present the position of the Member State list.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Lady Guardian with a co-worker, distinguished Madam Minister, distinguished colleague, colleague. We know that children are our greatest wealth. Regrettably, though, most people with wealth do not know how to do our best. We like to lose it too quickly, but sometimes it presents such a burden that we cannot control or control it on our own. And when we ourselves do not know whether we can work with our greatest wealth, we call or wait for help. One such aid can also be found in the Project Defender – the voice of the child. We were informed by the Commission of the Special Report of the Ombudsman about the creation, work and all the advantages, as well as all the problems faced by all those involved. It follows from the report that the purpose of the project, designed under the auspices of the Ombudsman in 2006, and with the start of the implementation of 2007, was to ensure that the child is placed in the role of the entity in the guided procedures, that his voice is heard through the advocate in the right sense of the word, in order to strengthen his position in the proceedings, which would actually enable him to exercise his rights and also that the State fulfils its commitment to legal arrangements for the defence of children. This is some of the basic goals of advocacy in helping children who are victims of violence or who live with domestic violence. Official figures show that the number of children living in such circumstances is eerie. The victim of violence is estimated to be nearly 5,000 a year, and the child with domestic violence is estimated to be more than 7,000 a year. And, of course, we must not close our eyes that actual numbers are much larger. By May 2012, according to the report, 237 children aged from 3 years to 18 years, as we have already heard today, were allocated to the advocate. During that period, until May 2012, there were 88 advocates, of whom 56 were active at the time. It must be said that it is necessary for both parents or for the decision of the Centre for Social Work to be put on the stand as an advocate. And when an advocate is appointed to a child, his work is not only to speak for him, but to monitor his behaviour and spoken words during a certain period, which he can then interpret professionally. So, instead of speaking for him, speaking for him is his voice, explaining his will and opinion in the language of adults. In his work, he must be independent, objective, delicate and adequately trained. Not everyone can and can do this work. Otherwise, a brief summary of the data and facts convinces us that we need to stand firm in the view that the child's advocacy is absolutely necessary, so we also publicly thank the proponents and project performers – the child's voice. We are also, of course, advocating institutionalisation, which we see more in the context of the functioning institution of the Ombudsman. Since we feel that the institution of the Ombudsman is properly carrying out its mission, in the future the child's advocacy could become one of the areas of the Ombudsman's work. In this case, we have no doubt about the synergies of work in areas already covered by the Ombudsman with the field of child protection itself. Although we believe that it would be reasonable to arrange children's advocacy within the Ombudsman's office, the National Gazette of course supports the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a special law that will institutionalize children's advocacy in an independent and independent legal person who will defend the same services for all children in Slovenia, regardless of their place of residence. However, while we are aware that, in particular from the point of view of the public financial capacity and the situation, the time frame for institutionalisation at this point is difficult to set, we also support the further part of the recommendation to the Government that, pending the adoption or implementation of the new regulation of this area, the Advocate – the voice of the child be extended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, the distinguished Lady Guardian with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! First of all, thank you to everyone who deals with children, especially their problems. This alone, of course, also provides us with more good and happy families in the future, which is certainly one of the conditions for a healthy country and a healthy nation. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to point out immediately in the introduction that Members of the Slovenian People's Party have already discussed the family code, which has not received the support of Members of the SLS because of some of the provisions at issue and which later fell to the referendum, has pointed out the need for a special advocate or guardian of children's rights. The establishment of an independent institution of advocate as the voice of a child is also in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child and the applicable Laws on Marriage and Family Relations. In the SLS Group, we would like to commend the well-prepared report and the work designed by the Ombudsman as a pilot project in 2006. The problem addressed by the Special Report - the child’s voice - is meaningfully structured, content-based and illustrated by concrete examples. The project allows the child's opinion to be obtained in a particular process, so that the child's voice can also be heard in procedures that directly affect the child's further development and is one of the most important elements in identifying and providing the child's benefit. The purpose of the special report is also worthy of support, and we will also support the recommendations and commitment to extend the project after the debate in the National Assembly and to draw up an appropriate legal framework for the establishment of an independent advocacy institute, which would raise the current activities of the pilot project to a higher level and for all children equally, irrespective of their place of residence. The Court of Auditors also insists that this project should be more institutionalised. Above all, it can also be agreed with the guidelines put forward that it is necessary to train advocates who will be able to understand the child's problems when they speak about them or when there are signs that he has problems, to follow his needs and interests and to adequately represent him in order to hear his voice as directed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the report and recommendations of the Special Report Advocate – the voice of the child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. A very nice greeting to all, especially the Ombudsman and the Minister of Labour! The Preface to the Special Report states that the Ombudsman assesses that the rights of children set out in the Convention on the Rights of the Child are guaranteed in the Republic of Slovenia at a satisfactory level. At the same time, the Ombudsman also notes that children remain overly neglected, neglected or intimidated in court proceedings. Their true will so often remains unrecognizable or even intentionally excluded from the decision-making process, and the child is also deprived of that power of influence over his or her own life. A child who is in distress must first and foremost be assisted and adequately represented by his parents. This is both the right and the duty of every parent. In doing so, the child’s benefits must be the primary guide to their activities, taking into account the child’s opinion, in accordance with his age and maturity. However, when parents are unable to perform this role, are doing it inadequately or lackingly, the child needs an advocate. Sad to say, the fact is that most of the time the children are not heard by those who are called, parents, caregivers, professional workers, teachers. I wonder how difficult the child’s loneliness is then. How profound is the sense of insignificance when a child is overlooked by anyone who should hear such a tiny voice? We have grown up often with selfish beings, so our children are all too often forgotten in the great emotional distress we experience in these extremely stressful situations. Taking the child's voice into account is the essence of child support. The child’s advocate ensures that when a child violates his or her rights in adult society, he or she is not left alone or powerless. Together with the child, he explores his wishes, needs, fears, advocates for him and speaks for him in the sense that his interests and rights are heard and taken into account by individuals or institutions who decide on his life. Psychological research shows that a sense of control over one’s own life is an important part of one’s well - being — both a child’s and an adult’s. Adequate explanations of the issues involved, giving opportunities to express opinions and feelings, and creating opportunities for children to influence what is happening do not give them a sense of control and enable them to function successfully in everyday life. Taking the child’s voice into account leads to better decisions on the child’s life and better services and forms of care. At the same time, we must not overlook the fact that children often have a different perception of what is in their best interest than parents or professionals. There are situations where it is necessary to decide between the child’s opinion, wishes and the opinion of adults on what is beneficial to the child. This dilemma may affect different areas of child life, such as when deciding on the placement of a child, contact with family, school obligations, and leisure time. It should be noted that the involvement of the child does not mean that his wishes must always be heard. If that is not the case, he needs to be explained why and what the concerns of adults are. This shows the child that his opinion was heard and respected. The DeSUS Group supports the Commission's proposal for a recommendation on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities. After six years of implementation of the Advocate – the voice of the child as a project is time to move forward in terms of the establishment of an independent institution for the defence of children's rights. Especially as a result of increasing social distress, there is a growing need for advocates from day to day. Until the adoption or implementation of the new regulation of this area, we support the extension of the Project Advocate – the voice of the child. Interrupting the good practice of protecting children's rights to express their opinions would be a huge loss for children who need a supporter. We would also like to add that we support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue the professional debate on the continuation of the project also for other vulnerable groups, especially for older persons and persons with mental health and mental development disabilities. Let me conclude with the words in the Declaration on the Rights of the Child, adopted in 1959: Humanity owes the child the best he can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the special report and on the proposal for a recommendation. First, I give the floor to Mrs. Plevčak. And get ready for Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you for your words and warm greetings to all present, especially the Ombudsman or the children’s rights! I am extremely pleased that in this direction it is actively working, because we know that in the field of children's rights there are still such children who are neglected, who have no opportunity to seek assistance anywhere else. That's why the report makes me very happy, and I think this institution of the child's rights advocate was a remarkable project to go on indefinitely. I certainly support the implementation of the Project Advocate – the voice of the child. We have patients' rights advocates, we have trained doctors, we have children who are the most vulnerable population, and we do not have them, and we really should, once again, train and use this project immediately. In any event, the principles of equality and equal treatment must be adhered to when dealing with the rights of the child. However, we also see from practice that some advocates acted irresponsiblely towards children. We know some of these cases, we know cases that have been going on for too long in the resolution of these rights, and I think the Advocate here will be able to help a lot with the voice of the child. I will certainly support the report with great joy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Ludmila Novak and prepare Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u22	Dear Mr President, Minister, Guardian, distinguished fellow Members! We say many times, and we have already heard that children are our riches. Unfortunately, in Slovenia there is less and less of this wealth, and obviously we treat this wealth poorly, many times. This is because we all find that in Slovenia there is a lack of values and this is also a reflection of the state of society in which we are located. So I can say that we would need a child advocate sometimes, as we did yesterday, as the debate was quite childish. It's sad that we need a guardian of children's rights. You say the need will be even greater. I also believe that the institution or institute to be set up cannot solve this problem. Of course, I am pleased that we have this project, so that we will probably continue it, because children are really under severe pressure, unfortunately also often abused by parents who are separated. It's also a reflection of the society we live in. However, I think that we are treating wounds with this project, but we are not doing enough to prevent such wounds from occurring or more orderly. I also know the case of a family, a separate family, where parents were even stolen, and never returned, they will grow up because the courts do not work effectively. The judges have switched in between several times, and the trial is dragging. In the meantime, the children will grow up. All of this will leave a very large wound on them. On the other hand, we always talk about children's rights. More and more often, however, we find that we are not talking about the responsibilities of children, the responsibilities of parents, and the responsibilities of children. And that's why we have more and more problems in our society. But of course it's not the kids' fault. It's our fault, it's grown-ups, parents, school, the society we live in. When we protect children too much to be burdened with some physical work or domestic work and so on, I think that this is a wrong approach, and some employers also find that from generation to generation it is less working habits in children or in young employees. Unfortunately, they do not have jobs now, and this is another sad case. Someone said it was a great achievement to have an advocate for the child's rights. Unfortunately, this is also the sad result of our society. And our goal must be to have a regulated network of children's rights advocates, but these advocates will not have much work to do. Our goal must be more healthy families, then our society will be healthier, happier. I will support the continuation of this project, but as I have said, our objective must be to remove the causes of this situation and to ensure that these advocates have as little work as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Dragan Bosic and Mr Mirko Brulc is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Madam Guardian, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is difficult not to support this report and the continuation of the project by starting a little differently, thinking that the report does not cheer me up. I wish those reports weren't there. And that the project doesn't go on indefinitely, but that it ends. This means as soon as possible, due to the elimination of the causes that lead to these reports and to an institution that is unfortunately not. Perhaps the time of 2006 was more appropriate for the institutionalisation of this advocate than today, due to the above-mentioned reasons, which colleague Poturat also spoke about. I'd like to discuss it in a different direction. It is said that once again, I support the continuation of the project, although I would rather see that the institution that is established continues from the logic of not replacing any. By the way, the one who's been doing this for six years is a long time. Maybe a project and a job for a certain time, then some work comes in for an indefinite period, which would be meaningful and consistent. But I'd argue a little bit about this guy who's an advocate. We are now talking about children's problems, which are increasing by increasing poverty. About the image — Why? I talked to my grandson once, something pissed him off, and I said, "Yeah, who do you want to tell now?" And he said, "Hulku." Those who read comic books know the Hulk. This is a man who gets angry, gets green, and deals with everyone who gets angry. And then I thought about it a little bit. In fact, children are looking for comic characters that they can trust or turn to. Of course, the Hulk is too busy to solve the plight of children in Slovenia, but we would be looking for his ambassadors, some combination of these qualities. And what bothers me about all this? It bothers me that many people who are in this place are being selected slightly wrong. Priority should be some empathy. My humanist, the pediatrician Michič Turkova, who was admitted to the European Academy of Science and Arts in March, also thought this way. The specializations of pediatricians, such as specialties, are not always a point system. She warned, for example, Harvard. It takes three days to check or test suitable candidates. We had a look at the point. So you look at it, and it fits whether it has more points than the others, and it moves on. But the problem is that people who do detection, those who have to be subtle to these problems, are basically, as you yourself said, people who are employed in institutions of education, schools, hospitals. And this feeling, if you take the case unfortunately of the deceased, if you were born in 1910, you're still alive, Agnes Gonxha Bojaxhio, we all know her by the name of Mother Teresa, as hard as she was, there was this empathy. Kids need someone they trust at the start, and that means they have a polygraph in their head, and now I don't know if I, like myself, would step in front of a three-year-old kid and say, "Baby, do you have a problem?" I don't know if I'd respond properly. So, in this search of these people, I've remembered the number 88 is active, maybe we could put these qualities at the forefront. But I'd like to point out one thing. I have now been very involved with this Convention on the Rights of the Child. Some articles are very illogical, kind of illogical. I think they'd be worth a little overestimating, too. In particular, I would like to draw attention to Article 34, which prohibits illicit sexual practices with a child. The first time I read this, I was shocked, the second time I was even more shocked, because I can't imagine what practice is allowed. And we're signing it. This means that it would be good to have an evaluation; it is the final stage of a document that was produced years ago; it also has a history; it also gives rise to a European option. It's just one of the articles. I think this convention would also suggest a little overwinding or, like children, they call it an appendate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor and he is preparing himself for the Mag. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u26	All in attendance, all in attendance! Today something has already been said about the institutionalisation of this project. We know that this will not happen because of the economic crisis. If I turn to last night's debate in the National Assembly, it makes no sense for us to intervene in this way in order to organise this project, as we would like in Social Democracy. I'm very sorry that the family code was rejected. It's some kind of political pain because there's been a lot of effort, and in this code, there's a whole series of articles that protect children and children's rights. I think that it is also necessary to give the defence a legal basis and, last but not least, to provide the means. It's up to us and the government. We are always witnessing neglect of children, or in the family, in the environment, in school, and elsewhere. I think there are graves in the family, in the environment, in the school, in the playgrounds and so on, unfortunately, more and more that there are many difficult situations among peers. We need to know that nonverbal pressure on a child from schoolmates, friends can be worse than those who are pinched or otherwise avenged. The economic crisis has caused a lot of this, and there will be more. Yesterday, I read in the newspaper that suicide in Greece increased somewhat by 26%. We imagine what it means in this crisis when a parent can't give a child money for lunch, for new slippers, for something else, to take him on vacation. Trade unions no longer deal with trade union tourism in this positive sense of the word, since the capacity at sea has been sold, so that the poor will not benefit from any of the benefits that have been repeatedly mentioned in some previous system, which has been consistently mentioned as negative. I think we should do more here in society, because the Society of Youth Friends organizes colonies and so on, but it will be less and less. I must say that some children also bring patterns of behavior into their environment; they see it in the family, and then they behave in school. And I'm going back to yesterday's debate, in some segment I said that, in schools where we have psychologists, teachers, social workers and workers, some people think that this is a superstandard, unnecessary thing to cost. Today we speak quite differently – it is not a superstandard, it is a necessity, it is a necessity, it is so arranged in all organised societies. And in Slovenia this is very well arranged. The economic crisis must not be the reason for us to interfere with these segments of our education or education, for then the child comes into a circle from which he cannot get out – at home it is so, this pattern brings to school, to class, is unsuccessful. And the thing goes on and on and on and on. We don't know how much alcoholism and other difficult situations are in families. If society doesn't try to save them, then I don't see a solution myself. It's just one segment of the child's stay, the life I'm talking about, and there's still a whole bunch of others. When we discussed the family code, and even today I have heard the problem of diverse communities, family communities – whether politics cannot say, this family is happy and happy, and this family is not happy and will not be happy, and children cannot be happy in this family. Let's drop it! In the discussion of the family code at the time, we heard from the Vice-President of the National Assembly, "what a bologna doesn't hurt." What kind of slap? How many fingers does it take to know that it's not a nuisance, that it's not forbidden? How long is that allowed? These discussions have been huge here, unfortunately we have not been successful, but we could solve a number of problems. I think it's the right thing to do. We cannot be so optimistic as to say, and these problems will be no more if we arrange everything that is in place. We'll always have so many different problems. And those who need our help are the most vulnerable, these are children, minors, high school. We have to take you to the dam too, because there's a lot going on there. I think the nanny with her team is on the right track, but it's probably gonna come sometime when we do this differently and drive things the way we want it today, but it's not real because there's no money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mag. I don't see Ivan Vogrina in the hall right now, so I give my word to Mr. Joseph Horvath. But get ready for Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister, distinguished Lady Guardian with a co-worker, everyone's welcome! My sincere thanks to all active participants in this project Advocate – voice of the child. I vividly remember when this project was born in 2006, and I observed its birth as a Member. Of course, commendation for a truly exemplary report. I think that children, the richest part of Slovenian society, should be much more discussed than, say, raising RTV contributions or raising VAT. I understand that the meeting ended after midnight and that some are very exhausted, but I am disappointed at the presence of Members on such an eminent topic that we are currently dealing with. If we look at the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and compare the situation in Slovenia, we can say, "Yes, we are satisfied". Whether the score is three or five, now it doesn't even matter, and it's important that we set high goals, that we should never be satisfied with the current situation, and always have something to push us forward, that really, what has been said so many times today, that children are our greatest wealth, that it will not only be a phrase but that it will be our life practice, that we will do so to the politicians. When my colleague Brultz discussed it, I remembered very much the word "happy family" relationship. When I drive from job to home, 200 kilometers, I see different posters, jumbo posters along highways and other roads, I do not find in Slovenia one poster where I could see a happy family. And not just because of me, not because of me, probably because of the kids, but because of me, I hope they'd identify themselves, but they'd say, "Hey, we're such a happy family too!" I continue with the statement in my article recently written by the President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, Dr. Jože Trontel, saying: "The promise of thirty years ago has come true that in our century, which we are now living, they will be more often than ever expressed in the words of ethics and values. People see that a lot of things are wrong and feel that something has to be done. This is discussed at many levels and in many places around the world. In Unesco's Bioethics Committee, a number of programmes and even departments began to be abolished as a result of savings. Ethics have committed more money than before. They even took him out of the crisis fund. I think I must also welcome from this city the decision of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, co-founder of the Institute for the Study of Ethics and Values, which will support efforts to strengthen the educational elements in Slovenia. In schools, from kindergarten to university. In Slovenian school programmes, ladies and gentlemen, the words of value are astonishingly few times mentioned. Even a word of education had to be said from a number of texts. And I say and agree with those who say that education is a genuine act of love for all mankind. That's a very significant statement. The study, also mentioned by Dr. Janez Musek among teachers, showed that a large majority of them feel the need to reintroduce educational content. Of course, colleagues and colleagues, we all want satisfied children, we want and want satisfied children, as we do by advertising through networks, we report through the media that they will be more satisfied if they have many things – from a real iPhone, iPad to a great dog food for a pet. When's enough, what's enough? Many fears are willing to give all their money, all their free time willing to invest in pushing the child’s environment. They buy him the best computer, a better bike, they put him in a better sports club. In this way, they have not invested anything in the child, only in the outside. You're not investing in a child with money. You're investing in a relationship. By asking him for all he can do, and much he is able to do, amazingly more than we who are in our mature years. And in such a way that you can give him experiences that are different and that will help him to survive in a world that demands more and more responsibility. I underline responsibility and thus conclude my thinking and support the report we are considering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mr Branko Kurnjek, and Mr Srečko Meh is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello again! I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Commission personally and as a member of the committee for your work and for the work of all those who have participated in the pilot project itself and who are still involved. But here, first of all, with all my colleagues and colleagues, my predecessors would agree with their thinking and at the same time wonder that there is probably no reasonable person among us who would not talk about children in superlatives, who would not say that he would do anything for children in our power or in their power. And yet, the numbers show otherwise. Something must be wrong in our society, something must be wrong with us adults. Whether we ask ourselves in the right way, in the right frame, in the right places, what to do systemically, that we adults will become more responsible not only to children, but also to ourselves. The report that was prepared about his quality was said today. It could also become a model, perhaps a learning tool, to be put in some kind of service to read this report, not as formal as the report, of course, but as a basis for what is actually happening in our country, what is happening to our children and how these things can be improved. Such words may sound like floscules, but problems actually exist and problems need to be addressed in concrete ways. Once again, I really hope that you will continue with the project with such enthusiasm, enthusiasm, with all the expertise that I believe you can overcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mr Srečko Meh, to prepare Mr Marko Pavlisic if he is in the Chamber, so to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u32	I am pleased to welcome Mrs Vlasta Nussdorfer, not as much as she is responsible for this area, but because of all that she has done so far and it seems extremely important to me. In fact, the question that Mr Kurnjek raised is what we are going to do, what we can do at this point, what we can do. With this debate here in the National Assembly, we have taken a step that is important for us to speak in public in the most responsible place about what is the heart of our problem. I think that the RTV contribution should have been talked about and that it would also indicate a lot of talk about programmes, because many programmes are not suitable for children to watch, and we should be very careful about how these programmes should have. That is why I think this could already be one area of action for those working in the public service of RTV Slovenia. Of course, I think there's an enormous amount of work to be done on prevention. It is about connecting school with parents, connecting kindergartens with parents, environment and environment, sports societies, including the church. It is very careful to understand the needs of children in the environment. If we don't understand this, if we don't talk about it and we don't see what the kids are telling us, then it's very difficult to detect those problems that we don't know, that we don't detect and know that these problems are. Doubts in different communities, marriages, or communities where children live are in fact inappropriate. It is only necessary to ensure that children are fit, that the environment in which the child lives is the essence when we talk about providing a child with a community in which he can live as he is actually right. The question that comes to me is actually how to bring together some of the institutions that work in this area. I said school, kindergarten, environment, surroundings. What about social services? Does it work well? How, then, can we combine the police, the judiciary, and the congregation with the legal aid that people should receive, the education or information that parents should need? We also need to take the next steps when we talk about violence and the problems children have, in this case, to ensure safe houses and safe homes, and work and housing, and the environment that mothers must have, or those who have children. This seems to me to be an extremely important issue on which we must establish coordination of all parts, of all actors, so that we can see what is going on here. Of course, victims of violence know that they are not just families. Not just a close family, not a wider family, but that children are already victims of violence in many areas. And that is, in fact, to be perceived, harsh, very hard to condemn and not to let that happen. I don't think the education that this speech was about is just lessons to talk about. Education needs to be installed every school hour, and at every school hour we need to talk about moral values. We also need to talk about sport and culture and politics. By our own example, which we can set here in the National Assembly, we will talk about morality, and we will tell what our mission is. And this is actually what we communicate in the National Assembly. Our declaration support for the report and the activities that have been expressed is, of course, good, excellent and appropriate, and it is right to do so. Of course, we should now encourage these connections so that we have secure points in the congregations, that we can work, that we can understand, and that we can do all this. This is what we need to train, in fact, to raise awareness of those who know that something is wrong and cannot be linked to all the activities that can help the child most in an area. That is why I think this debate is good, the report tells us what is already done today and what else we should do. For us, it means that this principled view and attitude towards values, to education and to morality, to ethics, if you will, to incorporate into our work in the National Assembly, on the ground, that we are ambassadors of all that you have done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Mrs. Alenka Bikar is not in the hall right now. I give the floor to Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I would like to welcome all the present, all fellow Members and Members, and especially Ms Vlasta Nussdorfer and her co-worker. Today we are discussing the Special Report of the Ombudsman on the pilot project Advocate – the voice of the child. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to all those who deal with children and their rights. In particular, in this National Assembly, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the distinguished Mrs Nussdorfer for everything she has done for our children, including in the White Ring project and, of course, now that she continues her work in the field of the Ombudsman. I believe that dealing with the problems of the child, with the problems of his rights, is very important and very urgent today. Especially since we know that our society is in an increasingly difficult situation, there are growing economic problems. And of course all these problems are reflected in families. As a result, our families are falling apart and falling apart. And then the problems begin, and I think the shortest are the children. Since the child has less economic, social and symbolic power and thus an unequal position in relation to adults, that is why he needs an advocate. However, the right to the opinion or vote of the advocate protects the child from the State and its institutions. For all of this, the Institute of Child Rights is very important. Child support, as I have already said, is a way to protect his rights. The child’s advocate ensures that when a child violates his or her rights in adult society, he or she is not left alone or powerless. Together with him, the advocate explores his wishes, needs, fears, advocates for the child and speaks for him in the sense that his interests and rights will be heard, taken into account by individuals and institutions who decide on his life. In a broader sense, advocacy means and allows children and adolescents to have a voice in matters that concern their lives, in particular the right to express their needs, to express their observations, to express their wishes and thus to express their needs to parents and institutions. I am very pleased to support this project and the Commission's recommendations on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities. I also associate myself with the opinion of all the predecessors who have spoken about this issue and the solutions proposed today before this national assembly. Let me conclude with a statement by my colleague, Mr Kurnjek, who seems to me very much to be communicating. I also wish that adults would become more responsible for their children and for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, followed by the debate of the Magi. Tonino. I'm warning you, he's nearby. Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! I will also touch on certain matters that my colleague Jože Horvat mentioned and would like to say what we highlight most in New Slovenia. We keep reminding ourselves that we are living in a time of value crisis, which some believe is more crucial than the economic crisis. One and the other are connected, perhaps even the value has triggered economic activity. Children today receive insufficient educational incentives to achieve the values that people need as a starting point for their conduct. This has also been learned in the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and we can read a lot about this in these days. I would also like to point out that I am pleased that we have a project advocate – the voice of the child. The expectation and my opinion is that the child's advocate has visited and collaborated with other institutions in Slovenia, such as social work centres, SOS-telephones, safe points and perhaps could still list certain institutions that really deal with children, with their problems. And here I also stress the great concern and responsibility of the advocate of children's rights to come to social work centres where he can play a great role with his experiences and knowledge, because we know that unfortunately there are many complications. Many such sad stories about our children are heard on television. She would have touched the family code. Many articles have really talked about child protection, but I do not agree with all the articles that have fully defended the child and his rights. We all know that permissive education will have to be slowly removed from our educational patterns, which is particularly highlighted by Marko Juhant, a special teacher for behavioral and personality disorders, which we were able to read a lot about last week. What did he say? That children need to get used to the fact that there are bad things in life, that some thing breaks down, that some thing breaks down that we don't have to go buy it immediately, which is why the kids in panic call on the SOS phones, but that some thing can be fixed, and especially, if I illustrate, I read how he wrote that he put a pencil in his hands and said, "Look what a pencil there is and what a radiator there is at the end." That things can also be fixed with the radio, changed, and that life is better and that it is not the end of the world. As a tutor, as a parent, I would also like to stress that parents may fear that their children will dislike them if they set boundaries. I think this is where we're gonna have to get to know it. I have received some round tables myself recently, where parents simply ask how to set boundaries. I also agree with the child advocate here, but parents will also have to be brought up in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you, too. It's mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I wanted to correct the mistake because, in my first performance, I did not particularly welcome the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which I am now doing. But I'd like to touch some things. Since I have been closely following the Ombudsman's reports, the Ombudsman's Institute of Human Rights, I have noticed that some things are being covered up. We have a special law on the Ombudsman and his powers, powers and possibilities are clearly defined. I was one of those who advocated the idea that a strong institution called the Ombudsman was very important, so that people of different ages would come to it with their problems when their rights in relation to the State, the local community, were violated, is said to be in the public sector. Therefore, I am also pleased that we have one of the four deputies with the Ombudsman who deals specifically with children's rights. If I looked into the past, it seems to me that those recommendations from the Ombudsman's reports directly relating to children and the protection of children's rights are in fact the best recommendations that have been implemented. And that some of the other annual reports are much worse. However, I am also an advocate that individual areas related to the quality of life of children in our country are regulated perhaps also with other institutions. And so I see the advocacy – the voice of the child as a specific task that can be performed for my own good by an institution that has an appropriately regulated legal basis. That is why this special report seems valuable to me, because as one option, it also provides an independent institution. We've told you the possibilities at this point, but we're halfway there. I would quote here from the session of the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities the statement by Dr. Zoran Petrovič [note by the editor:wrong name – correct: Dr. Zoran Pavlovich], who is also one of the participants in the project, and he said: "This is a matter that exists, this is a matter that runs, here are dozens of qualified advocates who work, here are examples that run, this is not a project that could start and that would then end, and I would write a report, and I would say, it was nice, let us learn something from this and we will start again. It's a thing that runs and that has to be solved in some way or said roughly." Today, this possibility is that we will not kill this project gravely, but we will allow it to continue. But continuing it is also important. It must be resolved in such a way as to ensure that it continues to be of adequate professional quality. The expert working in this project draws attention to the advantage of this project that this project has always been accompanied by an appropriate level of expertise, quality of services. And that's important. He must be professionally well placed and be given adequate professional autonomy. This seems to me to be really important. When I listen to individual debates about family, about values, about the kind of education. I think it's still the right of parents to decide for themselves for the training doctrine that they're going to bring into their family. And in fact, the proponent stands when something creaks in the family and when the child needs to be appointed an advocate. I would like to refer to the experience of the project's leader, Mrs Martine Jenkola, who also said that their work was basically guided by the agreement of the parents to set up an advocate and that only ten percent of them had an advocate appointed at the request of the Centre for Social Work. I think that the parents themselves saw the need to empower the child and give him a trustworthy person a good sign, also because of what Mr Kurnjek said, and then colleague Popot quoted him as saying that we are also looking at ourselves as individuals in the face of the problems we are facing. I'm too afraid to overlook what a defense attorney's job is. The task of the advocate is to follow the child and to me is the best experience Mrs Jenkola quoted, the child who said he had said something and then found that he had made a false statement and he did not dare to say otherwise because he was afraid that everyone would leave him. This is such an important truth to me that the child has told. And that is the value – to say the point, to take this position. And here I see the position of advocate to prepare the child to shake off this fear, that the consequences, if he tells his position, will be so bad for him that he will remain alone. Remember how we usually react when we first meet a child. "Who do you prefer... ?".. Mommy or Daddy usually. And if the child is placed in a situation where even before an official institution, what the court has to say is, his fear and his distress is even greater than what he will say there. And here is my understanding that the advocate actually represents the child and his position that he is not the first to think about the benefits of the child – this must be a social work centre, parents must think about what the child’s benefits are in the first place – but to open up the child and the child can calmly tell how he thinks about his future and what he really expects. But there seems to be something else I need to point out, which I first touched slightly and did not develop in the opinion of the Group of Members. Indeed, he gave the State Council a very positive opinion on the report. We have expressed ourselves very positively about the report, but we have also heard comments on what else we should do, where things are missing. In particular, I have said that I see the task of promoting the principle of equality slightly different from that of the Commission. Protection from discrimination is a very important dimension, but it would itself advocate an institution that would establish the advocacy of the principle of equality as a special institution. And if I read the 2000 directive and one of its articles - now forgive me, I do not remember exactly whether it is paragraphs 12 or 13 - I think it is Article 13 of this Directive, which speaks of a horizontal advocate of the principle of equality being combined. Which means that various human rights violations are combined because of what protects Article 14 of our Constitution, either race, ethnicity, age, disability, whatever other personal circumstances must be protected against discrimination. I see an advocate of the principle of equality as one that links all these different aspects of discrimination at a horizontal level. I agree that, as the defender is now placed, as the advocate is now appointed, all his functions are not put in such a way that they can be fully realized. Again, we are faced with a new embarrassment as to how to improve the current bad situation on the way to when this is to be put in the way it should be. I would like to see a triangle: the Ombudsman – the Ministry of Labour – advocate of the principle of equality find a solution that is better than existing and would be on the way to being perfect, so to speak, not to say ideal, but to perfect. However, with my last question to the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, I have indicated that this is an important issue and that it is also important for me to protect Slovenia as a country from negative messages from the European Union. Once again, I would like to say that this triangle: the Ombudsman, the Ministry and the Advocate, who undoubtedly has experience in this regard, is, after all, already an analysis that has been prepared in the previous government and has offered some opportunity to find a solution that would not leave any of the stakeholders feeling that someone is interfering with their autonomy or competence. It should be noted that all these institutes have specific competences and that this is very important to ensure that they act within their powers as best they can, because those who turn to them are rightly expected to do so. That is why I would like to refer this part of the debate that took place on the Committee to the fact that I attach to the opening opinion, but I think that one of the colleagues in the opinions of the parliamentary groups said that the Ombudsman in the introduction notes that the level of protection of human rights in our country is relatively well regulated, which does not mean that it could not be even better. In particular, those who feel that their rights have been violated would likely expect something to be done even better. On this occasion, as always, when we are to do with the Ombudsman's reports, I thank the authors of the report, and in this case, in particular, to all those who have been involved in any way in the Advocate – the voice of the child project, and I want them to do well in the future also the mission that was also discussed, the public's awareness of these things, that the public will also know what is expected of each individual institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you, too. I'm still giving the word "magic." Barbar Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Respectable guardian of human rights with a co-worker! Today in the debate, among other things, I heard that we are healing wounds with the project. I'd say otherwise. The project shows that we are responsible for society, that we know how to detect problems in society, and that we can also respond to these problems. I will not say that I am fully satisfied with the system as it is, but I know that in all these years we have done a great deal in the field of the protection of children's rights. Even though you know when I ask myself whether Slovenia is really a child-friendly country, it is difficult to find a simple answer that would fully satisfy me. I say no, we have not reached that level, that we can say that we are an exemplary country and that we are a child-friendly country. In 2006, the amendment was adopted on my own initiative and I am still grateful to the late Minister, Dr. Bajuk, for listening to his wishes, needs, requests and budget for 2008 and for including an amendment which gave a special item or programme to the Office of the Ombudsman right for the Ombudsman's project. I am afraid that, because it is quite often heard, many times we all speak together in a public financial picture, we will never find enough funding to improve the project that started as a pilot project, or that we might even upgrade it under a special law or possibly within a special institute. I'm personally defending the guardian of children's rights. I am aware, however, of all the recognition of the past work of the current Ombudsman, who is aware that she has done a great deal in the field of child protection and that special care will also be given to this area in the work of the Ombudsman. But you know, years ago, when I was doing an analysis of how other countries within the European Union have regulated this area, I was surprised at how far back we remained. I will only mention the case of Sweden, where they have a guardian of children's rights, who enjoys the reputation of society such as the one enjoyed in Slovenia by the Prime Minister of the Government. The guardian of children's rights, who also participates in the legislative process with individual initiatives and which is also recognised by children as their advocate, is a guardian who can be addressed with various problems. This is what I think is one good positive practice and what my desire is to upgrade the system that we have today in our country. When I said that we have done much, but not enough, we have not yet met some of the European Union's requirements in this area. Slovenia still does not have an early treatment of children. This is a project that we are talking about, I don't know how many years, but we still haven't been able to get to the legal framework to regulate the early treatment of children. We still do not have sufficient respect for the child's benefits in family relations and also in court proceedings. I wonder how the institution of the child's advocate and the regulated family mediation are and how progress is in place compared to now, I will say, outdated legislation in this area, or sharing competences between social work centres and specialised family courts. As far as I am aware, it has also been a desire in the past to establish specially specialised family courts, not so, but within the courts of individual departments dealing with family matters, and I know that the benefits of children are not sufficiently protected or protected. We also heard about the importance of empathy. First of all, we are adults who need to show that we have compassion for the problems that arise in our society. And in the first place, yes, children are those who practically have no level of any of their advocates, their protectors of their rights. They don't. We have a category of pensioners who fight for the rights of pensioners and also achieve in legislative procedures that their rights are specifically protected. We have a very strong lobby, if I say so, on the side of consumer rights defenders. Also on the patient's rights protection side. What we lose is when we talk about children's rights and I believe that this is also one of the reasons why we have not yet reached the level that I think we should. When we talk about empathy, if I return to empathy again, by showing that we know or are sympathetic to the problems of children, to their needs – and here I do not rule out responsibility, even responsibility is an integral part of this process – we will, on the other hand, believe that we can awaken the feeling that we are worthy of trust. We who decide and make political decisions, and who, finally, also provide guidance on where our society can develop or develop. One of the colleagues in front of me said it might be time for a meaningful permissive upbringing to withdraw from our educational concepts. I wonder if this is the right way. Is this a developmental path? I don't want repression in education. I don't want to. Because repression is a step, several steps back. It is true, however, that when we talk about permissive education, whether in educational institutions or in the family, it is important to be responsible for the responsible conduct of children at the same time. But once again, we're the first adults to set the example. And if we don't know how to act responsibly, we can't expect our children to eventually develop into responsible citizens and citizens. You know, responsibility begins in the first place in this hall, in this national assembly, in respect of the Constitution. And in this area, we have fallen on a whole line in the past. But I'm not gonna talk about it. This may be at the next point because it will also touch on responsible treatment of the Constitution and our citizens. Perhaps another matter that makes sense to me, or may it be my loud thinking. I am afraid that with the continued emphasis on human rights, perhaps also the establishment of some working groups, some individual institutions that are fragmented across ministries, we have come to a stage where we can talk in some way about the erosion of human rights. The erosion of human rights in the sense that many times the responsibility that a family should bear in the first place for the protection of children's rights is transferred to the State or its institutions. On the other hand, the country withdraws from that field where it should protect children or human rights. This may be another extreme or other fear. It is said that the country is in some way overreacting to the family, that it is also taking responsibility that the family should bear on its own shoulders, and in cases where the state should prove to be a protector of rights, we fall. Also in the field of the functioning of the courts. Perhaps in thought, but this is not just my loud thinking, but many experts working daily on the protection of children’s rights have been working on this topic. The representative of the Advisory Centre for Children, Adolescents and Parents, Dr. Pavlović, said in one of the discussions on this subject, and allow me to quote him, because I personally consider him to be one of the very good experts in this field, but not just the theory, is the man who comes out of practice and I say that such people are extremely important when we talk about the systemic regulation of certain areas. He said that a concrete project by the advocate of children's rights touched the core of the concept of children and children's rights as such. The child is different from adults, especially in that he needs someone. After he doesn't need anyone else anymore, and he can operate independently and autonomously in society, that's when the baby grew up. As long as the child has enough functional parents at his disposal, he doesn't need an advocate. But when he does not have them, he is disadvantaged and then the need for a child’s advocate turns out to be. Therefore, the advocate must be highly qualified and have appropriate professional autonomy. Once again, proper professional autonomy. The fact is, and I believe that we have also made very clear in Positive Slovenia on the Commission itself, that the report is well prepared and that we will of course support the report. I hope and wish that in the future we will not, either in the budgets to be drawn up or in the budgets' rebalancing, reduce the resources for the operation of the Ombudsman. I believe that their work or the work of everyone who is employed within the Office of the Ombudsman during the period of crisis is growing. Poverty is also one of those very eloquent indicators or indications that people facing poverty need more help. Sometimes all you need is a word when you don't know where to turn. Even in these cases, I know that the Office of the Ombudsman is the institution that comes very well for a man in distress. I also hope and wish that the institution will be less institutionalised in the future and will be more responsive to the needs of individuals on the ground, because many times people who ask for help do not know the formal procedures to be carried out to reach the Ombudsman. I am talking about the Ombudsman, who at the same time performs the role of the Ombudsman in some way. These are things that are still waiting for us, and I believe that we will be able to sort things out in some way. I would really like the institution to respond to the needs arising out of the field and allow me only to conclude for the end with the words that I wrote down in 2006 in explanation of the amendment to the budget that was in the National Assembly, and I will say once again in appreciation, accepted. "Children are the best indicators of what kind of society we live in." I hope that we are aware of this today and that this awareness will also be dealt with in the decisions of the National Assembly when we discuss legal changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government, Madam Minister, also has the opportunity to speak here. There's no need to say anything else about it. The proposer? Here you go, Madam Guardian.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u42	Once again, everyone, welcome! Hello Chairman, Minister for Work, Family and Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, representatives of the parliamentary groups that you were in charge of, and of course also all other Members and Members of Parliament, who today have incorporated many of your thoughts, ideas and experiences into the mosaic of advocacy. At the very last presentation, I remembered the thought, I don't know whose moment this is, which says somehow that we'll have no better society if we don't have better children. One day our children will inherit us, and in fact, we may wonder too late about what childhood was like and why adults follow such paths. Often even psychiatrists in various, unfortunately, criminal proceedings also find that there have been many wrongs in the home family. And that is why such an important project is the Advocate — the voice of the child, especially if the family itself realizes that there is a need for someone else from the outside to help her. That is why it is also so important to agree, for if an advocate is put against the will of the parents, it can also have a divisive effect, and somehow this opposition also raises undue questions about whether it is necessary or not. I have the advantage of historical memory myself, that is, working 35 years in the prosecution and also in the non-governmental sector, where all the years I've been really best at monitoring my families. Families with children, families who are on the sidelines, juvenile procedures, sexual crime, and also sometimes so weak the situation of victims in various procedures. And when it came to victims – children, we found that they were found in the wheel of institutions, from social work centres, through the police, the prosecution, the courts, depending on where the matter came from. And at times, the child is needlessly exposed to a number of procedures. Today, many have also pointed out whether these long - term procedures can benefit even parents. I'm sure you don't. Because any procedure can hurt a child because he somehow exposes him because he has to talk about unpleasant things. So sometimes he is a very important advocate who stands by his child and lets him know that he is not to blame for what happened to him. Because our children are all too often guilty. On the one hand, parents' infirmities, even in the form of permissive education, from which we say good-bye, but to happiness and hope, we will never reach a repressive one, for both of these extremes can be extremely damaging. As we have heard, we are in a number of crises, including the crisis of values. That's what we're talking about. But children are certainly not to blame, even though they treat their peers violently, inappropriately. The family is the one who communicates a lot, and luckily the school can make up for something if it has suitable educators, teachers. It is not important to make marble and beemwei, which are affluent in some places, that family relationships are important. And where they are not, there is sometimes a proponent to let the child know that he is not alone, that he can talk to him, trust him, and follow him on these usually difficult and long journeys. I am therefore pleased that you have understood the whole essence of the project, which is certainly too long for the pilot project, but it is still better that it ran in such a way and produced such results as it might have died in the middle of the road and stopped. All those of us involved, we hoped it would last. Of course, we always wish there weren't so many children we needed. But I'm sure they will in these days, and we'll do our best. She's with me, you've greeted her many times, my associate, Lili Jazbec, in the office or with the Ombudsman, she's inherited a mag. Martino Jenkole, who spent all her years watching the project, but she is still working in Primorska, retired and remained a faithful project. And happyly, every time a group meets monthly with the Ombudsman – still for the implementation of the pilot project – called SIPP, I look into the faces of the participants, now I greet them as a guardian, before I actively participated in this group, because I see that they are committed to having with them as much staff and potential as they can. I would conclude by saying that, despite the difficult day in the National Assembly last night and also the long night, you are the one who came here and you discussed with a noble aim to support the report and tell him your great yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see interest in the debate. In so doing, let me say that both of you here are present, Madam Minister and Madam Guardian, please, if you would like, because you cannot apply through the device to express this desire. I'm opening an application for debate. The application shall be made. Four panellists have been reported. Everyone has five minutes. The first one has the word Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I have already discussed today, but during the debate in the National Assembly I have found another matter which I think is important to make public. I want to say the following. It saddens me that today, when we consider such an important report as the Special Report The Advocate — the voice of the child is so few. In particular, if I compare this with the presence and active debate last night in the National Assembly, when we discussed the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, when we stopped at the RTV contribution, which was of course important and needed to be discussed quite a bit, but I think that we have been able to step up this debate to such a limit when it was not necessary. I do not underestimate these 0.64 cents for which we have increased this contribution, especially I would like to say that I do not remember that in 2012, when we cut the RTV contribution, there would be so much debate. Even in DesUS, we are always affected, always having trouble pressing the "yes" button when it comes to burdening our citizens when it comes to promotion. But you know that we have discussed and explained why we need to change some things in our society because we simply want to come out of this crisis. I would repeat, I really think that we should be more involved in this debate today, because we always talk about how our children are our first concern, we would give everything for them, but I think we should also show on the outside that even when we talk about it, when we are problematic in our society, when we know that there are many problems that Members should be more involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Ambrožič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A nice welcome to Mrs Nussdorfer and her colleague, as well as to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social and Equal Opportunities and, of course, to fellow Members. Allow me to address this very important subject myself and to start by expressing my support for the recommendation made by the Commission on Petitions in the National Assembly on the basis of the Ombudsman's report. At the same time, I would like to thank both Mrs Nussdorfer and the complete team that has led the project since 2006, for the work that has been done so far and to share with you some of my thoughts or experiences, which I have also accumulated at a similar institute, such as the institute that is now being thought of, i.e. as a representative of patients' rights. Human rights belong, as we all know, to universal and constitutional rights. Therefore, the roots for the establishment of special guardians or representatives can also be seen in the second paragraph of Article 159 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states: "To protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to state authorities, local self-government authorities and holders of public powers, the Ombudsman of the rights of citizens shall be established by law." The law therefore allows for the appointment of special ombudsmen for individual areas. This constitutional record was followed by the legislature by the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman, which came to life in 2004 and under which the area relating to children's rights has been exposed several times today. We cannot help but say that the denial of human rights and the trampling of human rights throughout history has led to the knowledge of a civilized society that human rights must be protected by law or in a legal language, by means of laws that, in particular or more narrow than the Constitution or other legal rules, regulate individual areas. This is also where the project manager or the Ombudsman considers institutionalising this issue in the form of an independent institute, a guardian or an advocate of children's rights. Today, a colleague of Bosniak also raised the issue of the characteristics of existing and future representatives or guardians of children's rights. Part of the qualifications that this individual is supposed to have are likely to be able to collect from a related institute, i.e. an agent of patient rights, where the least university education is desirable, to enjoy moral and professional reputation in the environment and to be independent and independent in his work. In part, we could also select a few indents from the Mental Health Act, which, since 2010, has also allowed representatives of persons with mental health problems to be represented by this specific legal basis, namely the Mental Health Act, which also requires education and examination by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and under the new equal opportunity. I personally support this solution. We can see that today’s views on this issue are different. One advocates a stand-alone institution for children's rights, another to place this area in an already functioning institution of the Ombudsman, and the other would like to educate itself even in society so as not to abuse children, evil thoughts or acts. I fear that the latter will never be able to achieve it, but of course, on the way there we can all make every effort to do as little as possible. All directions are correct, but some are feasible immediately and others, unfortunately, are linked to long-term strategies. One of the discussers spoke today about advertising. Personally, I think it will be difficult to cut or affect the advertising cake of commercial advertising providers mentioned today by one of the speakers. However, if today's debate encourages such a form of family advertising, I sincerely hope that we will see on such posters the entire rainbow range of individuals, full of mutual love and love for children. That is why my support is towards the early establishment of a stand-alone institution of the Ombudsman or an advocate of children's rights. Until then, I support the implementation of the project, which has already started in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you. In the third, at this point, I'm picking up with some very precise purpose. You know that "Smart Reads" message. This trip didn't work out well because I said I was quoting Dr. Zoran Petrovic from the magnetogram, as it says in the magnetogram, but I actually quoted Dr. Zoran Pavlovich. And I stopped by with the intention of telling the services to fix it in a magnetogram, because that business deadline that could interfere with the magnetogram has already expired. Of course, I apologize to Dr. Pavlovich. If I had thought about it, I'd say the real name. And I, like Barbara Žgajner Tavš, greatly appreciate him as a great expert and as far as advertising and children in the media. We do have legislation, and I hope that we will all be doing more together, and there will be less abuse in the media world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Greetings to the guardian, the co-workers and the minister! At the same time, I thank you for applying for this job, for you have been chosen, because you are proving that you are the right person in the right place, and that by your example and by your experiences, and also by your view of the world, you are greatly contributing to what you are managing. Today's debate again proves that quantity is not important in this national assembly, which means that it is not necessary to have so many and so many Members present, but that quality is important and what Members and Members speak. I am pleased to hear this debate and also to learn that there are many Members and Members who care about the child, because childhood is the most important period in the creation of a human person. During this period, they acquire a system of values, develop their feelings, and, above all, gain and gain experience. Experience in this way gives them the environment, the environment and the society with which children cooperate, by working in different ways. The child acquires the most important experience in the family. And when the family fails, there may be various anomalies, but here in our country we have well-trained preschool education, school education and also various centres such as the social work centre. If these institutes and these people work well together – and I have to say that they work pretty well together, then the child has security. When the child is affected and feels safe, he will also be able to take advantage of all these potentials. When a child has someone he can trust, let it be his peer, let it be a teacher, let it be a social worker, let it be a parent, then the child can take advantage and say what weighs him down. But when a child does not have someone he can trust, then he must also receive help from the State, that is, from a confidant. I would say that I am glad that in our society it is also so arranged that children have the opportunity and the opportunity to speak. It is not long before the Ombudsman of the National Assembly, when the children of the children's parliament spoke what they wanted. You know, there's a lot of opportunities for kids to talk, but they're not listening, and they're not listening. That's the problem. And when kids talk and they don't hear, they lose confidence and they don't talk anymore. As a teacher, it is important for a child who has problems to see that we see him and then we can begin to react. That is why it is very important when we are talking here in the National Assembly about organisation in these institutions, as I mentioned earlier, in kindergarten, in school, that is, in the educational field. It is also easy for individuals to talk about norms, changes in standards, etc. If a teacher does not have the opportunity and the opportunity to talk and see a child in a group that has demonstrated by his behavior that something is happening to him, then it will be very difficult for such a child to help, listen to him, and then offer him appropriate help. Therefore, at all levels and in all this network of help and work with children, we need to pay attention and trust the people who do so. That's why I'm glad we're today and [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Kavticnik. Ma'am, would you like a word? Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u52	Last time, I promise. I would just like to thank the Commission for its petitions and for its human rights and equal opportunities and Eva Irgle as President, who discussed at the outset and understood the whole issue and also supported it. I would just like to add that children are not miniature adults, they are not reduced adults. It is therefore very important how we perceive them and how we follow them on this path of growth. And it is you who, honourable Members, are certainly the ones who are opening this way to them. I wish we could help them on this path with this and other projects. Mr Kavtičnik reminded me of the children's Parliament, and I am pleased that we will be hosting 40 representatives of the Ombudsman tomorrow, so children of different ages and talking to them and thus opening the way for them to the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. No amendments were tabled to the proposal for a recommendation. We will decide on the proposal in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, Thursday, 23 May 2013, in the framework of the votes. Representatives of the Government to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak and the Ombudsman of Human Rights of Ms Vladi Nussdorfer, together with the co-worker, thank you for your cooperation. Of course, there are also fellow Members and Members of Parliament. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is the defence proposal for a law on the abolition of the consequences of the abolition of the second, third and fourth paragraphs 143. Member of the Public Finance Balance Act, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Madam Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! With the adoption of a technical law that is deemed to be against the ZUJF, the Government implements a decision of the Constitutional Court, which, on 14 March of this year, repealed the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 143 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance. To beneficiaries who receive pensions under special conditions, Article 143 of the Savings Act has in an unconstitutional, disproportionate way reduced pensions, the most problematic, which is evident from the Constitutional Court’s decision, but that this category, which is entitled to a pension under special conditions, has dealt with the same category in an unequal manner and has triggered a number of ideological differences and problems in the way that we resolve the issue of public finances in the country. The purpose of the law is, therefore, to restore the principle of equality and equal treatment of all recipients of pensions granted under special conditions, irrespective of ideological affiliation, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. We are aware that our country is in a financially insurmountable situation and that saving will also be necessary in the future, but it is right that all citizens and citizens have the feeling that it is saving on an equal footing with all, and not in a constitutionally controversial way. The proposed law therefore repays all pensioners who, under Article 143 of the unconstitutional provision of the pension, have been paid all the outstanding amounts of pensions from the application of this contested law to a nominal amount, i.e. no interest back. In view of the financial situation in which we are, we propose that this outstanding amount be returned in two instalments, 20 % of this value in June and 80 % of the remainder in the following year. The law also provides that pensioners who, due to a reduction in their pension, had an annual allowance, i.e. those who had fallen below EUR 622 due to a reduction in the outstanding amounts of pensions, would be compensated by the annual allowance received in 2012, but mostly by the amount of the unpaid part of their pensions. The law also aligns the situation of those pensioners whose decisions issued by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance are already legally binding, with those whose decisions are not yet legally binding. So between those who complained and those who didn't. It is a fundamental principle of justice in this country, because this decision would only bring back those who complained, while those who took over and did not have the opportunity of expensive lawyers and to invest in the judicial system of their complaints would in some way be treated in an unequal manner, but we believe that it is right to treat everything equally. This is a sensitive category, and on the other hand, we know that the situation in the country is not such that we can pay everyone back everything and talk about interest. We think that this is a solution, of course not everyone will ever agree with it, but I think it is based on the principle of justice. We also wanted to put in place the simplest possible procedure for returning these pensions, but it was subsequently shown that this law against the ZUJF would also need to be further aligned with the provisions of the Income Act, so we support the amendment tabled by the coalition groups and is needed in order to ensure equal tax treatment of all beneficiaries under this law. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u56	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, as a parent, considered the proposal for a bill to remedy the consequences of the repeal of Article 143, paragraph 2, third and fourth, of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, submitted by the Government to the Assembly by means of a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a proposal for a law by means of an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis and the Committee therefore considered it on the basis of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service as well as representatives of the SPIZ participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made specific comments to Articles 2, 3 and 4. The amendments were not tabled within the time limit and two proposals were proposed for amendments to the Committee, which were adopted by the Committee as its amendment. Madam Minister briefly presented the bill. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that this was a specific provision submitted by the Law, which sought to ensure that the consequences of interference in the pensions of certain categories of pensioners for which the Constitutional Court had found that they were not in conformity with the Constitution. He pointed out that it is important that the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance is actively involved in the debate, since the very institution is certainly the most responsible for the implementation of the law itself. There was no debate, the Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues! The laws such as the ZUJF bring unrest and intolerance into our society, I hope. I even said that such a law means some kind of moral gambling with people. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia establishes the duty to respect the principle of equality, which, of course, requires equal treatment and prohibits discrimination, which should be subject to legal norms and sanctions. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. In the past, there have been too many cases where they deliberately bypassed warnings of the possible unconstitutionality of the proposed legal solutions, which the Government has subsequently confirmed to a large extent by the government coalition or the National Assembly. When the constitution is deliberately violated, we are talking about grading the constitution, and it has, you want or you don't want, an extraordinary psychological effect on society. There are no more rules, all is permitted, nothing is sacred. These points lose confidence and faith in the country, justice and security. The previous government coalition is 11. 5. 2012 adopted by ZUJF. Under the measure relating to the reduction of pensions, which in part or in full constitute the State budget obligation, Article ZUJF reduced pensions to certain groups of pensioners for whom the Republic of Slovenia provided direct funding from the State budget under Article 232, paragraph 1, of Article 232 of the ZPIZ-1. In the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 143, the ZUJF provided for the reduction of pensions, such as those involved in the national liberation war, war veterans, former military insurers, beneficiaries of a higher amount under the law on the correction of wrongs, exceptional pensions and so on. 26 thousand 300 were such pensioners. I will not go down at this point for reasons why such selective reduction of pensions, but it all suggests that there was also some sort of ideological struggle behind it. But I'm not gonna talk about it today. We have made it very clear on several occasions, within the framework of the parliamentary group, that we are opposed to such action. We have tried three times with our own bill to correct the error, I say the mistake made by the previous government, but unfortunately we have not received sufficient support because we were then like the opposition party in the minority. Then it happened that the Ombudsman applied to several thousand applications to the affected beneficiaries to submit an application to the Constitutional Court following the assessment of this law. The Constitutional Court has decided that the ZUJF is indeed in conflict with the Constitution in this respect. And what is before us today is an amendment to this unconstitutional law. Although the Constitutional Court’s decision does not require a specific law, since the Constitutional Court’s decision itself annulled the contested articles of the law, or the three paragraphs of Article 143 in question, but, as the Minister has also said, the government coalition has decided that it is right to correct the error or injustice that has been committed to those who do not have legal decisions. Those who have not lodged a complaint under paragraph 143 above. It is some kind of technical law that, as it is said, corrects injustice for all beneficiaries. You'll get pensions paid in two parts, it's supposed to be back. Part one in July and part two in the coming year. To cancel out because I believe that we have practically all said about this marriage together so much that we don't even have to talk anymore. I just hope that in the future this kind of work, this state council will no longer approve. Finally, perhaps a word or two about political responsibility. You know, it's a responsibility for the results of a fair operation and the implementation of a policy. While some who are most responsible for such unconstitutional work come before the National Assembly and say, "Good morning," I hope, even though I am not directly responsible for the contested law, to apologize to citizens and citizens. Apologize for adopting an unconstitutional law and hurting them twice. I hope, as it is said, that a new government coalition of such laws will not support it. In Positive Slovenia we absolutely support this law and we will also support the amendment that is proposed because it corrects, as said, injustices.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u60	Nicely greeted, again. Your Honor! We are moving on to the final act of remedying the consequences of the unfair article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act, which has taken away some pensioners under the specific conditions of their pension. By means of the law to remedy the consequences of repealing Article 143, paragraph 2, paragraph 3, and Article 143, paragraph 4, of the ZUJF, we shall reimburse the withdrawn parts of the pensions within the period from the entry into force of this Article of the Act until the application of the Constitutional Court decision repealing the said Article of the Act. At the time of the adoption of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, we have already warned that the arguments for a selective approach to the reduction of pensions are not justified and therefore the reduction of pensions is discriminatory and also unconstitutional. We have reminded the proposer of the consequences of making such a decision, but he acted on principle: if it succeeds, it will succeed if it fails. Following the entry into force of the ZUJF, we have made three amendments to the legislative procedure, which would eliminate this unjustified inequality. In the middle of the third amendment, the Constitutional Court adopted a decision repealing the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 143 in question. The Constitutional Court has therefore found what we have been saying all the time that this article of the law is unconstitutional. In its decision, the Constitutional Court instructs the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance to issue new decisions to all those who have been reduced their pensions and to determine with them the same amount of pensions as before the reduction. At the same time, the Constitutional Court shall leave a decision to the legislator whether to make provision for the reimbursement of the underpayment of pensions, i.e. for a period from the entry into force of the NUJF until the repeal of Article 143 in question. The Government, and we support its intentions, has decided, in order to avoid uneven regulation of reimbursements, to grant a uniform way of payment and a right to all those affected, both to those who have lodged an appeal against the decision to reduce pensions and to those who have not done so. Due to the public financial situation, a solution was drawn up in the dialogue with the target groups concerned, with which some of the differences are paid this year and the second, most of them in 2014, when the financial situation of the country is more stable. Social Democrats, as we say, welcome such a solution, so we will support the law, and we will also support the amendment that regulates the reimbursement of contributions in a way that will not affect the recipients significantly more than the other categories of taxpayers for income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Minister with Fellow, Colleague and Colleagues! This year, since the adoption of the so-called ZUJF, a huge amount of time has been spent on discussions, almost everything has already been said, both by Member groups, beneficiaries and the general public, and not least by the Constitutional Court, so the position of the Civil Gazette will be brief and clear. Members and Members of the National Gazette will support the proposal for an end to the consequences of the repeal of Article 143, paragraph 2, paragraph 3, and Article 143, paragraph 4, of the ZUJF, as well as the amendment tabled by the coalition. This is a technical law resulting from a decision of the Constitutional Court which aims to eliminate the unconstitutional and discriminatory treatment of pension recipients under Articles 232 and 161 of the ZPIZ-2. We now have in black that, despite the tight financial situation in Slovenia, measures and solutions that do not respect human dignity are not acceptable, which are incompatible with the principle of the social state, the principle of equality and proportionality. Despite all the efforts made by the Civil Code to balance public finances and gradually reduce public deficits both in previous and current coalitions, respect for the principles of fairness, balance, confidence in the institutions of the State and equal treatment before the law is paramount. That is why, as we say, we support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you again very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Madam Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The law before us will ensure the elimination of the consequences of disproportionate interference in pensions on a permanent basis, which are partially or fully financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The right to a pension under Article 232 of the ZPIZ-1 and Article 161 of the ZPIZ-2 will be reinstated for all beneficiaries on the basis of equal treatment. This is certainly difficult to oppose, but how this solution affects the state budget, of course, is another story. It is therefore a good 19,000 pension beneficiaries whose payments are provided by the State from the State budget, including, for example, the pensions of members of the National Liberation War, war veterans, former JLA military insurers, beneficiaries of a higher amount under the Law on the Correction of Blame and Exceptional Pensions. The proposal for a law will take into account the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination in the recognition or assessment of pension and disability benefits under specific conditions. The law therefore regulates the way and the amount of the reimbursement of unpaid portions of pensions for all beneficiaries, whether or not their proceedings have already been completed. As a reason for the urgent procedure, the Government cites the first paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely that the law should be necessary to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State, which we understand in our Group in the sense of abolishing the constitutionality established by the Constitutional Court. In addition to eliminating or preventing the damage suffered by the above-mentioned beneficiaries of certain pensions financed from the budget, the law will provide for the suspension of payments or payments in two instalments, since the budget does not provide for the necessary funds to recover the funds. Your Honor! However, I must also draw attention to this law to a large group of people, about 17,000 of whom, just as mentioned earlier under Article 59 of the PES, were receiving from the budget of modest EUR 188 of the state pension, which was simply abolished in 2010 by the adoption of the new social legislation. Although we managed with the amendment to the new pension law ZPIZ-2 later to add the provision at least for the recipients or beneficiaries at the time, the pension law at the referendum fell and therefore the abolition of state pensions entered into force with 1. 1. 2012. Here, too, we would like to see the conclusion of a criminal decision. In short, in the SLS Group, we will support the proposal for a law because it is a matter of implementing a constitutional decision, but we expect the Ministry to propose, at least when amending the social legislation announced, a correction of criminal regulations for former recipients of state pensions, which many now live in, because those modest means represent a survival plant for them and cannot afford even the most necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u66	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Good-bye to all of you again! In order to remedy the unconstitutionality of the Public Finance Balance Act, Article 143, paragraph 2, paragraph 3, and Article 143, paragraph 3, the Government has drawn up a so-called technical law that will implement the repeal of those paragraphs at the implementing level. The Constitutional Court has also established a means of enforcing its decision by ordering the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance to issue new decisions to all pensioners to whom the pension has been reduced by the ZUJF. When the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions of the law itself, it was based on the principle of equality. Any selection and unequal treatment within a particular group, in which case pensioners who do not have the basis for paid contributions and whose payment is provided by the State budget, shall be inadmissible. We therefore agree with and welcome the Government's proposal in the DeSUS Group, because the law treats all pension recipients who have been harmonised under the repealed provisions of the ZUJF in the same way as the beneficiaries who have applied legal remedies against the pension reduction decision and the beneficiaries who have not applied such remedies and their decisions have become legally binding. If there were a division between these two groups of pensioners, there would be again unconstitutionality, which, of course, must not be allowed in any way. PPIZ is already implementing the Constitutional Court decision. April pensions have already been paid as if the ZUJF had never been. Now the next step is needed, restoring the difference to full pension back, until the entry into force of the ZUJF. This is also provided for in this law gradually, 20% in this year and the remainder in the coming year. Approximately €23 million will be redeployed under the already adopted budgets for this year and next year. Of course, the DeSUS Group is committed to all support for this law, while at the same time we welcome the patience of the affected pensioners, because when we were looking for solutions to how to pay the wrongs, they were prepared to return the entire difference in terms of the state of government in the country for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we respect the autonomy of the judiciary, and we especially recognise the authority of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia, even when we are not most satisfied with their decisions. This is precisely why the proposal for a law regulating the reimbursement of the difference between pensions paid and the amount of pensions paid prior to the adoption of the ZUJF will be supported by all beneficiaries under Article 143 of the ZUJF. At the same time, we place the government at heart, and the burden of the crisis must be fairly divided among all social groups, according to Nova Slovenije. We have been contributing families, public servants and officials since the middle of last year to the resolution of the crisis, and we are taking on an additional burden by this law. While high-retirement pensioners, in particular those whose pensions are not based on contributions paid, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the now proposed technical law to remedy the consequences of the repeal of Article 143, paragraph 2, paragraph 3, and Article 143, paragraph 4, do not contribute equally to the resolution of the crisis. In fact, they contribute nothing compared to the overburdened active generation, especially the middle class. In New Slovenia, we simply need to mention another injustice that will result from this reimbursement of the pensions mentioned above, the pensioners will receive all the money back. And who's going to return the money to those recipients of state pensions who were taken from them in 2012? And these are mainly powerless people who suffer quietly, do not shout in the streets and the media, and are not interesting to the general public. This does not seem fair to us, and in New Slovenia we expect the Government to immediately prepare marriage solutions whereby pensioners with high pensions, which are largely not based on paid contributions, will have their share in solving the crisis. In particular, it makes sense to cut into high pensions, on a progressive scale, in the same way as for intervention in the salaries of public servants and officials. The Constitutional Court also referred to such a solution as constitutionally acceptable. However, austerity measures must not in any way fall into the social security of those pensioners who receive pensions up to the level of the poverty threshold, up to €600 per month. In Novi Slovenija we expect proposals from the Government on how high-retirement pensioners will assume their share of the burden of solving the crisis in the country. The basic principles of intergenerational co-existence expect and require them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u69	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendments tabled by the members of the positive Slovenia Group, the Social Democrats, the Civil Gazette, the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? He does. So I'm asking you to apply for a hearing. Six panellists have been reported. The first is Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support the amendment. Probably doesn't have to talk about the causes long and wide enough, because it eliminates something that I might not call a mistake. A mistake is a nice word. If I connect with the previous debate, here we have talked about children's advocates and adults are different from them by treating the view, we say what we do, we make the view responsible. Children act on the principle of experiment – error. As the chairman of the committee said before, I do not refer to it as a mistake, but as an attempt that can or cannot go. So if I turn in a one-way street and I see that I'm in one-way, I'm gonna stop them going back, we're not gonna keep going. And our warnings have gone in this direction of discrimination and anti-constitution, these are two key issues. Once again, it wasn't a mistake, it would be hard to find a word to define what it was. I think the debaters have said something in their presentations, but it is high time that whatever this is, corrects, so I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u72	Let me say first that I will support this amendment, but I do not want to say that this decision of the Constitutional Court was what we expected. To put it another way, it is true that such things are a reminder to all of us because it is so easy to push the keys, even though we have been warned that there is a high probability that such a measure or regulation is introduced in a night session, then at a May session at the ZUJF, that it is not only discriminatory but unconstitutional. This means that those of you who decided at the time to vote in favour of this famous 143rd article, in fact, as my predecessor has already said, did so on purpose. This means, of course, that we have deliberately violated human rights as defined in articles 14, 18 of the Constitutional Law, which was adopted as an annex to our Constitution at the time of independence. This constitutional law, by the way, was also a condition for the recognition of other countries around the world by the new country at that time, protecting some groups of people who would be able to believe that they could ever be violated by their human rights in the future. I'm afraid that's what happened. Therefore, I do not want to discuss this enough in person, but I repeat once again: when we have before us a proposal for a law in which human rights can be violated – and this has not happened for the first time in this House – let us have a real shaking hand before we put pressure on the keys, regardless of the various arrangements and conversations. Last but not least, if we are completely honest, we, when we accepted – and I am not saying that you did not have good intentions at the time, but that you will somehow align these public finances with the possibilities, but they cannot be public finances over human rights. I think there's a commitment here, and there's a rule for everyone. This is how we borrowed money from these pensioners, borrowed it, and still borrowed it, because the situation is that we cannot return it immediately, but we will not return it most of it until next year. That is why I have already said on the committee itself, even though I have constantly opposed this provision, that I apologize to all those who have been harmed, and at the same time I ask them to understand that we cannot do this immediately. So you don't get a refund right away in one package. And what's actually the worst. All the thanks we have made with the ZUJF and so on under such provisions, this is now the second provision of the Constitutional Court, which degrades us from the savings we have so vehemently advocated and boasted with them in the adoption of the ZUJF. These are skeletons falling out of the closet, and the only question is when will any of them fall? That is why I once again appeal to all conscious citizens and, in particular, to parliamentarians to stop this practice in the future. I would like to point out that human rights were once again the basis on which this country was built. That's why we respect them!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u74	Your Honor! The adoption of this law was not the reason for saving, it is necessary to know. The reason was lustration, and that's what I said back then. That's when you explained to us that those I was reducing their pensions weren't paying into the pension fund. Let me read who they are: participants in the national liberation struggle, Spanish wars, national heroes, partisan monuments, internationalists, refugees, internees, retired under the Law on the Rights of Military Insurance and Disabled Insurance, employees of internal affairs bodies, prison institutions, pension beneficiaries to take into account the period of active military service in the former JLA, beneficiaries to a higher amount under the Law on the correction of wrongs, administratively retired under the Law on Internal Affairs, forcibly mobilised, performers of extraordinary pensions and so on. Back then, I said how someone who was interned in Dachau could make a pension fund. How could you? So you can't deny that it wasn't meant to be completely different, not saving. This cut for the legitimate burden of the state budget that is now happening to us is, of course, the contribution of the previous government to the poor fiscal situation in the country. Because if we didn't do these machinations, we'd have this alignment fixed by now. That's why I'm protesting, and it's not fair that some of you today call them street screamers. They're not screamers. These are people who are worthy of respect, so I will support the amendment and this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In considering this bill and the amendment, I would like to point out that, just as we will do with this law, we are obliged to correct the injustice that has taken place in the abolition of a state pension for more than 15,000 recipients. With the introduction of new social legislation, legal recipients are 1. 1. 2012 lost a legitimate right to a modest EUR 188 of their own income at an age when they are no longer able to work. This right was exercised under Article 59 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 1, which is the legal right of those pensioners who are reimbursed part of a reduced pension by this law. It is very painful and unfair for me and the Members of the Slovenian People's Party to decide on the return of pensions, which will then reach the amount of between 622 and even over EUR 450, and without any bad news you voted to abolish EUR 188 of state pension, which was the only source of livelihood for a large majority of the 17,000 beneficiaries since then. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members, I ask you whether we will be able to achieve this kind of honesty and correct this unfair abolition of state pensions when changing social legislation. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we ask whether these citizens have no right to the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination, which is referred to by the Government and the Ministry as the fundamental principle and purpose of the law before us today, namely the law on the elimination of the consequences of the repeal of the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 143 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance. I ask you whether these former legitimate beneficiaries do not deserve an apology, as some have said to these 26,000 beneficiaries for whom we are correcting the law today. We therefore rightly expect that at least the former recipients still alive should be corrected because I am sure that the abolition of the state pension was precisely for the unequal treatment of pension recipients. The then minister claimed that everyone who needed help would certainly receive social assistance. In these years, since the implementation of the new social legislation, we have received a number of evidence of the opposite. We still receive letters from those who have been affected who have been deprived of those modest means and who live on the brink of survival. That is why, at the time of the consideration of this law, Madam Minister, I call on you to include in the review and preparation of the necessary corrections to the social legislation that is being prepared, as we know, the correction of the criminal provision and to correct the injustice to all the then living beneficiaries of the state pension which they received under Article 59 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We will not oppose the amendment in the Slovenian People's Party, as all pensioners need to be given attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Well-welcome Madam Minister with co-worker and, of course, Members and Members of Parliament! Article 143 of the ZUJF is contrary to the Constitution, the Constitutional Court found. If you remember, when this law was passed in the National Assembly, I said that I also do not agree as a lawyer that the legislative body adopts laws that are not in conformity with the Constitution or that are contrary to the Constitution. At that time, it was said that if so, the Constitutional Court would say so. Once again, I think it is important that when we adopt laws, we decide on this or adopt laws that are consistent with the Constitution. I don't think we have the right to impose additional tasks on the Constitutional Court, since we already know in advance that something is wrong. So, once again, I am pleased that the Constitutional Court has found that this law is unconstitutional in article 143 and has ordered that errors be corrected. Because with ZUJF, in particular Article 143, we treated people discriminatoryly. We've got some chandeliers. Mr Brulc listed all these groups in his implementation a little earlier, so I will leave this part of my discussion. I would also like to say this or repeat that we have violated the human rights guaranteed to citizens by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by this law. We have to apologize to all these people. I apologize to everyone today, although, as I said, I did not support this law at the time. I will support the law and the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In opening, let me say that I will support an amendment that ensures equal tax treatment for all beneficiaries under the income law, and this has somehow escaped our primary consideration on the committee. Furthermore, I would say that there is nothing wrong with those who are in the power responsible for looking at public finances to balance them, and so on, seeking solutions that are legally burdening individual categories of people. For if the solution that you used in the selected group of beneficiaries were applied to the whole group of pensioners, it would not be unconstitutional. It was unconstitutional because you specified yourself to a particular group and this group, hand-to-heart, had a strong ideological omen — those you did not like. It is constantly repeated in this Chamber that it is for beneficiaries who have not earned their pensions. Have not journalists told you on several occasions why these different 45 groups in this group of pensioners are under special conditions? There are different reasons for this, but these people have earned their pension. They paid contributions, once in other republics, on the second occasion they were paid under specific conditions laid down by the State for reasons that they had otherwise contributed to that country, and so on. In every way, however, they contributed to the cash registers, and that is why their pension is theirs. Therefore, if you are calling for the burden on pensioners to continue contributing to greater burdens, you should first tell you that pensioners are already contributing, because their pensions are not valorising and the richest are not entitled to receive an allowance for recreation. Don’t say they don’t contribute — they contribute! But if we are to consider any solution to the burden of pensioners receiving higher pensions, then we need to think about all pensioners, otherwise we will be in an unconstitutional position again. Second thing. This joke wasn't cheap. According to the ZPIZ assessment, this manoeuvre, this error, this unconstitutionality of the millions of euros spent. Don't you think we could use them for other things?Oh, my God! Not to mention the moral damage that we have done to these people has affected their human dignity. I think that's what's worst. Even though I, from the first second forward, from that night session forward, have endeavoured not to accept this, I deeply apologize for all the suffering we have caused. The attack is the best defense. Yes, colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party, state pensions were introduced by the Rop reform and Svetlik's pension reform anticipated that they would be maintained. Is it the coalition's fault that the pension law fell? And if you thought this was so wrong, why didn't you scream as loudly as you are today when implementing the ZPIZ-2 prepared by Minister Vizjak?Oh, my God! There you had every opportunity to fix it if that was your purpose. I would warn, however, that in the case of state pensions, however empathetic they may be treated, they are pensioners who have not paid a tolar or a euro in their pension allowance! This is a big difference compared to the pensioners we are dealing with today. In short, like I said, when you step on your tail, you squeal. Come on, let's finish this saga, this drama, let's have an ashtray and commit ourselves to never again adopting solutions that are unconstitutional in this House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see that it is a desire to discuss, so I am opening up applications for debate, of course, within the time available for the groups of Members. We have three reported discussers. The first one has the word, Mr Jakob the Presecnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I've been in this house a long time, I've never yelled loudly at anyone. So the colleague in front of me, if this comment was intended for me, then it did not go in the right direction regarding state pensions, but – yes, you said that the state pension had returned Svetlik's pension reform. That is true, because I have also stressed this in the opinion of the Group of Members. Yes, that reform; but, of course, at our request, because it was a basic condition for the parliamentary group to support the then pension law. This was our condition to support the pension law if the state pension is returned, which was taken not in the pension reform, but in the law on social security benefits, it is roughly such an address, which was adopted about a year earlier. I also stressed, I have repeatedly pointed out that unfortunately that pension reform has fallen to the referendum. The evidence fell why we did not get an explanation in the second pension reform, we received information that, given that this withdrawal of the state pension had already been established, that it could not be recovered at this time. [[...]] That's what we were given to explain. In the first case, however, in the case of the first pension reform, it was adopted at the time or then rejected at the time of the non-implementation of the social security benefits law at that time. But look! I am firmly convinced that if anyone were to be found, but in this case it is the people who are on this lower edge, who are extremely difficult to flick, who close the month-to-month, that there is obviously no one who would raise any constitutional issue, a constitutional dispute. I am convinced that this would have been done if someone had triggered this problem in the Constitutional Court to treat it in the same way or in the same way as today we are dealing with this so-called technical law. This is the problem, and in this is the pain of these people, who also write desperate letters, not even calling, but every so long of course Members, and certainly not just us, we receive letters in some sadness, some powerlessness. There is something else; all these people certainly, like all the older people, have, we have some real estate that in themselves do not give anything, and all these people are afraid to ask for social assistance because they are simply afraid that the little property, the little property, some land, let me say, some little meadow, will be taken away from their offspring when they die themselves and when they will no longer benefit from any social assistance. Of course, that's the problem. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u83	Mr President, if you would kindly define yourself under this amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u84	I don't have any data on how many of these people there are. [[...]] As for the amendment – thank you very much for the warning, I was a little carried away – but as for the amendment, I will not oppose it, because it also regulates the problems surrounding the income. But you can see that you have truly taken care of every cent of the amendments, for every euro that could be deprived — and I will go back; for the state pension, we care little about that. However, I apologize to those who did not participate in the debate and adoption of the Social Security Benefits Act at the time, because this was the case in the previous mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The text was wanted by Minister Anja Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! First of all, I would say that I am pleased that there is no longer opposition in this Chamber because of the awareness that in some way things that are found to be unconstitutional need to be resolved. However, I would really not like to discuss the situation in which this country is, in a way that one category of people up to another category of people, in terms of someone having a higher pension, there are no important reasons why there is a higher pension, and in fact they are getting something at the expense of those who have less. I think that in a situation in this country, in a state in which this country is no longer able to afford it because it is only together — not by placing one category against the other — that we can make this exit and give people the feeling that everyone will contribute in accordance with some principle of righteousness. Of course, there are some debates about ideological reasons, such or otherwise – because I am not saying that the legislator, when he adopted it, did so on purpose, but actually all the people concerned, this feeling and this feeling cannot lead this country to any exit from the crisis. However, I am glad that this debate is not even worse today. It could be, it is not, and I hope that it will be, even in the future, when we discuss such things so that we can draw closer to each other and not separate people, because this country — only two million of us — simply cannot get out of the crisis. However, as regards state pensions, I would like to say that I would not want this category to be compared to those eligible for a state pension. Why not? Because, in fact, state pensions were not about abolishing that right. It was a matter of transferring this right to social law and data show that at 31. 12. In 2011, there were 14 thousand 172 beneficiaries of the state pension. This right has been waived by 2 000 156 users, while on Day 10. 5. According to social legislation, between these 14 thousand received 9 thousand 855 state aid, 142 outstanding financial social assistance and 785 protection aid. Therefore, it was a matter of shifting their right to another law and, above all, it is important that those who received a state pension have been treated in the same way. The constitutional dispute, as stated by the Constitutional Court, is in particular that the recipients have been treated differently under specific conditions, even though their situation is the same. Because when you accepted ZUJF and 143 paragraphs, you said that some categories are exempt from this reduction; and this is the key to the problem. It's not a problem of reduction, the problem is that you treat everything the same way. However, we cannot compare those who had the right to a state pension with those who were deprived of it in Article 143. This certainly does not mean that when we correct social legislation, we will not look at what clearly shows that the elderly are in a worse situation. That was not the purpose and there will be some changes. Of course, I expect you to support these changes in the National Assembly. Not at all, for then people feel, those who have lost perhaps the right to a state pension feel as if they are now contributing to those who will receive it. This is just a way of separating people, and I don't think there's really a time when we can afford this kind of action if we want to get out of the crisis. But I welcome all the support of the law and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I support the amendment governing income in this field or related to the modification of Article 143 of the ZUJF. At the same time, let me say that I am also very pleased and happy to support the other amendments and the whole law, the modification of Article 143, because I am convinced that this will eliminate the injustice that has been done to all those 12 thousand who receive a pension under another criterion; the criterion that has been recognised in this country as a valid criterion for this pension. Of course, no saving excuses human rights violations and the beating of human dignity. When we are discussing this article or this law and correcting injustices, I want to break away from it and dismiss the fact that it has been conditioned by some ideologies. It is very difficult, because I am a partisan son and, last but not least, a veteran of the status of 1991, but I think that the planner and the proponent of this article or this law then intervened very recklessly and in the desire to help save as quickly as possible. So I completely cleared it up. I have a special sentiment for the people who have given much for this country, for this our country; a particular sentiment, special respect and when the law of the ZUJF and 143 was passed, I was deeply, deeply sorry and difficult. They have been wronged, they have been deprived of rights that have been acquired and recognised, and I am now so pleased to support the amendment of Article 143. It would probably be right, as colleague Barbara has already said today, that in this act, when we correct the injustices and correct also Article 143, which is analogous and consequently also linked to the decision of the Constitutional Court, it would be right to make an apology. Apologize to all those who have been wronged, and a wound has been inflicted upon them. This wound will heal, but this scar will remain, and this scar will always be a reminder of some foolish act of the proponent, the government of the then, not least, the National Assembly. I would like to see as few wounds as possible in the future as possible, even if they are healed, that there are as few scars as possible that cast a bad light on foolish conduct as possible, either to the governments or to the National Assembly. Therefore, it is my great joy and satisfaction to at least correct this injustice that has been done in such a way that it will be satisfied with all those who have been deprived. In two parts, but in the end, the result will be the one we want. So, I support these amendments, the other amendments and the whole amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister with a co-worker, a nice greeting to both Members and Members of Parliament! Some unsuccessful attempts to regulate Article 143 of the Law and to treat the pension unequally are being completed. If she were cynical, I would say that the former government, which was so good and never makes mistakes, then what she did in Article 143, did not do ignorantly and unwittingly, but thoughtfully, according to her judgment, as she intended. Not the current coalition and not the current government, but the Constitutional Court has said that the same situations must be treated equally. However, as for the recurring evidence of the state pension, I do not know how many times, but then I also expect Mr Ribič to apologize. For example, at the time, it was also felt that pensions that were covered in paid contributions should be paid in a pension or in a pension allowance. At the request of the People's Party, the state pension was included in the Pension and Health Insurance Act. If we wanted to, and if we had the same understanding of our previous coalition, we would have made such a provision in the SPIZ-2, but you didn't. There's only so much about the readings. I, Mr. Ribič, would understand your findings if I ever made such an observation to my former coalition. Here again: the basis was that the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds considered the former State pension to be a social transfer, which could be granted under the same conditions. In order to take account of the income per family member and to take into account the real estate. Therefore, it was the wish of the Slovenian People's Party to re-enter pension legislation from that law. I will support the amendment, I am pleased that we are finally regulating this and that the school should be for every legislator not to joke about equality before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We're done applying for a debate. I see there's still interest in the debate. Mr Tanko has raised his hand or I'm opening an application for debate. Four panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr. Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. My intention to discuss these matters was not to cause any controversy here or to give to one another who was to blame or not to blame. When we fought for a state pension and we did it at the time, we also made provision for this pension to remain in some way when this law was adopted. That is why we supported the marriage at that time. Then the referendum ended this marriage, and then, I'd say, under a string of bad circumstances, this state pension is no longer being paid. This is all I wanted to point out today, and I didn't want to encourage anyone here to treat me or raise my voice. That is why, when this law is being considered, Madam Minister, I call on you to include, as we know, the correction of the criminal provision for the correction of the injustices of all the then living beneficiaries of the state pension when reviewing and preparing urgent corrections to social legislation. I just wanted to warn you that this category would not be forgotten. After all, we will not achieve anything if we insist so horribly on our own side. I'm spilling my ashes and I'm also sorry that some people in this national council don't get together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next debater, Mr Borut Ambrožič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Let me begin with the sentence that any injustice is, no matter whether it comes from the left or the right, but from the wrong. I myself am not so educated on the content that debaters, the last respected colleague, Mr Ribič, have been talking about today. So, it is aware of this issue, and in any case, obviously in our social space there is, as there was in some vacuum, which we want to turn back into a good situation by today's amendment to the law and the proposed amendments, which I both support. For, as only the Constitutional Court has decided, it has been found that there has been an unconstitutional intervention or injustice that has occurred to the exact category of pensioners who, in the meantime, have also been addressing me in despair why they have been discriminated against. This issue and today's debate also raises a very pressing issue of retroactivity, or the use of retroactivity back, with which I have met several times in my undergraduate education, when professors have explained to us that it is basically used only for serious crimes or crimes against humanity. Therefore, in practice, when I am sitting alone in this temple of democracy, it is somehow not logical for me that the legislator wants to serve, as well as other levels – with this I associate little in the academic sphere – procedures or measures that retroactively affect the rights of someone to return. Therefore, my public call, let us be careful to apply such rules in the future. As it is said, I support the proposed amendment and the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary! That the correction of a constitutional decision is not simple, it also shows the law that the Government has drawn up — four substantive articles, two corrected in the procedure and another amendment to one of the articles. If you are so sure that they are so good, then these five articles should come to the National Assembly for recovery on the basis of a constitutional decision, practically without error. And that didn't happen. Another time. Here many are now reminding you of the consequences of the repeal of this Article. You know, not long ago you submitted this to the Constitutional Court or your opposition to the Slovenian State Holding Act and to a bad bank was given. As a result, the adoption procedure has been delayed for several months and I am interested in whether you have calculated the loss, the consequences of this decision, which was then unsuccessful in the Constitutional Court. You didn't! So, you too, fellow Members of the current coalition, must at some point divest yourself with the ashes and take responsibility for some decision as well. As far as the law so-called ZUJF is concerned, it's probably not that bad. If you have sent a report to Brussels, and this is one of the basic data you have written there, what are the effects of savings under this law. The President of the Government presented the effects of this law to the opposition, even for 2014. If this solution is so bad, then I would expect not only to remedy it because of the decision of the Constitutional Court, but the whole law. You didn't do it again! So if you're talking about what's good and what's bad about some system, some package, then you're only dealing with an ad and leave everything else. What is left is sold to the European Union as a fundamental proof that something in the field of savings and savings is being done in this country. If you are so righteous, then yesterday you should have shaken your hand when you voted to raise the RTV contribution, but no one could explain why and why so much. When you raised the value added tax, which was raised for food, which is the fundamental good of each family, and especially those with low incomes, for more than the higher tax rate. For your diet, you raised VAT by one percentage point, which means for exports to 9.5 almost 12% and you raised the ceiling by 1%, which means a 10% increase. Then why have you so disproportionately burdened those who have the least? I don't get it either, let's say why is the guardian of human rights, who was when it was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u97	Mr. Tanko, we're talking about the amendment and please focus on the amendment and the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u98	Of course, I am talking about what Mrs Črnak said and what Mrs Minister said, about nothing else. In view of the fact that it had previously intervened in State pensions, I wonder why, for example, the Ombudsman, who was the same as in this case, did not appeal to the Constitutional Court. There it went — and at the time was the Secretary of State — to intervene in rights, I do not know, Mr Presečnik said 17,000 people, to whom it was practically the only source. And there was no appeal to the Constitutional Court. In this particular case, when it intervened, for example, into the rights of those who are above a certain level, this was triggered immediately and not only from one place. Nor is the claim made by Mrs Črnak Meglič that only those who paid in the pension register were here. They are also in this category and there are several hundred of them who have not paid into the pension register but have been granted certain rights on the basis of decorations or other decisions. Even in this particular case, it is not the same treatment of citizens. Madam former Secretary of State, the current Minister, will recall that, in your previous mandate or in the Pahor government, you have passed the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. There you proposed a solution that you could not receive a scholarship and a child supplement at the same time. One and the other, more or less, is linked only to the category of social beneficiaries, social transfer, and this is linked to the social state. If he was a student, he only got a scholarship, but if he was a student, all he got was a kid's allowance. At that time, no one was rocked by a deadline, no one, not in the Social Democrats, nor Mrs Črnak Meglič, nor others, who were in that coalition at the time, but who only intervened in rights, I would say, social transfers, that is to say beneficiaries who are at the bottom of society and are therefore entitled to certain allowances or aid. That seems to me like a perfect hoax, and no one apologized. The reforms proposed by the previous government, which was then the State Secretary in this area, were confined exclusively to the social state, exclusively! Not a single law has been proposed that would affect the rights of those who are over social transfers, not one. And that's what you were selling at the time under the idea of a fair distribution of the burden of overcoming the crisis. Take a look at your magnetograms, your discussions by Mr Frangež, Mrs Črnak Meglič, Mr former Minister, Mrs current Minister and so on. It's like a fair burden distribution. That's not true. I think this is how to approach problems when certain things are disproportionately distributed by, I'll tell Gauss society, it's unfair, you don't do that. You intervened in that part that's at the bottom of the Gaussian curve, that's what those who are, I'd say, below average. You have not proposed one measure, my fellow Members, for us when we intervene in other rights, is to say those who are on certain matters. I think it must be said that this work is largely about demagogism and that it is a lot of other things. The fact that you then eliminated 17,000 state pensions is said to be rural insurers was probably also a political measure. Was it a substantive, technical question, was it a political action? It was impossible to defend people who had lost everything in mountain farms without the possibility of any commercial activity and so on to give them weak social support in the form of state pensions. There was no stopping it. But if they got something through a social transfer, they'd get it. Why, though, is it not for those who are decorated after certain acts? You don't pay, it doesn't go into property! Social, let's say the people in the countryside, and this goes automatically into the property. I think in these things, when you're dealing with certain things, I would expect that if you're social, if you think you're social, that you're just. But given how I know how you've been acting, and I've been following this for a long time, social is just an address, and justice is a long way from [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u99	Mr. Tanko, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you very much, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you. I apologize, but it was literally an accusation made by some other Members and Members and Madam Minister, and I think that this was not the right thing to do, and the debate was also about other matters. You have to understand me. Now I see that the wish for a replica is made by Dr. Andrej Črnak Maglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. First of all, I would say that this is pure deception, as Mr Tanko said, although this has nothing to do with what we are saying today. The fact is that our government has worked hard for the weakest, not to mention the law on subsidisation of working time, and so on, not to mention raising the minimum wage that you have so much to say that I am not talking about the law on compulsory employee participation in the sharing of profits, not to mention the law that restricted the salaries of directors in state companies and so on. The fact is that we have adopted social protection legislation with precise objectives and also with a warning that we are working on the basis of projections that have been made professionally and that life can show something else. And if that's the case [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, Madam Minister, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you. Otherwise, the debate is now going in a direction where we will probably start betting on one another and the other, but I would like to stress again, saying what I said before. The Constitutional Court said that a specific category of pension recipients had been covered under special conditions in this right, in the same category of persons under Article 232 in an unequal manner. The rule of law is to treat the same category in the same way. Differences can be made if they are really justified. This is the foundation of the rule of law. That's all it's about! That is why, today or at all, everyone in the National Assembly drew attention to the contentiousness of Article 143, since you finally decided not to apply to certain categories defined under Article 232 of the ZPIZ-1. That's all that's controversial. Equalising state pensions by social law or in any way misleading. Because state pensions were not taken from those who cooperated and were part of one — for example, those who may have lived in Styria — but not from those in Gorenjska. Because this is only the case with Article 143 and the decision of the Constitutional Court. It also applies to social legislation; it applies to all the same. The key to a fundamental state, the rule of law, is that the legislation is supposed to apply to all the same. I understand that there is a mistake in adopting legislation, but if you are warned by the Legal and Legislative Service that it is a constitutionally contested procedure, I think it is no longer the same, and that there is some responsibility in adopting such legislation. I know that, as Minister, I would think four times, five times, six times I don't know how many times I can defend a law that reminds me that it can be a constitutionally controversial way or intervention. And now here's the deception about things they don't actually want to move away from what you might say O. [[...]] K., we will intervene in a way that is not constitutionally controversial if we have to reduce pensions, social transfers, whatever, we will not give the feeling in the country that there is one category because one authority comes; the left – we will do so, the right – so. I think that people have to feel that whatever we do, we will do because we want to solve the fiscal situation in this country, but not because we think that some categories are more rewarded and some less deserving of having a single country today. That is all that is and unfortunately, at the time of the adoption of the ZUJF and the 143rd, people had this feeling. It's our duty to stop this. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Since time is not up, Mr. Tanko, are you applying for a debate? Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I did not first open the subject of a debate on state pensions, I did not open the first subject of conduct, the consequences of the Constitutional Court banning, canceling or rejecting something, I was a seventh debater. I suggest you have the same vat for all the debaters in the National Assembly. It doesn't matter to me whether the Minister is discussing this, which has also discussed these things exactly, or anyone else. You didn't reach out to anyone on the other side of this room except Mr. Presecnik or Fish and me. If you are already having a debate, then give it to all members of the National Assembly correctly, do not divide it into "ours and yours". "Yours" can do anything and anything -- even Mr. Chehovin has allowed himself anything -- and to "ours" who cannot even answer or object to any claim here. This is our right and our duty to say it. I ask from the outset that there is a little more respect for the members of the opposition than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, I'll take note. Although you've probably noticed that you've let yourself in, in fact, say a few thoughts that you haven't been in touch with the ZUJF. Others, too. However, by allowing the Minister to reply to Mr President and Mr Ribič, as well as to you, that she also replied in connection with the laws, such as the Social Benefits Act, which deals with state pensions or – as people write to me and say – on farm pensions according to their own words. Just as the public hears this problem, which the government has solved, it has not solved and so on. I think the Minister answered, too. I also take note of your opinion and your warning to me. Mr. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u108	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will begin with the thoughts of the famous statesman Winston Churchill. He said, "It happens that sometimes we stumble on the truth, but usually we gather quickly and move on." We're facing the truth right now, and we're moving fast. In fact, why? When we accepted the ZUJF – I was not in favour of the ZUJF and I did not vote because it seemed inadequate and unfair to me in certain parts. At that time, of course, I was given some kind of position on Janša's side; today I will not vote for this; I will probably be on the other side. I am not for either of us, nor for others, I am for the just Republic of Slovenia, which works legally and justly at the same time. In fact, two of the parties were in the previous government and are in this government. How did we in the previous government let such an inappropriate marriage go into reception? We could stop and make sure that it's appropriate if that's the point. But it was not the goal of lawfulness, nor of righteousness, but of something entirely different. It is unfair to reduce wages below EUR 900 net, so I will not vote in favour of this law. From public funds to pay wages and other benefits so that I will not say pension, because there are probably no such ones that are above the salary of the President of the State and the President of the Government, who are five, six thousand, seven thousand, eight thousand nets, is unjust. Therefore, in the context of its reform efforts, I have sent a proposal to the Government that, at the same time as the ZUJF, we should adopt a law where public sector salaries will be in range 1:7. In fact, we should make sure that people can live with dignity, and it is difficult to live with a salary below EUR 900, not to say a pension. And we are full of the mouth of how we will care for dignity and respect dignity. Not at all! By no means do we respect the dignity of people who work for salaries of EUR 500, 600, 700 and, on the other hand, we allow – and this is the greatest injustice – that wages in the public sector from public funds from taxpayers are also 7, 8, 9 thousand, even in para-state companies such as banks, or in enterprises that are majority state-owned, should not be higher than 1:5. What is the argument that the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank will pay 10,000 euros if this bank is in loss and will be recapitalised by taxpayers with a salary of 600 euros? Do you know what we're doing in this country? So it's no wonder where we are. Of course, we also knowingly lie; and we keep on lying. Today we are saying that we will pay the promotion compensation for the public sector next April. Not at all! The next year, the financial situation will be even worse, for we do nothing to have anything to do and to have something to live on. Now we're living off what we borrowed from the American market. That's a cruel truth. I cannot vote for such marriage solutions, and as I have not voted for the previous ZUJF, it seems to me to be pointless to do the same. And let me end with Einstein's famous notion that the greatest definition of madness is that you do things the same way, and you expect different results. How will the results be different if this coalition works the same as the previous one? It can't be! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u110	I'll add a few more clarifications. See, even if they wanted to, those farmers who had not been able to pay their pensions for a period of time were also entitled to state pensions. The fact that this group was segregated also indicates that when the criteria for scholarships were calculated, UKD with a higher level than with other employees was taken into account. You can check all this information in this country. At the same time or in a very similar time as state pensions were abolished, you increased the allowance for widowed persons after the insurance companies of the Yugoslav People's Army in a very similar time. Don't tell me it wasn't a political decision, it wasn't a professional decision, it wasn't a substantive decision, it was a political decision! You probably know that. You are signatories to these widowers' allowances in the National Assembly, and you are still sitting. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, but at the same time you took away the state pension from the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who were prevented from paying their pension allowance during a certain period. In short, don't read off some non-social approach or political decision to someone you're up to because it's unfair because we didn't do it. [[...]] We have gone with the behaviour and knowledge that this will be arranged in an appropriate manner and in proportion to the revenues that one can generate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your silence indicated that you had accepted Mr Tank's debate as a debate on the amendment to the ZUJF, but he was talking about things that the 143rd article had nothing in common with the amendment. And this rudeness, when it comes to reading the regulated issues of the pension or the rights of widows to the work of the pension, were citizens of Slovenia with working age in Slovenia, decided only during a certain period of their lives to enter into a life relationship with someone who was in another service that was considered SDS unacceptable. This is a gross disregard for the subject we are talking about. But the argument is that he can't handle it. Yesterday Mr. Tanko said he knew all about the RTV Act. He may not understand anything, but he doesn't know how to use it, and he's doing it today. I suggest you remind him to stick to the darkness. I'm sure you'll be hitting on me right now because you usually do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. You don't always know what I'm thinking. I'm not gonna kick your ass. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 3? You can't have a replica either. Time's up. You can't. Only the procedural proposals used by Mrs Potrata are possible here and the debate is open for those parliamentary groups that have not yet reached their deadline. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, then we shall conclude the debate on this Article. I inform you that we will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, Thursday, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 4. At the end of the day, this is to defend the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. The law was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Now all we have to do is figure out who's going to be the government's representative. Mag. Renata Zatler, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Hello! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you the amendment of the Law on State Administration, which is dictated by the amendment of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a proposal setting out certain changes in the competences of individual ministerial departments. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is no longer in the new field of culture. The Ministry of Culture will carry out tasks in the fields of culture, cultural heritage, film, media, etc. following a new proposal for the Law on State Administration. The Ministry of the Interior shall take over the public administration tasks. The Prosecutor's Office is returning to justice and the area of real estate management is being transferred by a new proposal to the Ministry of Justice. In coordination with the Ministry, further changes are being made in the development and construction of broadband networks, which move from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. A new distinction has been introduced between the powers of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment in the field of food safety and catering activities. I would like to stress in particular that this is chapter eight, which has been amended so that more effective management of e-commerce projects will be carried out on this basis and that we will also reduce costs and rationalise the business in the field of information technology. This is more effective coordination through the Ministry of Public Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. Here you are, Mr. Jerko Čehovin, to present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 11th meeting, on 9. 5. as a parent working body, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government, with a proposal for a hearing following a reduced procedure, which is followed by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 50th session of 19. 4. Also accepted. Representatives of the proposer with the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, Mrs Renato Zatler, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, and representative of the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for State regulation participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law from the perspective of it in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and from a legislative and technical point of view. It commented on Articles 1, 7, 11, 14, 18 and on the transitional provisions. The Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for State Arrangement, presented its opinion on the draft law to the Committee by the President of the Commission, Rajko Fajt. The Commission supports the proposal for a law. Comments on the draft law were also made by the information officer. The applicant took into account his comments when preparing the amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The representative of the applicant pointed out to the recital that in the proposal for a law, compliance with the Decision on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia amending the structure of the government and the regulation or other determination of the working areas of certain ministries is in accordance with the provisions of the law. As a result, there are changes at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the Ministry of Culture, which is a self-sustaining ministry; the Ministry of the Interior, which also takes over the area of public administration and local self-government; and the Ministry of Justice, which continues its work in the field of public administration. The draft law provides that the areas of development and construction of broadband networks are reunited with the area of electronic communications within the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The draft law also sets out the obligation of free transmission of data, reimbursements and other benefits from the employment ratio of public servants and officials, as well as the amendment of Chapter 8 which governs the electronic management. The state is in a situation where it is forced to seek measures to increase efficiency and reduce costs. These objectives can be achieved by means of a central strategic head of state information technology and by standardising and consolidating information technology in the state administration, which will allow for joint investment. In her presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments tabled included a summary of the comments made in the written opinion. It noted, however, that this law, as well as more and more laws, directly amends the provisions of certain other laws. This practice is not good, since it is detrimental to legal certainty, in particular to those provisions which have nothing to do with changes to the material of the provisions of the Law on State Administration, for example Article 14 amending the provisions of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia governing government services. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS Group at Articles 1, 11, 12 and 14, the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, the Group of the National Gazette and the Group of Ambassadors of DeSUS at Articles 1, 2, 6, 7, 11, 14, to Articles 18 and 19. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to Articles 1, 2, 6, 7, 11 and 14, to the new Article 17a and Article 18 and Article 19 and the SDS Group Amendment to Article 1. The Committee did not adopt the amendments tabled by the SDS Group to Articles 11, 12 and 14. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Chehovin. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. SDS Group Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u118	Your Honor! We have before us a law that would only involve less difficult changes and additions to the Law on State Administration, or less difficult to comply with the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which after the change of government, some ministries and their fields of work are new. We have no problem with this in the SDS Group. However, the law also introduced the determination of the obligation to provide free data on reimbursements and other benefits from the employment ratio of public servants and officials, as well as an amendment to Chapter 8 which regulates the electronic operation of the administration. This is due to the fact that the State is in a situation where it is forced to seek measures to increase efficiency and reduce costs. We estimate that the proposal for a law in this area is incomplete or in our opinion even dangerous, as also pointed out by the Information Commissioners and the Legal and Legislative Service. In the SDS Group, we believe that the existing law is good enough and that there is no need to change the legal text in this area. In a desire for the central strategic management of state information technology and the standardisation and consolidation of information technology in the state administration, or investing in it, we see a danger. We estimate that there are certain interests behind this, which we will see when individual public contracts are made. We have no problems with most of the articles of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In particular, we do not have any problems with those articles which align the law with the solutions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act. We have tabled amendments to the articles that we believe do not belong to this novel, but you have rejected our amendments. For we are concerned about the security of personal data, so in the SDS Group we will not support the law, but we will not deny it that it will not be misunderstood. We support the efforts of all state authorities to make citizens more and more e-lettered, but not at the cost of the security of personal data and the abuse of public procurement.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Purity SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law is a twin to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and it interferes with the working areas of those ministries that have changed by establishing a new government and new ministers. I should like to start by saying that support for this law has been provided to the Group of Social Democrats, even because the Legislative and Legal Service has said that the coalition amendments have been prepared so that their comments are duly incorporated into the amended bill. And the fact is, in Article 1, both coalition groups and the SDS Group had the same proposal to delete Article 1 and this proposal was also adopted. As regards the central information and communication system, which is also part of this proposed novel, opinions and views on it have been drawn. I hope that the black predictions that have been heard on the committee about the abuse of personal data and the strange things that will happen in public procurement will not come true. The fact is that many words have also been made at the expense of Article 6 of the draft law, which in the original version, as transmitted by the Government, included a provision that tasks in the field of the implementation of constitutional and legal provisions relating to the special rights of members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and the monitoring and care for the protection of special rights in Slovenia of the living Roma community should not remain in this ministry, but that they should move to the Office of the President – or in this case the President – of the Government, it is explained that they also agree with the members of both national and Roma communities, including the Social Democrats. We believe that this has regulated what has always seemed strange to us that minority rights have been placed in the Ministry of the Interior. We believe that this also confers on the symbolic level what is specifically stated by the Constitution is specific constitutional rights, which must also be properly incorporated into legislation. As we say in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Ms. Kristina Valenčič, Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Like any government so far, it has the current legitimate right to shape the functioning and structure of ministries in its own way, with the aim of ensuring better operationalisation and better performance. And this was also done by the coalition, with the adoption of the amendment of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in March of this year. Today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration follows this. It therefore brings the work areas and competences between ministries into line with the current government law. In addition to these harmonisations, the proposal also entails the obligation to provide free data on reimbursements and other benefits from the working relationship of public servants and officials with a view to transparent and effective monitoring of the movement of labour costs and further appropriate action. The last set of proposed amendments concerns the area of electronic management. If anything, information and telecommunications equipment must be subject to continuous rapid development and upgrades. The relevant legislation must also bring this into line. The provisions currently in force are obsolete and do not correspond to the actual situation. As exceptions, only some central portals and services are defined and a number of others have been omitted since the adoption of this law. Let me just mention that last week, the e-social project won as the best electronic solution at the United Nations competition. With the closure of the Information Technology Centre, the development and management of information and telecommunications, hardware and software has spread across individual national authorities, thus raising costs and increasing the number of partial solutions that are mutually or wholly incompatible. In the current financial situation, when seeking rationalisation and optimization in all areas, it is certainly necessary to reduce costs in this area, which will be enabled by centralisation and strategic management of state information technology. Members and Members of the National Gazette will be supported by the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u124	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the beginning of its term of office, each government has the right to determine, on the basis of its programme of work or coalition agreement, the formal and substantive structure of the state administration, so that we will not oppose it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The proposed amendment of the Law on State Administration, which is ahead of us today, is essentially building on the month of March the adopted amendment of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which redefined the structure of the Government. In addition, the proposed amendment to the Law on State Administration also lays down the obligation of budgetary users to provide free data on reimbursements and other benefits from the employment ratio of public servants and administrators of Apes, which should allow for better monitoring of the situation with regard to the evolution of labour costs, the control of budgetary resources paid and the provision of analytical bases and the financial calculations of individual effects. According to the assessment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the provisions relating to electronic management are also important. The draft law thus lays down the basis for the central strategic management of state information technology and its uniform management, which is intended to improve the capacity of communication and information systems. By establishing binding technology standards and guidelines and a common security policy for the functioning of the Central Information System, a common framework should be established for the development of individual information solutions in a specific substantive area. A more precise definition of the latter will be laid down by a government regulation. A strategic coordination called by the Government, consisting of representatives of individual budgetary users and certain holders of public powers, whose main task will be to maximise the development of the system, should also be established. An important novelty is also the establishment of a legal basis for the integration of electronic records of public authorities, local authorities and public authorities carrying out administrative tasks with the central register of the population and the business register of Slovenia. The records will be able to be linked on the basis of ems, tax or parent numbers, in procedures where this data is a mandatory component of the application. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will not oppose the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, as it also brings certain administrative burdens and long-term financial savings to the state budget, in addition to defining the powers of ministries. We find it interesting, however, that the proposed law confers competence on the safety and quality of food or food in catering activities and institutional food establishments and food establishments at work from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. In the previous coalition, there was a great desire for such a transfer of power, thus providing the full legal basis for the control of food security in one institution. However, last year the position of the same Minister of Health was unswerving and the transfer of powers was not achieved. But under the new government, it obviously becomes impossible. As it is said, we will not oppose the proposed amendment of the Law on State Administration in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! During the period of uncertainty of the political situation at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, efforts were made by the party and the DeSUS Group of Members to get an operational government as soon as possible and to start working for citizens and citizens what they were promised; this is to get rid of the clutches of the crisis and lead Slovenia into a better future. She's a new Mag. Alenka Bratušek was confirmed on 27 February this year, its primary task was to form a new coalition and to form a new government and to harmonise the structure of ministries. In accordance with the agreement of the coalition and the adoption of the amendment of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the powers of certain ministries have thus changed and a new Ministry of Culture has been established. It is therefore necessary to adopt these changes in the new areas of individual ministries, which we support in our parliamentary group. The bill includes a number of amendments. These relate to the transmission of data on the remuneration and other reimbursements of public servants to Apes. This agency is provided with salary data and other benefits and reimbursements have been excluded. In our Group of Members, we believe that in one place all the personal benefits of the public sector will be combined, not just the wages, which will provide a clearer and more comprehensive picture of the monitoring of the situation with regard to the movement of labour costs and the control of budget disbursements. A number of discussions were aimed at a change in the area of electronic management. It is true that the proposal is going towards centralisation, which on the one hand also makes it possible to operate more efficiently between public sector institutions and between them and citizens and also means cost savings. From this point of view, we trust the Ambassador and Member of the DeSUS Group with the Minister and his conclusions that this is a good solution, which we will also confirm when we vote in favour of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. New Slovenia Embassy Group, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, representative of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Good, fast and efficient work of the state administration also allows good legislation that changes only in cases where there are substantial substantive reasons for doing so. The Law on State Administration is being amended for the fourth time in this mandate alone and we are transferring the areas from one ministry to another, and then, if possible, we are going back. The case for this is the State Prosecutor's Office, of course public administration, local self-government and some other areas. All these organisational changes bring with them enormous administrative work and consequently unnecessary costs, from the replacement of writing tables, transfers of assets, transfers of public servants from one ministry to another and so forth. So we only deal with some forms all the time, not the contents. If the Law on State Administration needs to be amended, it would be expected that the Government, as a proponent of that law, will present what substantive advantages the new organisation of state administration will bring, for example, how much will the transfer of public and local self-government from the judiciary to the Ministry of the Interior department improve the organisation, quality of work and how much will the costs of work and operations of each area be reduced. Or: what advantages and improvements the transfer of the State Prosecutor's Office from the Ministry of the Interior to the Department of Justice. These explanations, the proposed amendment to the Law on State Administration, which we will decide at this meeting of the National Assembly, does not, and in our opinion, does not follow the amendment of the law at all. We are also detained until the proposed way of establishing a central information system. We are convinced that the current partial solutions in this area, and in particular a large share of outsourcing in the field of information technology, are inadequate and too expensive. In this regard, I also proposed to the Chairman of the Committee, at a meeting of the home working body, perhaps a special meeting to discuss the information system, perhaps the optimization of the system, better organisation and, above all, better efficiency. That's what the president promised me. The way in which the central information system is established, as proposed by the Government in this bill, is only a legal basis for the conclusion of new contracts with external operators, which is likely to increase already too much costs for information systems, not only in the short term, but also in the long term, as maintenance costs, necessary improvements and upgrades of this type of material cost will not be avoided in the coming years. The right solution would be to organise an internal information service within the Ministry of Public Administration, which would carry out this project and thus support the solution in Novi Slovenija. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not support the proposed amendment to the Law on State Administration of Members of the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Member of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities, Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration enjoys the support of our parliamentary group. It is clear that most of the changes in the law are due to the different organisation of sectoral ministries in certain areas, which prejudges certain meaningful corrections also under this law. The proposal to amend the Law on State Administration also has an important content from the point of view of indigenous national communities, as already mentioned in part by Mrs Potrat, because it provides for the transfer of the current Nationality Service to the President's Office - or President - of the Government. In the past, before the period of the previous government, that service, even as the Office of Nationality, worked within the General Secretariat of the Government. This solution has not been the most fortunate since the intervention of the issue at the level of political decision-making has been made difficult in many cases due to the nature of the activities within the General Secretariat. At that time, the Office was primarily a service service with important and well-functioning activities, but it was unable to function or act as a politically influential coordinating government entity, which would be absolutely necessary in terms of the constitutional situation of indigenous and other national communities. We had already proposed solutions to put him on the side of the Cabinet of Prime Minister. During the one-year term of the former so-called other Janša government, they joined the search for a solution by placing the office in the Ministry of the Interior, in combination with the operation of the State Secretary in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister, also competent to cooperate with the Member of the indigenous national communities. As far as the latter is concerned, our cooperation and coordination with the competent State Secretary have been good. Despite the concerns of certain political actors towards such a solution in the national community and even in our parliamentary group, we did not oppose the said solution because we felt that the proposed option from the point of view of the national communities could be successful. It should be pointed out that the relationship between the previous Ministry of the Interior and the problems of the national community has been good and correct. The problem was mainly the functional placement of the former Nationality Office into the structure of the internal ministry, which, in accordance with the organisation of the Ministry, was transformed into a ministerial service. However, the reason was not in this, not in the approach itself, for the problems, but specifically because of the specificity of the activities that were very different and diverged from the other parts of the interior ministry, but because of the resulting political changes, time was running out. On the basis of what I have said, I am pleased, from the point of view of the national communities, that it is now an approach to finding a solution, coordinating and carrying out government activities in relation to obligations and problems to national communities as we have long wanted; therefore, that the service or office which is operationally, professionally, engaged in this activity should be placed in the structure of the President's Office – or the President – of the Government, because it is a multi-layered matter which touches on various areas of expertise that are not a matter of only one substantive ministry. Since Article 19 of the transitional and final provisions of the draft law also provides for, inter alia, that the current government service shall be taken over by the Cabinet of the President of the Government not later than two months after the entry into force of this Act and that acts, internal organisation and systematisation of jobs shall be coordinated, we recommend that those responsible cooperate directly with representatives of the national communities in the search for operational solutions due to the specific area of activity already mentioned. In view of the important functional, in certain cases also of the very difficult enforcement role of that service or of the office which carries out activities in relation to the national communities, we propose that, in the case of placement, it be properly decided, in particular, on the nature of such a government service, as I have already indicated, probably as an office, and on a clearer definition of competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Dr. László Göncz. Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you again, and thank you very much again. Dear Members and Members, Madam Secretary of State! Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which entered into force 14. 3. In 2013 he changed the structure of the government and in the transitional provisions he also regulated the obligations to harmonise the law on state administration. In addition to aligning the provisions with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act, we also welcome the amendments to Chapter 8 relating to electronic management. We believe that, in addition to reducing wages, there is a need for reserves and other possible savings to be found within the functioning of the state administration as such. A higher degree of centralisation of state information technology can achieve significant savings while significantly increasing the quality of services and productivity. The positive effects are also reflected in the practice of some other European countries, which have been largely saved by the consolidation of e-commerce in the state administration. For example, since 2008, Austria has saved more than 132 million euros by centralisation, so we are talking about high savings that can be secured without lowering wages and other labour costs. The single management of state information will improve the capacity of communication and information systems. This will provide users within the national administration with effective support for decision-making and the optimal implementation of tasks in the national and international environment on the basis of cost-effective, reliable and secure access to data and connectivity. In doing so, it should also be pointed out that this avoids the problems caused by the incompatibility of the different information environments within the state administration, which in the current situation entails considerable costs. The proposed novel can introduce a clear strategic competence of the Ministry, allow for the uniform management and direction of state information technology, coordinated e-commerce to state administration, the development of common policies, standards and specifications in this area, and so on. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal as it allows for effective management of a significant increase in the quality of services and productivity, and it can also bring great savings. We also welcome the placement of the Nationality Office in the Cabinet of the President of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Chehovin. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the proposal will be made in accordance with the timetable tomorrow, as part of the vote Thursday. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the road laws. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. At its 6th session, on 8 May 2013, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a Workplace Mother, and since the Committee on Articles of the Law did not adopt the articles of the Law, the second consideration of the draft law at the Working Body meeting was completed. That is why today is only followed by a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and Mr Branko Smodiš, the Group of Social Democrats, is the first to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. And good day to all in attendance. In the Social Democrats' Group, we voted against the amendments and additions to the law on infrastructure and space, as proposed by the Roads Act, because the adoption of some of the proposed amendments would significantly reduce the level of transport safety in Slovenia, especially for the weakest road users, these are pedestrians and cyclists. Yesterday, police reported that by yesterday, 13 pedestrians had died on the roads. The novel, as proposed, was not coordinated with the general and professional public, nor were local communities invited to participate in its creation. A number of comments and warnings to the text of the proposed amendment were also made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. By abolishing the Public Agency for Transport Safety, which is also related to this amendment to the law, we have already opposed the general debate on the proposed amendment of the Drivers Act and the amendment of the Motor Vehicles Act and for which the National Assembly has voted that they are not fit for further consideration. In the Social Democrats' Group, we voted in favour of the decision of the parent committee to reject the proposed amendments to the law and to address this law, which, inter alia, constitutes a setback in traffic safety, allows for too much road advertising and would cause major problems for road managers, thus ending. As the Committee has announced, by rejecting this amendment, it will also be possible for the proposer to draw up a new document that will be in line with the professional public and will take full account of the principles of transport safety and the interests of local community and society managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Smodish. Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mrs Kristina Valenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! At the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Roads at the 12th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we have concluded in the Civil Gazette that, despite some of the solutions we have opposed, the proposal is suitable for further consideration. We have assessed that we can adequately complement and upgrade it, with the aim of ensuring greater road safety and removing some administrative obstacles. Following the legislative procedure, it has proved impossible to achieve this. More. The bill was not in line with the municipalities, although it imposed new obligations on them, the new financial burden was not in line with the professional public and the administrator of state roads. The Legislative and Legal Service also had a number of comments, including comments to the effect that the proposed text includes important substantive changes, while the explanation is very modest and does not reach the standard of explanation as required by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Some proposed simplifications of procedures also have a negative impact on transport safety and even reduce it. This is because the number of deaths on our roads increased in the first months of this year, which is unacceptable for the National List. We are aware that all actors in transport must contribute to increased transport safety, while the country must, with its actions and solutions, set a course towards that goal. In the Civil Gazette, we followed the opinion of the Government, and at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the scope of the bill we did not support. The Minister has already said that a new proposal is being prepared that will be in line with all stakeholders and that will bring solutions that will help a safer, more efficient and user-friendly transport system.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u138	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! At its last meeting, the National Assembly's Home Committee, i.e. the Infrastructure and Space Committee, decided not to adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Roads Act and thereby withdraw it from the legislative procedure. The Committee therefore decided as we proposed in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party in the first reading of the amendment of this law, which was carried out by the National Assembly in March. In our Group of Members, we have already warned that the adoption of extensive organisational and substantive amendments to the Roads Act in a situation where we did not even have a responsible minister with full powers and that the reorganisation of the Ministry itself was also inappropriate. As with the amendment to the Drivers Act, we have also considered that it is more reasonable to withdraw it from the legislative procedure. In this respect, we have highlighted the need to re-examine the amended and, where appropriate, other provisions, particularly because of a number of comments, both professional and general public, which were not involved in the preparation of the novel. That the amendments and additions to the Roads Act were prepared quickly and were therefore neither consistent nor duly substantiated, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which made extensive substantive and nomological comments on the proposal for a law on 10 pages, also confirmed its opinion. Since this is a very important law, which also has a strong impact on road safety, we are convinced in the Slovenian People's Party, despite many positive solutions in the law, that it is better to think twice and only to change it once. So, as we have suggested in the first reading, we reiterate our position that the current Ministry leadership, in cooperation with the professional public and other stakeholders, should re-examine the proposed amendment, with a view, of course, to reviewing the comments and proposals and thus putting the amended and amended Law on Roads back into the legislative procedure as soon as possible. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect the proposer, in particular the Minister himself, to pay particular attention to those legal provisions that have a bearing on road safety – that is, on the life and health of road users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. DeSUS Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. I'm asking if anyone else would like to present their position. Then this time we'll release DeSUS's position. We will proceed with the presentation of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The coalition majority on the home work body decided that the amendment of the Roads Act was not suitable for further consideration. In New Slovenia we did not oppose the novels, because we considered that it brought some improvements mainly in terms of simpler administrative procedures and the elimination of those procedures that proved to be less effective in practice. In spite of some good solutions, we have noted in the law a provision that could allow the installation of roadside light winds beyond the criteria of traffic safety and therefore have also tabled an appropriate amendment to this article. Due to procedural circumstances, the amendment was not adopted at the meeting of the Committee, but the view prevailed that the problem of the installation of light-vitrines was present and that it needed to be resolved. The Minister has already announced that the Ministry will prepare a new novelty, which will also take into account our comments on transport safety. In New Slovenia, we expect the novelty to be prepared as soon as possible, as the frequency of traffic accidents has recently informed us that transport safety in Slovenia needs to be given more attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u142	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for the Roads Act would regulate the planning, management and maintenance of public roads. In this context, I would further regulate the area of state roads. Some of the proposed solutions in the bill could be useful, namely proposals for school transport arrangements in connection with station safety, unmarked bus stops in remote areas, removal of certain administrative barriers to the issue of technical specifications and guidelines applicable to the construction, design and maintenance of public roads. The granting of competences to tollers that could cover the site of a traffic accident on motorways and monitor the implementation of the rules on maximum permissible masses and axle loads would also be a good solution. At the same time, however, there are too many solutions that significantly reduce the level of traffic safety and therefore cannot be supported. Some of the proposals were not in line with both the professional and the public concerned. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also pointed out that certain specific concerns of a legal system have been raised in relation to certain articles and have also pointed out some inconsistencies in the proposed legislative text and terminology inconsistencies. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia also recalls Article 78 of the Law, which deals with information and advertising on public roads. In a good decade, Slovenia was flooded by advertising panels of all kinds and forms set up along highways, state roads, settlements, intersections and pedestrian crossings. The Kosolci are therefore no longer the cultural heritage of the Slovenian landscape, but the bearers of advertising messages. We therefore propose that this area be regulated at the same time as the provisions of the new legislative text are drawn up. For all the reasons mentioned in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will not support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The SDS Group, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u144	Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Roads Act is one of the laws included in the package and proposed by the previous government. The purpose of this Act is to exclude a rational approach to state resources and, secondly, to reduce administrative and bureaucratic obstacles. First of all, it is the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Safety of Transport and the transfer of its powers to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. This is not about termination; I would say it was a lot to hear security diminishing. Security is not reduced, only competence is transferred to another body and thus in a more rational manner. Secondly, some of the solutions to the installation and construction of road and cycling connections are eliminated, following the principle of adapting solutions to certain specific circumstances. Thus, in setting up bus stations along main and regional roads, it will take greater account of the characteristics of the road and will be regulated by speed limits in a settlement where only the station is established. The procedure for implementing and issuing technical specifications and technical guidelines applicable to the construction, design and maintenance of all public roads shall be simplified. The way in which technical specifications are drawn up and issued will be further regulated by the Under-Law of the Minister. There is also a large number of notification signaling along the roads, which informs road users of various petrol services, tourist attractions, and it is up to the road manager to set up such a signal. This arrangement, which is already in force for state roads, extends to all roads, as well as to municipal roads. Where investment maintenance works and maintenance works are carried out in public interest, the authorisation for the use of the road issued by the Minister responsible for the transport, in the case of public roads or mayor in the case of local roads shall be withdrawn. The condition for the use of the road is an expert technical review. The appropriateness and use of the road shall be decided by the controller himself and shall take full responsibility for his decision, not that he who assumes responsibility, minister or mayor. The proposed amendment also assigns certain responsibilities to tollers, especially in the area of motorways. In this way, toll inspectors will be able to secure the place of the accident and will also have the authority to control the rules on maximum permissible weights and masses. In the implementation of the rules on maximum total and permissible masses, the operator of the road, where the infringement of the rules has been established, shall also give the possibility of recovery of compensation for exceptional transport at an altitude, as would have been the case if an appropriate permit had been obtained. Reimbursement is a source of rehabilitation and rehabilitation of roads that are damaged by excessive axle loads. Furthermore, the law also simplifies the procedure for the use of state road for events that do not impede road traffic. In such a case, the operator’s authorisation is not required. The organiser of the event shall, however, provide the controller with the necessary information. In the field of information and advertising, the current regulation is not entirely appropriate, as it does not contain sufficiently clear restrictions on the establishment of information and advertising facilities. In practice, it is found that information facilities containing components which, by color, form and symbol, resemble traffic signalling and thus have a negative impact on traffic safety are being set up. As the law achieves a rational implementation of the law and a more effective implementation of the tasks, we will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you so much for the introduction. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety in Rail Transport. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to Minister Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u146	Dear President, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! The basic objective of the law is to transpose Commission Directive 2011/18/EU of 1 March 2011 amending Annexes 2, 5 and 6 to Directive 2008/57/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the interoperability of the Community rail system. The Directive should be implemented by 31. 12. In 2011, the European Commission brought an action against the Republic of Slovenia on 12 April of this year for non-compliance. The proposal transposes the following into the Slovenian legal order: change in the current division of railway subsystems into structural and operational subsystems, add a declaration and procedure for verification under national rules and determine who can carry out this procedure. The verification process shall include the production of an assessment and a risk report, interoperability and safety of railway vehicles shall be ensured by the maintenance and control of maintenance. In addition, the law also regulates the following: simplifications in land ownership on the basis of a decision of the Government to establish public benefit and for works, works carried out by maintenance works to the public benefit of their structural and functional properties also carried out on land outside the lane; rationalisation and acceleration of works in the field of level crossings of roads across railways. The draft law also contains a clearer text of the provision of Chapter 10 on enforcement railway workers, such as the authorisation of a train driver, a more detailed definition of the conditions for obtaining the right to work at the workplace of an executive railway worker. The proposal provides that the Public Railway Agency shall carry out the tasks of the assessment and certification body. In accordance with Regulation 352/2009 EC, it is necessary from 1 January 2009. Seven. 2012 to carry out a risk analysis for all rail subsystems and to produce a safety assessment report on this. In accordance with the law governing the fields of accreditation bodies, the security authority will first have to obtain accreditation of the Slovenian accreditation for the performance of the tasks of the certification authority and develop an accreditation scheme for the functioning of the certification body. The purpose of the bill is to implement European Union rail safety legislation into Slovenian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Minister. The proposal was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Jožet Veliki, Vice-President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u148	Once again, hello to everyone. At its 6th meeting, on 8 May 2013, the Committee on Infrastructure and Space considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Railway Safety Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. At its 12th meeting, the National Assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law and agreed that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Legislative and Legal Services, the Public Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Railways participated in the meeting of the Committee. On behalf of the proposaler, Minister of Infrastructure and Space Samo Omerzel stressed that the main objective of the bill is to transpose the European Directive which affects the safety and interoperability of the rail system, which Member States should implement by the end of 2011. He stressed that the proposer supported the amendment and amendment of the law and the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and invited the members of the committee to support them. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service had given an opinion in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. She pointed out that the comments made were largely taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, but some expressed concerns remained. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the bill and some substantive comments were made. He highlighted the proposal to delete Article 42 of the current law and agreed with the Commission on the proposal to delete the provisions relating to stroboscope lights. In the debate on Articles and Amendments tabled in Article 37 of the Law, a proposal was submitted for an amendment to the Committee on the Elimination of the Last Paragraph in Article 51, paragraph 5, of the current law, which speaks of the installation of special mirrors at a level crossing marked only by a traffic mark passing through a line which is not subject to conditions to ensure interoperability. The representative of the proposal stressed that he agreed with the proposed contents of the amendments. At the time of the vote, the amendment was adopted. With regard to Article 42, a proposal for an amendment to the Committee was made to limit the certification under the Directive governing the certification of drivers to drivers and drivers of motor vehicles, while other enforcement workers would be subject to the current arrangements. In relation to this proposal, the representative of the Public Railway Agency stressed that they were opposed to the proposed amendment. The amendment was not adopted below. A proposal for an amendment to the Committee was submitted to Article 51 to repeal the provision providing that towing vehicles which are not subject to conditions for interoperability on the front of the vehicle in the direction of driving shall be fitted and lit by a strict-scopic light which must be excluded when driving on routes subject to conditions to ensure interoperability. It has been pointed out that such arrangements are not known in comparable countries. Nor does the existing regime contribute to a better regulation of this area. The proposal for an amendment to the Committee has become irrelevant since the Committee has adopted with majority support an amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, which provides for the deletion of Article 51 of this proposal. The Committee further adopted amendments to the amendments of the members of the groups of the positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and DeSUS to Articles 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 14, 20, 23, 24, 25, 26, 30, 31, 37, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55 and 56, for the new 53.a and 55a to the title of the transitional and final provisions and for the new title of the transitional and final provisions. The Committee adopted the following amendments: Article 37, Article 55 and the amendment to the amendment to Article 55. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-05-22-SDZ6-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you very much for this report. Since the assembly has already held a general debate on the draft law at its 12th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on this proposal will take place tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item as well as today's 14th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye.
