ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Renata Brunskole, Mrs Marija Plevčak, mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs. Mateja Pučnik, Mr. Dragutin Mate, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Mitja Mershol, Mr Jožef Kunič and Mr Franz Puksic. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, it's a first-hand proposal for a law on the recovery of damage to persons who have been removed from the permanent residence register. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor first to the representative of the Government, Dr Gregor Virant, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, you have a very complex and complex problem ahead of you. The problem of so-called deleted has been dragging for 20 years, and it's time to get him off the table. The Slovenian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the Slovenian authorities had made a legal error by erasure in 1992 and had wronged many people. Slovenia must give effect to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. We must do this because of the reputation of our country, because of its commitment to the principles of the rule of law and because it is fair. The law before you is implementing what has been imposed on us by the European Court of Human Rights. Establishes a compensation scheme for deleted persons. The compensation will be legally payable to all those who have been erased who have, on any legal basis, settled their status. So citizenship or residence permit. Let me remind you that the acquisition of a permanent acquisition licence for deleted by the 1999 status law, which was amended in 2010, has been greatly simplified. The status could be arranged by anyone who, at the time of the deletion, showed at least a minimum interest after his stay in Slovenia. The compensation, which therefore belongs to all those who have settled their status, is slightly more than 10 000, will by law amount to 40 euros for each month. It's a so-called flatline. Pavšal is comparable to the compensation received, for example, by refugees and labour deportees under the law governing victims of war violence. This flat will be administered in a simple and rapid administrative procedure, without any bureaucratic complications. The beneficiary, however, will then be able to file an action by which he will apply higher compensation in the course of a fair trial in the light of individual circumstances. In truth, there will be no obsolescence and the total compensation will be limited to 2.5 times the flat rate. For example, for 20 years of deletion, the beneficiary would accept EUR 9 000 600 flat or, in truth, a total of EUR 24 000. The compensation will be paid in five instalments between 2014 and 2018. The law provides for some other forms of just satisfaction or "just satisfaction", as the European Court of Human Rights calls it, for example, the acquisition of certain rights which, by law, belong only to citizens, such as the resolution of the housing issue. In determining the amount of compensation, we also took into account the financial situation in the country. That's what you have to say. The country must be dug out of permanent budget deficits and a swamp of debts, so we are cutting public spending at all ends. This will also have to be taken into account when deleted. Taking into account all their requirements, the rapid calculation would put a burden on state finances for more than a billion euros. The story of deleted is not black and white, so the law rules an individual approach. The compensation does not belong to persons who have not shown interest after their stay in Slovenia, although the amount of the discount is the same for all and individual circumstances can be proved in justice. So this is an individual approach that many of us have always advocated. We have tried to write a law - correct, just, balanced and reasonable law. Let this be the case today's debate. We simply have to solve the problem, not only for the sake of justice, but also because it will come back to us as a boomerang from Strasbourg with the twenty-year financial consequences. The story of deleted persons has been given high levels of politicisation all the time. It is time to close this story in a dignified and reasonable way, without political accounting and emotional oversteering. Let's do this calmly, compassionately and rationally. Finally, the Slovenian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights will have a final say on whether we have done everything as is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Maja Dimitrovski will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed, in the case of deleted, the unconstitutionality and illegality of conduct twice, indirectly even seven times. However, we are witnessing the ongoing stories of denial and non-resolving of the injustices systematically violated by the Slovenian authorities in 1991 and 1992. More. Deleted, 25 000 671 of them have been used too often in the past for political struggle between different political parties, and the debate itself has often been under every level of political and legal culture. Today, too, due to past discussions, the image is such that there is no citizen of Slovenia who would not have such or different opinion on deleted persons. However, what is deleted from the register of residents is and who are deleted. On 26 February 1992, the administrative authorities, as instructed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the citizens of the former republics of Yugoslavia, who until then were the legal permanent residents of Slovenia, withdrew their excuses for permanent residence and thus turned them into illegal foreigners. All this without warning and the possibility of a complaint. They did not notify the victims of the deletion. They found out about him by accident when, for example, they came to the administrative units after official business. They were then destroyed by all valid personal documents issued in Slovenia. Others have received an invitation, but only in order to destroy their documents and send them to the Foreign Office. The effects of the deletion were severe. For example, they were no longer able to find legal employment, to be insured, to receive social support, to have no access to the educational system, and to be listed. I will not stress how many constitutionally protected human rights and freedoms have been violated by this unilateral act, as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has also repeatedly recognized. In addition to the international human rights obligations, the United Nations Committee on Economic and Social Rights, the United Nations Committee on Human Rights, the United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination, the European Commission on Combating Racism and Intolerance, the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, and finally the European Court of Human Rights in the Kurič case, have found it to be in breach of international human rights obligations. However, Slovenian policy has not been able to achieve sufficient political wisdom to eliminate the injustices that have been committed. Personally, I believe that the solution to the problem of deletion is a necessary step of the State towards the correction of injustices and the return of human dignity and the guarantee of the rule of law, which the Republic of Slovenia is and, last but not least, stipulates Article 15 of the Constitution, which states: "The judicial protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the right to remedy the consequences of their violation are ensured." End of quote. The decision of the Constitutional Court and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights clearly and clearly refer to the violation of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, namely the right to privacy and family life, the right to an effective remedy and the prohibition of discrimination. The Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights therefore adopted, in the case of Kurić and the other v Slovenija, a pilot judgment ordering the Republic of Slovenia to adopt, within one year, a system of compensation for all persons who come into consideration as victims of the conduct of the Republic of Slovenia. Before the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, the provision of the status of deleted persons did not automatically mean the right to compensation, and therefore the decisions for permanent residence with effect from the date of issue by Slovenia to the deleted are not related to the compensations imposed by the European Court of Human Rights. Those who claimed that no compensation would come, so they didn't lie. For the Slovenian legal order does not recognise the entitlement to compensation for erased persons. Only the European Court of Human Rights granted compensation to the victims, which found that the Slovenian legal order did not provide for any compensation and ordered the State to draw up a compensation scheme. However, the damages to which the European Court of Human Rights had deleted were not assessed on the basis of the provisions of the status by which the injustices had been abolished, but on the basis of the deletion of 1992. Your Honor! In addition to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights in Positive Slovenia, we also refer to this deletion as a discriminatory and illegal measure by the then authorities, especially a serious violation of human rights, greater than any other offence committed by our country in its short existence, since the right to human rights is a right of nationality and Member States are also obliged to prevent a state of state without citizenship. After the mass and damage suffered, we can certainly talk about the biggest human rights violation in Slovenia alone. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer a dilemma about the illegal, unconstitutional and discriminatory behaviour of the Slovenian State. Today we have a chance to get rid of these injustices. This is, we believe, the right and, above all, the duty of all of us gathered together. The opening of the issue may seem to be the wrong decision at a time when we are facing an economic and financial crisis. However, we must not only survive the crisis, but we must also come out stronger with a sense of respect for human dignity. And that's why we're here today. That's what today is about. The time to solve such a major problem is obviously never right, but we must ask ourselves whether Slovenia will be dominated by narrow party interests or whether the rule of law that respects the decisions of the highest court in the country and even more respects the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. Today we have the opportunity to complete this chapter of Slovenian self-sustainment history and to show respect for the Slovenian Constitution, the Charter of Human Rights and not least for the people who have been wronged. In the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we are determined that the injustices will be definitively eliminated to these people as soon as possible. We will therefore, of course, support the bill at this stage. And that's it. Positive Slovenia as a new party on the political scene is certainly not responsible for the deletion itself, nor is it responsible for the non-removal of its consequences. Nevertheless, we believe and believe that the National Assembly, as the highest body or as a legislative body, must recognise the deletion, along with the consequences of a systematic and grave violation of human rights and an excuse for the removal of those who have been removed, with the adoption of this law in the National Assembly being the most excusable. In doing so, the positive Slovenia also expects that the text of the law to be submitted by the end of the discussion, both with non-governmental organisations that are committed to remedying the consequences of the deletion, as well as the deleted ones, will be provided with the best possible remedy for the injustices, taking into account all the circumstances. We will support the law, but we expect appropriate changes to be made in further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u6	Good-bye to all of you! In a story that took place for quite a decade and that I had repeatedly warned in the National Assembly that it would eventually emerge into a mere auction between the current government and the amount of compensation erased, I was insulted and the SDS with me that I was a liar because there would never be any compensation. I said that, like the transition left does, there will be compensation and that this is the only question that will come before us. And what is the name of the law that is before us today? A law about repaying honor or something like that, which was a lot of talk? No, it's called the Compensation Act for Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. It's about compensation and nothing else. Now, let's see what the statements were when we offered solutions that were all arrogantly rejected, including those of the constitutional law, and the first ones we wrote with the then Minister of Social Democrats, Mr Bohince, and then the then President of the Government, Mr Rob, grossly humiliated him and threw that law into the trash, and then later in 2009, among other solutions. All were arrogantly rejected, even though we said that we were ready to talk about everything except one thing, the principle that each case should be looked at separately, which is only consistent with modern law, to look at what someone did, what someone did, and to actually correct the injustice to all who were wronged to them, so that those who were aggressors to independent Slovenia, from what they had once calculated, could really not benefit. That was the only problem, and it's the only place where it's always broken. Let's take a look at some statements. Miran Potč, then Head of the SD Group: "The issuance of decisions has nothing to do with the possibility of compensation on this basis." Paul Gantar, President of Parliament, indeed: "No, there will be no compensation." Katarina Kresal: "By regulating the status of deleted citizens, we will not grant them citizenship, nor will we grant them compensation." And a few more accusations of lies at the expense of those we warned about how it would end. Miran Potč again as leader of the parliamentary group, spoke in double because he also spoke with Mrs Potrato, who is also with us today: "Today we both know that the bond law prevents any enforcement of damages", and so on, "because this is an absolute limitation period and therefore does not frighten people with damages." Then let's say Borut Pahor: "I hear flat-rate estimates that the issue of decisions now means that everyone who issues decisions is subject to some compensation. That's not true." And then Katarina Kresal: "SDS is very good at manipulating statements." And so on and so forth. I've got this material right here, believe me, I can read it for like two hours. As well as the accusations of lies when we talked about ending the damages and thus wasting time, 10 precious years were lost that could be used for individual procedures to correct all injustices consistently where they were, and to see what is true and what is not. Now you have achieved what you wanted everyone in the same boiler, that the country's manoeuvre space is virtually gone, that it is only a matter of compensation and that it is being resolved at a time and in a way in which no one is actually satisfied. You have cooked with arrogance the rejection of all possible options and the solution of all negotiations of some kind that will cost this country very much and it has already, and which will not in fact lead to a solution that is truly just and truly beneficial to anyone. But it will be humiliating for some, for others it may also be criminal. In doing so, I can only say that the SDS will in no way oppose the implementation of the judgment of the European Court of Justice. However, in order to help you find solutions in the space that you have shut down yourself, we do not see any special options, because, as we say, you have closed the room with this arrogance in the past years alone. We wish you great success in solving this problem, and we will abstain from voting on the law, such as this. The law has some good solutions and some solutions for which we have also been gravely offended in the past, and I am now asking whether these insults now apply to you who have said them yourself. How it has always been elegant to have so-called deleted and those who have actually been erased, for collateral damage in that you have drawn the matter indefinitely for political accounting. As early as 2003, 2004, when Mr Bohinj and I formed the first constitutional law, we could all sit together and reach one compromise that would be good for the country and would be good for everyone who has ever been wronged. It's been 10 years now. Probably some who are touched by this, probably even someone who has been really wronged, is no longer among us, but all the problems remain open and have emerged as a boomerang at a moment which is extremely difficult, extremely problematic for this country, and in a way that no one in Slovenia can now be honored. And now let those who have lied for so many years pay no compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u7	Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a fellow Member, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Social Democrats, we regret that the Republic of Slovenia is delaying the deadline set by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights for the scheme of compensation for deleted persons. We also regret that civil society was not involved in the drafting of the law in a timely manner, in particular representatives and representatives who were deleted. NGOs and individuals have expressed this expectation at several meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly, in particular at the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, when there was enough time to draw up the law. There was no understanding on the part of the competent minister. The lack of readiness of the government at that time has therefore wasted this opportunity. It is also not possible to talk about a dialogue that brings the view closer to each other in this proposal. We are aware that the adoption of the law is necessary, so we will not oppose it, but we stress that much can be improved in the next legislative process. For us, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service will be relevant, and the position of the European Court of Human Rights will also be important. The proposed law aims to remedy violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms and to execute the judgement of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights issued in the case of Kurić and Others v Slovenia, and in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, to systematically regulate the just satisfaction or reparation of the damage suffered by the deleted for the removal from the register of permanent residents. So the purpose of the law is something we have not yet regulated in the legislative process and in the existing laws. The previous practice of the Slovenian ordinary courts has shown that the general rules of civil law or provisions of the law governing bond relations are not appropriate and appropriate to decide on compensation for damages and compensation to the deleted. In front of the courts of the Republic of Slovenia, none of those who claimed compensation for property or property damage caused by the deletion have been legally liable. The proposed special law, which would specifically regulate the forms of just compensation or compensation for the damage caused by the deletion, would also address in the area of compensation the violations of fundamental human rights and the wrongs caused to them. The proposal allows beneficiaries to apply monetary compensation as compensation for damages resulting from the removal under the criteria and specific administrative procedure laid down by this proposal of the law; to enforce damages which do not preclude the possible application of damages in a special administrative procedure; other types of fair satisfaction expressed in material and other benefits for beneficiaries in different areas, such as the payment of a contribution to compulsory health insurance, to inclusion and priority treatment in social protection programmes, to facilitate the exercise of rights from public funds, to the State grant, to equal treatment in the resolution of the housing issue with citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to access to the educational system and to inclusion and priority treatment in the so-called integration programmes. These are entitlements, which are very important and worth mentioning precisely because they are aware of the breadth and depth of the problem they have encountered when adopting this law. The applicant in the introduction to the law specifically reasons why he has decided to pay the amount of compensation as he is, and for this way of dealing with it, mentioning the situation in which we are situated. The applicant also considers, in its final assessment, that the criteria and fixing of the maximum amount are legally provided in accordance with Article 15, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 26 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, also taking into account the interests of the social State referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a claim with which, in particular, the deleted and the lawyers cannot agree. And this issue, in particular, remains open. It is also the basic comment of civil society, which considers that some solutions have not yet been regulated so that they can talk about the consensus reached. In particular, the following questions remain outstanding: the number of beneficiaries, according to representatives, should be deleted; the amount of the cash compensation for the month of the administrative procedure should be deleted; the limitation of the cash compensation in the court proceedings and in the opinion of the representatives deleted in the court proceedings should not be limited to the amount of the cash compensation. Social Democrats believe that the law governs only the compensation scheme, but not the status issues. Therefore, as in previous laws, we have found that they are only dealing with the issue of issuing decisions or supplementary decisions and regulating the status, and we also consider this law to be a matter for dealing with compensation-related issues. However, we attach to the legitimate expectation that the law should finally take into account the Constitutional Court's decision that there was no legal basis for deletion. Therefore, the reference to the Aliens Act is inappropriate, as provided for in Article 1 of the proposed law, and the finding in the recital that the Constitutional Court merely mentioned and ruled that this was, but not that it decided that there was no legal basis for deletion. This would also help to wipe out the feeling that the State admits that the deleted was wrong, more sensitive, strengthened and that this compensation scheme law would be easier to adopt, despite their different expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister and to all present. The Republic of Slovenia wishes to take a sufficient measure to remedy the damage to those who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations, thereby implementing the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Kurić and Others v Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia did irreparable damage 20 years ago. By this year, the State had not done enough to ensure that the victims sought justice in the European Court of Human Rights. Minister Virant is thus ahead of the task of concluding the heavy chapter of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, it also had to be based on the material potential of the State in the design of the compensation scheme. The law thus stipulates that the beneficiaries of compensation were those of the other republics of the former SFRJ who did not apply for citizenship at the time of Slovenia's independence and did not regulate residence permits in our country in accordance with the Aliens Act and were thus deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. Furthermore, the law governs the decision on the very amount of flat-rate cash compensation for the continued suffering of non-profit and property nature and is intended to constitute a just satisfaction. At the same time, special solidarity compensation schemes already in force in Slovenia need to be leased. In doing so, I refer in particular to the 1995 Act on Compensation to Victims of War and Post-war Violence. Thus, a flat-rate compensation amounting to EUR 40 per month has been fixed, which means that, for example, the beneficiary who has been erased for 10 years will receive EUR 4 000 800 flat-rate compensation. In order for this compensation to be truly effective and swift, without further proof, the law provides for a quick and effective administrative procedure, where the deleted need not do anything other than make an application to the competent administrative unit. The application is free and no income will have to be paid to the beneficiaries for the compensation awarded. At the same time, the law also provides an additional legal path, i.e. special judicial protection for those beneficiaries who will consider that they have suffered greater damage than that laid down by the law in the earlier administrative procedure for the payment of the flat-rate payments, and thus may prove higher compensation by means of normal means of proof in a fair proceeding. The estimated amount that Slovenia is expected to provide for compensation to the deleted is approximately €80 million at the time of the adoption of the prepared compensation scheme. The law also provides for the above-mentioned 8 additional and very concrete measures that beneficiaries will be able to benefit from during a time-limited period, that is to say until death. In setting these measures, the law follows the proposals of non-governmental organisations and also the proposals of the victim, and as my predecessors have already mentioned, until the contribution to compulsory health insurance has been paid and, say, facilitated access to the state grant. Like the different interests in each society, as well as the different interests in our national assembly, there are different interests in the group that have been erased, so it is impossible to fully agree with the solutions in the law of all victims of the erasure. Unfortunately, the complexity of the problem does not allow for a solution to which all stakeholders would be highly satisfied. However, the bill certainly defends the rights of the majority, which have been deprived of by the State. We are therefore convinced in the National Gazette that the proposed law is an appropriate commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to finally regulate the situation of the deleted and thus close the painful chapter of our independent history. We will therefore support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you. Ms Jasnim Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome everyone together! On 26 June 2012, the European Court of Human Rights issued a judgment on the Kurić case and the other against Slovenia ordering the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a system of compensation within one year for all persons who take into account as victims of the conduct of the Republic of Slovenia. On this basis, the proposed law regulates the recovery of the damage caused by the removal of human rights and fundamental freedoms from the Register of Permanent Populations and corrects violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have specifically pointed out that once and for all this issue should be resolved by constitutional law, in the same way as in the case of independence, in order to overcome the interim solutions that have brought about differences in the treatment of beneficiaries themselves. It is not right that the mandate has repeatedly left this issue inconclusive and has often been applied to the needs of daily policy. Also in the previous term, when we adopted the previous amendment of the law under Minister Kresalovo, we cautioned that the issue of compensation could be opened by the adoption of that law as a legal basis for compensation that had not been adopted before. The government and the minister convinced us and the public that there would be no compensation. But what happened was exactly what we were alerting them to. The European Court of Human Rights has adopted a judgment that goes beyond the interests of the complainants and imposes on our country the adoption of legislation to determine the compensation that is intended to systematically and fairly regulate the satisfaction or reparation of all those who are to suffer damage as a result of the removal from the residence record and who have been entered into the records of foreigners under the then Aliens Act. In some ways, we have also received our longstanding positions in the determination of the compensation regime through the judgment of the Slovenian People's Party, namely that it is necessary to systematically facilitate the resolution of this issue individually, from case to case. We therefore support the proposed solution whereby, within a further period of three years, an offender who seems to us to be long enough and reasonable enough may impose monetary compensation in a specific administrative procedure or may claim compensation for any damage in a judicial procedure or other types of just compensation. It is also impossible to obtain compensation on a flat-rate basis, both for everyone and for the rest of the world, irrespective of the actual condition or duration. On determining the amount of compensation, we see the will of the State to respect the European Court of Justice's decision and, at the same time, to make a systematic and fair effort to ensure that everyone to whom the compensation is due is subject by law the possibility of exercising the right to compensation in accordance with our legal order and the decisions of the courts. In view of all the discussions, it is clear that all beneficiaries will never be satisfied with the amount, even if it would be twice or 10 times higher. In the Slovenian People's Party, we sincerely want to find definitive solutions on the basis of this law and close this chapter of our history. However, the reactions that have taken place when we table a bill that is before us today are in itself asking questions. Will this law finally and forever truly close the chapter of the so - called deleted, which has been drawn back to the entire history of our young country? Should we trust this once-in-a-lifetime minister and the government to propose appropriate solutions that will not always give rise to new demands? The responses to the bill unfortunately show that certain questions remain unanswered. The affected and their representatives oppose the law for various reasons, and the common denominator of their calls could say that they are expected to reject the amount of compensation and the adoption of this law. But in this way, we will never solve this problem. We therefore call on the Minister and all groups of the so-called deleted and their representatives to try to find a common denominator for a solution until the second reading of this law and agree to overcome this situation. There is sufficient time to harmonise and possibly supplement the law in the next stages of the debate. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the law on compensation for damage to persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations is suitable for further consideration, so today we will support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Over the last 20 years, the themes of the deleted have filled the Slovenian media, shared the public with those who have sympathized with them, and with those who have been condemned. Several parliamentary investigative committees have been established, written several interpretations and decisions of the Constitutional Court, a referendum has been held on deleted, some political points have been drawn up, and it is now really necessary to leave this chapter to history. Those who have been wronged by erasure must be corrected. Of course, we must be aware that the personal tragedies caused by the disappearance will never be completely rectified or rectified. The proposed law thus regulates the recovery of the damage suffered by persons removed from the Register of Permanent Populations as a result of their disappearance and corrects violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The main reason for deciding that the issue of special arrangements for the recovery of damage removed from the Register of Permanent Populations should be governed by a special law is the binding of the Republic of Slovenia on the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, which was initiated against the Republic of Slovenia before the Court of Justice. In order to implement that judgment, the Republic of Slovenia must establish a compensation scheme to be deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. Therefore, this bill allows beneficiaries, as we are likely to hear a few times today, to apply monetary compensation as compensation for each month of cancellation, to enforce damages in court proceedings and other types of just compensation expressed both in material and other benefits for beneficiaries in different areas. The procedure for the determination of monetary compensation will begin at the client's request, which may be filed within three years of the application of the proposed law, which, in our opinion, is considered to be a long and appropriate period for all interested parties to familiarise themselves with and decide on the application. As I have already mentioned, the proposal of the law, in addition to monetary compensation, also provides beneficiaries with other forms of just satisfaction that allow and facilitate access to rights in different areas where it has been found in practice that relief would be useful or necessary. The beneficiaries will thus be entitled to payment of the contribution to compulsory health insurance, to inclusion and priority treatment in social protection programmes, to facilitate the exercise of rights from public funds, to state grants, to equal treatment in the resolution of the housing issue with citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to access to the educational system and to the inclusion and priority treatment in the so-called integration programmes. In determining the criteria for the determination of monetary compensation in administrative proceedings and limiting the maximum total amount of monetary compensation that may be awarded to the court for the damage caused by the deletion, the applicant was also compelled to take into account the fact that, at the time of the global economic crisis and recession, which also has a significant impact on the Republic of Slovenia and the critical state of public finances, it is essential that the amount of monetary compensation is limited, since otherwise the provision of other human rights, which the State is obliged to provide in particular in accordance with the principle of the social State referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, would be jeopardised. At this point, we are also the most concerned in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, as the financial consequences of the proposed law will be some more than €75 million, as assessed by the applicants. This amount of monetary compensation must also include funds for the payment of other forms of fair compensation, which will also have financial implications. The amount of these resources cannot be estimated as it cannot be anticipated in the future how many beneficiaries will benefit from any of the additional measures set out in the proposal for a law. However, we must not ignore the amount of €60,000 to be set up for the establishment of a record of decisions in administrative and judicial proceedings and payments of monetary compensation to be provided to the Ministry of the Interior in 2014. In the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we have always advocated that someone must be held accountable for the wrongs committed. Unfortunately, this responsibility has not been established in all 20 years, so the consequences of the injustices will be paid by all Slovenian taxpayers, who had nothing to do with the disappearance. However, we will still feel the consequences of the additional financial burden on our wallets, as the country will certainly want this money back in the budget somewhere. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the draft law at first reading. What will be the final option, the final version of the law is still unknown, as there are still some issues that still need to be discussed by the competent ministry and representatives of the so-called deleted. In particular, it is a circle of beneficiaries, in which there is no agreement between them, including representatives who have been deleted, as shown by the correspondence we receive in the parliamentary groups, the amount of monetary compensation and its limitation. Further support for the bill will be decided from the front of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. In the first reading, we will, as has already been said, support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister Dr. Virant! Yes, New Slovenia has also made a hearty effort, within the 2004-2008 mandate, to complete this issue once and for all, once and for all. We have prepared a draft or proposal for a constitutional law, whose fathers were known for the names of Slovenian law, known constitutional lawyers. However, the then opposition, i.e. LDS and SD, strongly opposed such a solution, we still do not know why. From political calculations? We don't know. And now we are here where we are, and the burden of taxpayers will undoubtedly only increase. This is what we are accustomed to, especially under this present rule. The issue of deleted is a topic that we have been dealing with in Slovenia for even a self-sustaining period. In particular, the deleted media campaign has contributed greatly to the appearance of all these persons as victims of the political system. First of all, we stress that, as one of the independent laws of the former republics of the SFRJ, the Foreigners Act has given citizens the opportunity to regulate their status in the new country. Within two months, all had the opportunity to obtain Slovenian citizenship on favourable terms or to arrange for a permanent residence as a foreigner within the same period. Many citizens of the former republics have settled their status properly and in a timely manner, and that is precisely what we would like to stress today. Those citizens of the former republics of the SFRY who had not properly regulated their status and many of them did not even want to have it deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. Among them are many citizens of the former republics who have actually left the country and have never returned to Slovenia and have never even had an interest in living in Slovenia. However, many returned to Slovenia or returned after the Constitutional Court issued a decision assessing that the removal of nationals of other republics from the former SFRJ from the Register of Permanent Populations without a legal basis. These are returned solely for the reason of the right to the alleged compensation. In Novi Slovenija, we have always advocated a solution to the problem of the deleted and their compensation individually, i.e. each case. We have no doubt that cases of injustice and injury have been committed against the inhabitants of the former republics when they were deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. However, these facts should be identified on a case-by-case basis. Only such an approach could determine which of these persons, during which period the removal was unjustified and what amount of compensation belongs to them. We do not support the basic concept of the law under which each of the deleted is entitled to compensation, irrespective of its interest and its efforts to properly regulate its status. The absurd logic of the law is that they will be left without compensation or will receive the lowest compensation for those who have been loyal to the new state and have submitted themselves to its legal order and have settled their status in due time and within the prescribed time limit. However, the rich compensation goes to those who have begun to regulate their status, perhaps only now that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights has been issued and others against the State, irrespective of where they actually lived, what deprivations they actually suffered and how much they were actually harmed. In principle, in the process of regulating the situation, the irregular and unlawful act of the Ministry of the Interior under the leadership of Minister Katarina Kresal of the day was the issue of decisions deleted. The supplementary decisions were issued again to all those who had settled their residence permit status by 2003. Supplementary decisions were issued in contravention of the provisions of the Foreigners Act and the General Administrative Procedure Act without specific findings. Thus, a number of deleted persons came to the registration of permanent residence back, even though they were not actually entitled to it. Making supplementary decisions in this way is not only illegal but also immoral and unfair. Thus, the State has made it easy to obtain taxpayers’ money for those who have left Slovenia as a country once. And what will be the conduct of the New Slovenia Group in the case of the Proposal for a Law on Reparation of Damage to Persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations? The New Slovenia Group in its first reading, that is to say at this stage, will not oppose this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The first is Mr Dragan Bosic, and Mr Branko Kurnjek is to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. The position of the delegation was expressed by colleague Maja Dimitrovski and I would like to say something on my own behalf. The first thing that bothers me in these presentations is that we always have too much history on the wallpaper, we talk about history all the time. I'm a naturalist myself, and history is slowly getting spirited. And to tell you the truth, I've stopped following at some certain point, who's what, who's Katherine or who's who. Some things happened, that's a fact. Some people have been erased, that's a fact. Some have regulated the status, and that's a fact. If we didn't, we'd be talking about the number now, say, 25 thousand 672, 71 plus 1. But I look at the law and the solution that this marriage carries or has in it. This is about two things. One is human rights. If you violate someone's human rights, the first thing you do after you do it is say, "I'm sorry. Sorry. Sorry. I'm sorry to violate your rights. I'm sorry to put you in a position I shouldn't have put you in." It's some kind of common man. Unless you're doing this on purpose. If you're doing this on purpose, then you have nothing to apologize for. I'm just doing it because I can do it because it's in my power now and my jurisdiction. If we're going through this, the other thing's a substitute. Fixing injustices with money is some kind of weird category that can be calculated. They take up some of the values that multiply, and then you can see how much these people need to be given. But the fact is, injustice has to be corrected. And the fact is, it's a good way. It is a sad fact, however, that we have been reminded of this by Europe, despite the stopping, despite some of our morals, of our consciousness. And when I wrote the part myself – as my colleague Horvat said, some people were just writing, 374 SIT had to pay the fees – the lady stood by the line and I said, "Today is a very special day for you." She looked at me strangely and said, "What's the matter?" I said, "I apply for citizenship, I really want to be a citizen, because of Wanda and because of Sara," she had no idea who they were, wife and daughter, "and because of the children I teach at high school." And that's when I won it. For the first time, however, I felt Slovenian at the match Slovenia : Serbia at the European Championship. At that time, Slovenia led to Serbia 3 : 0. And I was cheering. I felt really Slovenian. I was sorry that Savo Milosevic had the happiness at the end and he gave almost an unregulated goal that was 3: 3. And a lot of the people we're talking about right now might feel the same way. Maybe he feels the same way, but someone didn't want him, and he said, "Okay." A lady, a faithful reader of Dinner, wrote to Helsinki monitoring that she should no longer deal with violations of the human rights of the Southerners, but rather with violations of human rights by the Slovenians. It's a very powerful message. It's a very powerful message. And then the Southerners become one literary category. "Cheffers" is what we're told. And then let Goran write a novel that's great. These substances are not missing. I'd like this national council to do something to make it run out of these substances. To delete the deleted literally by accepting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Branko Kurnjek has the floor. But get ready, Mr. Jakob Presecnik. Here you go, Mr. Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! On 26 February 1992, not only did we receive more than 20,000 direct victims of the disappearance, but we received two million indirect victims of the disappearance. Black stain, the largest black mark in our own Republic of Slovenia, which is not washed today, and we now have the opportunity to do at least something about this proposed law and give some integrity to so-called eraseds. Although in those days, for emotional reasons, we could be understood by the Slovenians, who were unpopular with the people of other countries of Yugoslavia at the time, but it should be the policy that should look ahead and see what could happen in the future with the decisions she has taken. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. And even though in 22 years most Slovenians have overlooked the injustices, life stories that have happened to so-called eraseds, politics is still not capable of overcoming battles, I could say political struggles. And that the policy will now have to overcome this, it was essentially necessary to see to it that the Grand Chamber of the European Court in the case of Kurić and the others, which ordered Slovenia to take care of the law within one year, which would also regulate compensation actions. A few days ago, Members of the Civil Code spoke with representatives of the deleted. We were talking about the bill, we were talking about compensation. I reminded them that years ago, in fact, they didn't talk about demanding compensation. All they wanted was moral satisfaction, recognition of their status. Nothing else. They didn't talk about the damages themselves. However, with the years when the policy was deaf and also with the ruling of the great Senate, these requirements have also become different. I understand that the proposed compensation figures are not satisfactory, because no number in money can restore the lost opportunities and opportunities for those victims, as the great Senate has also called for, but I am also calling on deleted ones to adopt, in the given financial situation in which our country is located, the proposed solutions brought by law and thus indirectly ensure that we do not be Slovenians once again, i.e. two million Slovenians, the indirect victims of disappearances that could be brought about by large claims for damages. The Minister also spoke about a billion euros. This is a number that our country cannot repay at this time. With such requirements erased, the erased ones will make themselves a bear’s merit. Let's do politics now, it's in our power, and it's going to be a historic moment to really cut this Gordy knot once and to fix the injustices of those who have been wronged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Bosic said not to deal with history, let's look ahead, let's work things out, but he also had to go into history in his thinking. I see no other way to solve this problem than to go back to the history of the good 20 years ago. It's an introductory thought. Second. It's obvious, mostly to the right hand, that she didn't want to handle the matter. In Slovenia there were such and different majorityes, such and different coalitions, such and different governments, and we did not resolve this acute problem, which consumed the Slovenian public, to say the least. Certainly, debates in history and at present always cause damage to Slovenia, cause damage to Slovenia's reputation and exacerbate the political atmosphere and have been upsetting the Slovenian public for years with such and different views, certainly diametrically opposed. There was a referendum, I think in 2004, where the citizens said what they said at the time. Above all, the citizens said they did not support the decisions back then. This was also through the opinion of our parliamentary group, the Slovenian People's Party's Group, to support individual treatment or the adoption of a constitutional law that would legitimize this individual treatment. However, we are now in 2013, we are already late in the decision or order, however you wish, of this great Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, and it is time to work together with the people of the Ministry of the Interior who have all these data, to resolve this problem. But I'm gonna go back to history. As I have already said, there have been many attempts and, above all, many figures have been mentioned in this regard, and this has always been a run not only for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, including this National Assembly and every time the government, etc. If I refresh my memory a little bit, if I still have the right data back, Minister Bohinc in 2004 assured himself that only 4 thousand 200 people out of a total of 18 thousand 305 had not yet settled their status. At that time he said, also this, "...about 7 thousand are those who have acquired citizenship and 4 thousand 800 are those who have been granted a permanent or temporary residence permit, but not for a return. About a thousand people were granted permission on the basis of so - called reliefs, while about 4,000,200 people did not have any status. Among the 18,000 persons who were deleted from the register of permanent residents of Slovenia in 1992 who did not check out of their residence, there were only about a thousand 500 persons who were employed in JLA and among them only a small part of the Yugoslav army. That was a quote from the then Minister Bohintz. The Constitutional Court also cited the number of 18 thousand 305 as an explanation for the decision. Therefore, interestingly, in 2009, four years ago, Minister Kresalova brought to the table a number of good 25 000, which the current proposal also takes into account as a determination of the existing situation and proposes compensation for a few more than 10 thousand beneficiaries who already have an appropriate status. There are differences in the number of so-called deleted issues in our parliamentary group and I personally understand that the problem can be dealt with in a variety of ways, so there are differences even in the number of so-called deleted. We have always, once again, stressed that not all should be thrown into the same basket, we must not allow general debates and flat-rate solutions to create new differences and new problems between the beneficiaries themselves. That is why we have supported the individual treatment of each case at all times. At the end of the day, I would say that we must not forget together that the issue must also be seen from the point of view of the events at that time in the context of regulating the situation in our new country when it comes to the cessation of the war for independence. In the new country, all of us, including the current citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as former citizens of the SFRJ, had to legally determine the way and conditions for all new citizens and foreigners in the territory of the new country. We must also look at today's treatment from the point of view, whether we accept it or not, whether Slovenia is in crisis and still lacks the means of stability and functioning, so no one can expect unreasonablely high compensation. I have the impression that most of these are just an opportunity to get as much out of the country as possible, but here I am thinking not only of deleted ones, but of many others. However, we really hope, and I personally hope, that the Minister will make further efforts and try to further harmonise and supplement the law, which will be suitable for further consideration, particularly for the second reading, with all representatives and groups of deleted persons. For this reason, I will also support the law, even though various representatives and advocates of the so-called deleted are addressing us, and they are also urging us not to support this bill if it is unjust to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. And get ready, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u24	Dear Mr President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues welcome! In New Slovenia, we have compassion for those who have been wronged, but indeed for those who have been wronged, so we have always considered and believe now that individual treatment is needed. It is true that at that time the state had many, many tasks and made some mistake, but I cannot believe that the injustice occurred to as many as 25,000 beneficiaries and that this figure had increased from 17,000 to 18000 in the time of Minister Katarina Kresal. I can't believe it. I've heard too many stories about how the neighbors warned themselves about how relatives had warned themselves, how they had arranged themselves, and some didn't want to hear about it, because they didn't believe in Slovenia, because they didn't want to stay here, because some were even against Slovenia, and now we're talking about how great injustice happened to all these people. The blame is also on those who have settled their status and alerted others who have not, and now they want a lot of compensation. Slovenia was more than generous to all those who wanted Slovenian citizenship. Anyone could have got it, the time went by to set things right. Mrs. Potrata, why, when our coalition proposed a constitutional law, why did you then oppose it? Well, I do, and I expect you to tell me. Certainly things have lingered too long, but I insist that the most fair is individual treatment, not just the sharing of compensation all along. I think it's unfair for those of us Slovenians, to the taxpayers and somewhere else, to find a hole in this procedure that is now being used and exploited. This law is a law for the benefit of double profiters, for those who want votes at the expense of this law, not the law for the correction of injustices. I'll mention one case. I happen to have contacts with a company forcibly mobilized into the German army. I'll go back to history, too. 68 years after the end of the war, these people did not receive the compensation ordered by the German state to the former Yugoslavia and cannot prove it in the trials because it is blocked, and therefore they cannot even go to court in Strasbourg because we do not have all the legal options. I would ask those responsible to listen also to those who have suffered great injustice and have always been treated as third-rate citizens, not just second-rate citizens. Unfortunately, such injustices from World War II, which were committed by the Slovenians, are still widespread. As I said, I want the injustices to be settled, not the use and abuse of this law to obtain something that does not belong to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you. The Minister has signed up for this. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I have listened to this first round of discussions, a presentation of the views of the delegations. A few questions have opened up, and I think it's good to explain certain things. You can see that this issue is one of the toughest nuts ever hit by the National Assembly and the government before it. What matters to me is that the decision will be taken to make the law. Too long has been going on, the deadline set by the European Court of Justice has expired in June, so we have been late. I myself have set this law as one of the first priorities, because the judgments of the European Court of Justice must be respected, and I have tried to bring it to your attention as quickly as possible, so that we can accept it by the end of the year and really close this matter. An extremely complex issue, the law-makers here we are crucified between, as you can see, a rather heated political view, a judgment and also a future decision by the European Court of Justice, because the final word will be given to the ECHR in Strasbourg, as well as deleted and their representatives, who, in many ways, cannot agree on each other. There are many traps and obstacles on the way to adopting this law. And that's not weird. The thing is not black and white, the story of deleted is not black and white, so all the time I appeal to the most reasonable debate, because if we screw it too much in one direction or the other, we get an immediate black and white picture and the picture is not black and white. And there's another problem. It's been 20 years. After 20 years of solving the problem, it's much harder than when you go after it when it's time. Why am I saying this isn't black and white? We need to know a little bit, no, we need to know the history of this so-called erasure. I don't think a lot of people know what this is about when they talk about erasure. There's a lot of people talking about these things in their minds. It should be known that in 1991, the rule of law of independence allowed all those who had permanent residence on the day of plebiscite in the territory of Slovenia to acquire citizenship in a very simple way – without fulfilling any conditions. Nationality was on the shelf, everyone could take it off the shelf and in fact Slovenia was here very, I would say, broad-minded, as far as that is concerned. Those who have not opted for citizenship have voluntarily decided to be foreigners in this country. That's what they decided. And he gave this to the Foreigners Act another extra deadline, a two-month deadline to set up a foreigner's status. And there was a mistake. The Constitutional Court and the ECHR have made it very clear, both courts, that the legislator should do more than give these newly created foreigners, who have become foreigners of their own free will, the opportunity to stand in line and obtain a permanent residence permit. The Constitutional Court said they should be granted the continuity of the right to permanent residence. That's the legal story of the erasure. Later laws, the 1999 and 2010 status laws, settled status issues. See, after the 1999 Act, in particular after the amendment, adopted in 2010, practically everyone who at any time at the time of the deletion expressed some interest in residing in Slovenia and obtaining this right could not, for certain reasons, have received anything that he could not obtain any documents from his home country of Bosnia and Serbia. The wars were raging in the Balkans. It could have happened, let's say he left the country, but they wouldn't let him back at the border. It could have happened that, as an illegal alien, he was expelled from the country. We have all kinds of cases here. But anyone who has expressed any interest in living in Slovenia for a period of 10 years after, say, leaving Slovenia or those who have actually stayed in Slovenia, regardless of the deletion, could then have settled the status of permanent residence. The 1999 law, combined with the 2010 novel, opened wide open doors for anyone who wanted to regulate their status. This law was also judged before the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court says that the door needs to be opened more widely, the legislator will also have to do so. But here the status was done in my opinion what was necessary. Anyone who wanted to settle their status could. And it is right that the circle of beneficiaries narrows down to those who have expressed some interest at any stage. Not after citizenship, it was already pasta, but after permanent residence in Slovenia. Nor did the judgment of the Grand Chamber in the case of two beneficiaries who did not express that interest give rise to compensation. Here we stick to the judgment and limit the circle of beneficiaries to those who have settled their status. The status, well, once again, could be arranged by all those who wanted to arrange it at any time. They could have arranged it according to laws that were specifically adopted for that purpose. Some of the applications are still under consideration today. There are still a few hundred applications, because the deadline for these applications expired on 24 June and we have a few hundred more applications to deal with and they will be resolved. All those authorised to remain in these new procedures will fall into the compensation scheme. I think that this circle of beneficiaries is very carefully defined. The next question is the question of the level of compensation. The flat-rate compensation always represents some sort of assessment, including some political discretion, if you will. We have tied it to some of the other compensations that people who have been wronged receive. I said, the compensation of €40 per month is comparable to the compensation of €50 per month, as far as one category of victims of war violence is concerned, these are deported and forced workers. Of course, the question of whether the compensation is high enough can always be open. It's probably not high enough or reliable enough for the deleted. That's what they said. However, the law gives them the opportunity to go to justice and apply individual circumstances in justice, this is an individualised approach that many of you have talked about and I am defending. So in court, they can prove from case to case what damage has happened to them, including mental pain, these are cases, such as those that can be very serious. There are cases of people being separated from their children for the sake of extinction. And they will be able to inflict mental pain before the court and receive a much higher compensation. And the law here helps them to avoid obsolescence. That's a big advantage. Indemnification claims under general bond legislation have already expired, but the law that we are considering today, which we are adopting, excludes this statute of limitations. That's what I'd say. Whatever we are now discussing, who and how this matter has been resolved in the past, would eventually come to the same, colleagues and colleagues. The constitutional law, which I have supported in many ways, for example, ruled out damages, would not help us. We would also receive a judgment from Strasbourg saying that we must pay compensation to those who have been wronged. So in the end, we would be exactly where we are today and when we need to solve this problem. I've been doing a lot of thinking about how to individualize the solution to this problem as much as possible. After 20 years, it is virtually impossible to become more individual than the tendency of this law. If anyone finds a solution to further individualize these claims or these rights, we are open to all suggestions, but I don't think that's possible. We have individualised that we have committed the circle of beneficiaries to the fact that an individual tried to regulate his status, it is true that he expressed some interest, those who had no interest, left Slovenia and did not want to return, nor did they want to reside in Slovenia, but there was no harm done to them, and it would be pointless to pay them compensation. Those who have expressed this interest fall within the circle of beneficiaries. It's the first individualization. However, another individualisation is just through the fact that it has flattened as it is, so limited, and that individual circumstances can then be enforced in individual justices. Once again, the European Court of Human Rights will have a final say. As with all court proceedings, you can never guarantee in advance, or be sure of how the court will decide. No one can guarantee that this compensation scheme will be exactly what the European Court of Justice will convince. I believe that, too. I think there's a good chance that it will. We are already going to Strasbourg tomorrow, where we will be at a political level, this is also on the Committee of Ministers to address this law and somehow we already know which way the conclusions will go. The Committee will welcome the fact that the law in Parliament and that it has been adopted at first reading will call on us to bring the matter to a close as quickly as possible, to impose on us any additional consideration, but not in terms of any drastic changes, but at the same time to insure itself in some way that the final word will be in court. I will also meet with the President of the European Court of Human Rights, once again to clarify as closely as possible all the circumstances of this story of deleted persons, in the hope that we will then get a positive feed back from the European Court. How's this thing gonna go on? Now a number of new lawsuits have been filed and some of them are still standing. Since the ECHR issued this so-called pilot judgment, it has not taken any new action to be taken. After 26. 6. When our deadline expired, we could have done so in theory, but I suppose because our procedure is ongoing, they will wait until the end of the year for us to adopt the law. And then they will decide whether the compensation scheme is sufficient to enable the deleted to properly resolve the problem of compensation in Slovenia, or whether it is not sufficient. In this case, they'll take new actions into consideration. In this case, we will have to react as a government and as a parliament right away. But once again, we're doing this in the best faith with a very good professional team in the best faith that the case in court will be known as appropriate. However, it would be very important for all of us to come together for this solution. It is indeed an opportunity such as the state we are solving a problem to say that this is what we are standing for, that is what we also want to defend in Strasbourg, that we are actually avoiding here as much as possible this argument as possible, what someone has done in the past, in short political accounting. I have to say this about the civil dialogue. I'm a great supporter of civil dialogue and I always involve everyone interested in drafting the law. In this particular case, this is not easy, to put it mildly. The demands are extremely high. Look, I've talked about billions of consequences before, and I never think about it. What was I thinking, exactly? See, the deleted representatives require an extension of the beneficiary circle to all, automatically to all who have been deleted, amounting to 25 thousand 700 and so many people. So also to those who have never expressed any interest in order to settle themselves, citizenship is not, but even to arrange a permanent stay in Slovenia. This will increase our financial implications by 2.5 times. In doing so, they claim that for each month at least €260, as much as cash social assistance, is deleted, at least, this is the starting point, that is 6.5 times as much as the law foresees. It's 2.5 times and 6.5 times, now count. The financial implications of our proposal are 75 million, and now you multiply it by 2.5 and 6.5. They also claim that there is no limit to compensation before the court. We're actually talking about billions here and more than that. Of course, we have time to second-guess to make things right, to complete it, but we must do it very carefully. I'm going to say to myself that I'm standing right now behind what's written in the law. Perhaps it would suggest considering the amount of the court's compensation. Where we are now limited, 2.5, which would further improve this individual treatment. We still have time for this. After all, I am advising you, a very reasonable and cautious approach, and I will also inform you about what was going on and what information I received in Strasbourg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you, Minister. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor below. But prepare yourself, Mr Matevž Frangež. Here you go, Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I will try to stay a little longer in this marriage because I have dealt with this problem in the past in one way or another. In essence, let me say this: I find it rather difficult to listen to some of the debates led by the people who were working in the sandbox at the time of this supposed deletion. And when they say, czech, they received so - called deleted invitations to the congregations of that time, but it was a pretense to destroy their documents. This is what we heard in the introduction of the presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. This is Mr. Trnovšek, with the Minister. He was then head of the Internal Affairs Department in Velenje, if I am not mistaken. And if memory doesn't deceive me, ten years ago, we were talking about all those who fall under this status sending out some invitations to come and get their status sorted out in time before they were wiped out. And they didn't do it. He can tell for himself how many of these cases there have been. The administrative unit of Ljubljana sent 25 thousand invitations – in the time before the deletion I say, "come, the matter costs 300 tolars or something like that, and arrange your status". The Head of Internal Affairs of the Municipality of Ljubljana then reports that 4 thousand people reported to the letter sent to 25,000 people. So much for how the congregations of that time destroyed the documents. That's not true. You can also see in some media when Todorović or someone else shows you a ID card that says "destroyed" and similar stories. Look, cheap propaganda, thank you so much for her! To date, no administrative authority in the Republic of Slovenia or previously in Yugoslavia has ever served such a mark in a destroyed document, but the destroyed documents have been pierced. That's how the document was destroyed. But let's leave this cheap propaganda that some of you are trying to keep taking the case. I'd like to draw your attention to the following things. It was deleted in February 1992, an alleged deletion, which is what I call a transfer from one record to another, but whatever we call it. What happened in 1993, what happened in 1994? At that time, the Council of Europe also dealt with Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and the regulation of citizenship there. The Council of Europe recommended the model of Slovenia to Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia and said: "Look, as they solved in the Republic of Slovenia, it is good, it is solid, let you arrange in a similar way." Because they really did something like the political left that was done in Slovenia, and that is not true. If, back in 1994, 1995 it was considered that the model for resolving the situation in this area in Slovenia was ideal and was given as an example to other countries, as I told the Baltic States, we also need to know that by 1995, 1996 it had not been deleted at all. Let me know if someone can tell me where these 25,000 671 people were. Why didn't any of them come forward by 1996? Not one of them came by himself! He wasn't there. Of course, I'm not saying they weren't wrong. I have myself in my environment, I will tell the relative environment of a person who was born in 1946 somewhere in Sisak, Father Slovenian, Mother Slovene, and in 1948 they came back to Slovenia. And in 1991, of course, Father Slovene, Mother of Slovenia and so on, who would have thought something was wrong with citizenship. But it was because in the civil books of the former Yugoslavia they published in 1947, that was the critical period when this family was there, and that is why this person was a Croatian citizen and she did not know it. Look, there were some other things like this. I don't have a problem with saying that they weren't erased, that there were no injustices, and so on. That's not true. There were and there were injustices. But one more thing has to be said — why were they gone by 1995? Because at the time, all the worst conflicts in the former Yugoslavia were over and it proved that this Slovenia had survived, that it had survived, that it lived, and that it lived better than the countries created in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Of course, it's all about the Slovenian political left, or I can't say it has led civil society organisations, I mean Mrs. Predanovo, Amnesty International and some other organisations to make this a problem. And they made it. And this problem escalated until 2000. In 1999, he was first regulated, as the minister said, by the status of these people. Otherwise, the Constitutional Court reached out and the law was amended. In 2000, I was in charge of drafting a constitutional law in the role of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which we then did not file, because the Bajuk government left early or left with regular elections, but then we came to the conclusion that, at least in the SDS, I think we also proposed a constitutional law in the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia. Look, with constitutional law, we made it very clear that there were injustices, let's fix them individually. In one version, even though the minister says there was no compensation, I have in mind that in one of these versions there was compensation of up to 400 thousand dollars. That would correspond to about a thousand 800 euros today, say. And if we were to endure this now, if that law were to be passed then, but the Slovenian political left did not want to accept it and opposed it, if this law were adopted then, the result would be significantly lower costs than they are today. Indeed, the time for which they would have been entitled would have been significantly less. And secondly, the judgment of the European Court of Justice would not have been at all and would have been settled, nor would they have paid the compensation physically in the amounts provided for there, to all those who have been wronged. So those who claim that the Slovenian political right, at the head of the SDS, based on the number of votes I will say on the forehead, was not inclined to solve this problem are lying. That's not true. The Slovenian political right was the one that indicated the solution since 2000. And I wouldn't be dealing with this problem as a minister or as a current minister if it were accepted at the time. This was not accepted because this corresponded to the Slovenian political left in terms of the number of votes. In the meantime, of course, the number of so-called deleted has grown. Of course it's been growing all along. But look, we prefer to go to this law today, because I also want to make some specific comments to the minister. In the SD's position, we've heard that we should all receive compensation, 25 thousand 671. Look, I've already written one contribution, some media have taken it out, whether it's Santa Claus or something. How do we find the difference between the 10,000 and the 25 thousand 671? Where would he find these people? How can he find them? These are people who have never entered the territory of the Republic of Slovenia after they have been deleted: not by mail, electronic, ordinary or pigeons, if you wish. They have not sent a single written request to the Republic of Slovenia to settle their status. So the minister should find 15,000 of these people or their relatives, take out that big wallet and give them the money — or what? That's bullshit. I think it's normal for the Minister to include in this marriage those people who have settled one or the other status and are here. So it is perfectly normal for the law to cover about 10,000 people. I have one more thing to point out. Look, we all talk, like in the field of justice, sometimes [[Incomprehensible]] a permanent mandate, which is indeed something terrible that the whole of Europe, in particular Germany, knows, blah blah blah blah. It's not like that at all. We speak some truths that become virtual truths, including media truths, and that is not the reality. The Minister also says that we must respect the decision of the Court of Human Rights. I agree with that, and I also support that we respect it and we must respect it. But look, one of the largest European countries, one of the older democracies, if I recall correctly, has been absolutely rejecting the court for ten years and does not want to implement one of the judgments of the European Court of Justice in its legal order. It is, however, that the European Court of Justice has ordered this country to establish its own legal order in such a way that prisoners will have the right to vote. But this country said, "No, we're not doing this!" Ten years later — and what happened? Nothing. The state of Slovenia could have done so, too, but I am not in favour of such a move. But if I'm going in the order of things, maybe this first. We are all now talking about how to correct injustices. My dears, I will say so, we have a large group of people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or former citizens of the former country who have suffered injustice since 1945. I'm talking about that there will be no ideology and there won't be any tweets from the balcony, but we're with the partisans – no, we're not! I'm talking about material damage to World War II. These are our citizens who have been awaiting righteous satisfaction since 1945. If they were consistent with me, then they'd go in order, and they'd say they're the material victims of World War II, because they're waiting as long as they can fix the injustices, because the question is, if anyone else is alive, the heirs are still. But we don't care. We don't care about that, but they're our citizens. However, we are interested in what has been going on since 1995, not since 1992, and I have already justified it. But now that I'm going in order, I would, Minister, just a few things. Article 3, I don't want to go here from being erased, but from the day we leave. I know that the court has ordered you to do so, and I am aware that the court has ordered you to give it from the day of your disappearance. I know that's what it says, but I'd still go to the time someone gave the part. See if anyone's been wiped out 26. 2. In 1992, he gave his role in 1997 — why didn’t he give it earlier? And if he had not given it before, then he was very pleased with those six years elsewhere — or how? I would personally consider going from the day of the application and not from the day of the disappearance. However, I did not understand why the second paragraph in Article 3 is, if the period of deletion lasts even after the entry into force of this Act, unless you are referring to these one hundred or two hundred or so, then that is fine. Now I am troubled by this third article, or I think it is already Article 4. It's okay, the administration procedure is €40, but I'm sure the great eternal will go to my lawsuit. I think the majority will go to court and look for options there, especially since it is 2.5 times more possible to get there in court than in administrative proceedings. So I think most people will go there, I don't know, I'm not sure it could be anything else. Article 7 also, as a consequence, I think we should count from the day of the deletion, counting from the day of the application, in my opinion. The limitation in Article 8 shall be, in my opinion, too long or in any way appointed by us in Article 8, first and second paragraphs. Look, my predecessor, or your minister, Mrs. Kresalova, gave her three-year hands at the time. And from 2010, when this law was last amended, to this year's 25. 6th or when this deadline has expired, three years have passed. And not to think there were 15,000 of them, but a few hundred. A few hundred have come forward, and we now rape the 15,000 according to the SD, and we want to give them compensation and they're nowhere to be found. These three years seem too long to me. I don't know, paragraph 9, whether it must be hereditary or not, think about whether it should be hereditary or not. The lawsuit in three years seems to me to be a long time. I would limit the court to a smaller amount, not 2.5 times, but less. And what I think is most important, and I would really like you to take into account, Minister, in order to add to Article 14, a clause that the State of the Republic of Slovenia will start to pay compensation at a time when economic growth will be, say, 2.5%. It means that when we grow economically, we start to pay back at the time and that each year the country sets out in the budget the maximum amount that can be used for these needs. I think that would be good. Next, I am quite skeptical of all these rights, in particular the right to contribute to compulsory health insurance – that would be paid by municipalities, I do not imagine Jessenic, I do not imagine Velenje, hardly likely, or anything else. There might still be some comment, but just be enough, I'll say, to the law. That's all to conclude. I reject all those who spoke before me, and I will tell all those who follow me, and you will talk about how the Slovenian political right has kept this problem in the drawer, not wanting to solve it, and so on. No, it's the other way around. We wanted to solve the problem with the Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, we proposed appropriate solutions, these people could have had damages for about 10 years because we proposed such a law, we proposed a constitutional law and the Slovenian political left never wanted to adopt it. The deleted also need to be made very, very clear. So much for closure. But I'll get back to you if I have to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Kavticnik has the floor below. Let's get the mags ready. Katarina Hotchevar. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you very much. This fellow who spoke before me is a master of manipulation. He knows how to turn words into words, but when he has a chance to do something and do something, they don't. No, Comrade Gorenjak, Gorenak, well, you can be a Gorenak, but I apologize, Gorenak, so you can't do it. You had a government 2004-2008, and if you wanted, you could have done it. We could adopt proposals that were made in 2003. The Constitutional Court has made clear what should be done, and you have not done so. The Minister said: "The judgment of the European Court must be respected." Yes, of course, but see, the 1991 Charter of Fundamental Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia states: "The Republic of Slovenia guarantees the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms to all persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of their nationality, nationality, non-discrimination, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international treaties in force." And what did we do? We've walked all of this. We have walked or walked through our basic charter. I'm a citizen of this country, and I'm embarrassed about what happened. That we even discussed human rights at the referendum. But this referendum was not triggered by a left, but by a so-called right hand. You know, we can fight people in this country very quickly, not just in this country, but elsewhere, when we provide them with money and some costs that will arise if they arise. And that's manipulation. When we talk about human rights, we must not talk about money, for with no money, injustices committed when we violate human rights are not repaid. No, money can't pay that back. And at least what it would take today is to say, "Sorry, Your Honor, all those who have been wronged to you." And to discuss today again and to stir up this Slovenian public, people who live on the brink of survival, again by talking about how much money will go towards correcting some injustices and so on. No, we should quietly accept, and with the lipstick on our face, sit down, and each of the left and right hands will contribute the most to make this law so that these people will receive back what they are doing. And that is at least, dignity, the right to life where they want, health care, social protection, as well as other citizens in this country, the right to work and the right to express their thoughts freely. That would be necessary. And today, this debate will bring this cruel reality to life again before it saves people who have suffered injustice. Please, Slovenians and Slovenes, we are humanitarian, we are good people, we are helping, we are ready to help and not to fall out within our country and also in Europe different, such that we are not prepared to do good to those who have been wronged. Let us not cause new injustices and new bad feelings to us or to those who have experienced them. That is why this law must be brought to life as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Katarina Hočevar, get Mr. Michael Prevc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again! What the political left wanted, what the political right did, I don't know, and I'm not going to do what anyone said in my debate. However, I know that someone has not done something because otherwise we would not be dealing with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which we must implement or by virtue of its intention to establish a compensation scheme. The story of deleted is, in my opinion, the story of the country's error, but also the sum total of Mauritius' stories is 25,000 people who are not black and white, as the minister has already said. I believe that there will be no war profits under this law because the law follows the interest of the individual who had to demonstrate that he has regulated his status. And also the individual treatment that some of you have pointed out, I think that this law follows, because whoever believes that this law is not sufficient for just satisfaction is going to go to judgment or to a lawsuit where he can prove that he has been harmed more. Indeed, there are different stories of individuals. For example, I was touched by the story of the mother who came to Slovenia with a belly for bread when she was 16 years old, had two children, married, worked here, and applied for citizenship after the whole family became independent. The kids and the husband got her, she didn't. Her battle for citizenship lasted five years. But this lady has shown interest. And what's most cruel in this story is that when she had a baby, she had to turn herself in as a fugitive. If I draw the balance sheet in this compensation story, also the 1995 War Violence Act for Refugees and War Deportees provides for a 50-euro retirement for the month of the violence suffered. As I myself believe that despite all the need for an apology, this requirement of 260 euros per month has been overstated in this financial situation for the country. On the other hand, let me mention the second story of the gentleman who himself admitted that he had not applied for citizenship for a reason, because it was then said that if he took Slovenian citizenship, he would lose the property he had in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. With these two stories, I just wanted to say and present that this is really a matter of different aspects and different fates of these people. It is right, however, that politics concludes this story once, that mistakes have been made and that these injustices have been corrected accordingly. I think this marriage is following this, so I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the word and the Mag is ready. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mr. Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think that this debate on this law is in the right direction and my forerunners, who have gone into the chronology of these events in relation to this issue deleted, are those who know things very well and I have listened to them, not least with interest. So in this debate, I did not feel any dispersion of this issue. The fact is that this is the law we need, as has been stressed several times today. The fact is that there is a problem that politics has not been able to solve in the past. The fact is that this issue has to be closed in some way, and in this way the Minister has also approached the drafting of this law. Perhaps it is right to stress once again what was pointed out by my colleague Preseknik that in the past the Slovenian People's Party has pointed out in all its mandates that this issue of deleted persons must be resolved once and for all. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party has also been very active in the proposal that this issue should be resolved by constitutional law and by an individual approach to the resolution of each individual, but unfortunately this story has not been concluded in this way. Earlier, colleague Kavticnik had read these three parties who tended to solve this problem by constitutional law, saying Slovenian Democratic Party, Slovenian People's Party and Nova Slovenija, czech, "why not then, because you were in the government". But we all know that the constitutional law is one that can only be adopted by a two-thirds majority. Unfortunately, as has been pointed out several times today, the policy is not only here that it has not resolved this problem in the past, but also in the past that policy has made a number of mistakes. And now we're here where we are. Yesterday in the Slovenian Party's Group, we adopted representatives of Amnesty International, who made it clear and also urged us Members to oppose today's adoption of this law or the proposal that this proposal be suitable for further consideration. At some point in my discussion, I understood that the biggest problem with this law was that there was too little compensation, and that the amount of these compensations did not agree. Other concrete proposals and arguments why they feel that this law is not suitable for further consideration, but unfortunately we have not received such a law. What did we promise them? We have said in the Slovenian People's Party that the time has come and that, last but not least, the European Court is the one that requires us to close this problem, to sort of solve it, and therefore we will support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration, because we believe it is. Of course, we do think that there are other options for a change in their interests, so we have promised them, not least, that we will still appeal to the minister, that he will still meet them on this issue and find a solution. But I believe, as the minister himself has said, that the manoeuvre space here is very small. Regardless of whether we focus on the amount of this compensation, as my colleague Mr Preseknik has already said, we are in a period of crisis, which is why this amount of compensation is also appropriate. As we have already announced in the position of the Group of Members, we will today support this law to go forward with the procedure, but we still want there to be another solution in these follow-up procedures in order to get close to those to whom this law is intended, that is, in fact, deleted, that we will be as close to a consensus with them as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Vogrina is not the next debater, so it is Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you so much for the word and a nice hello to you all! Today we have heard quite a few interesting debates, which are more or less resembling a number of over-discussions. However, what I regret and hear too little here is that at least someone would seriously regret what actually happened. And you want it or you don't want it, even though we have a marriage before us, we're really gonna have to talk about why it happened, because pretending that it didn't happen is just not going to happen. I must say that today I have heard at least two debaters speaking in the direction of some silly nonsense that simply has no serious basis for serious discussion in this temple. That's a few expressions. Like "doom delete." I'm asking you nicely, what kind of alleged deletion? Scram! He's been erased. We need to talk about this, not about the alleged deletion. And the second thing I've heard lately, the words they're called "exterminated" and "justifiedly erased." I'm asking you nicely, what justifiable deletion?Oh, my God! There's no justification for being erased! They were just erased. And here we have one serious problem with ourselves. In spite of the fact that the Constitutional Court has made it very clear what is right and what is wrong with the European Court of Justice making it very clear, some would still like to justify certain acts. And what's most interesting is they didn't even do it. But they would still like to identify themselves with those acts that they did not actually do. It's an incomprehensible act at all, but I'm not gonna deal with it anymore. But it is important, very important, how we view these things in Parliament. One is what you keep telling these benches that some kind of catharsis has to happen. This catharsis must also occur in this act. And that, at the very least, is what people expect, an apology – an apology for what happened in the first place. The other thing is, of course, a document that we are talking about today, which in some way will end this story at the level of some morality, ethics and some human dignity, so that Slovenia can move forward into its future with some specific guidelines to which it will refer – and these are human rights. The Court has made the following very clear, and this is why this is so much more incredible. Dr. Dragica Wedam Lukić, former President of the Constitutional Court, said very clearly, quote: "The deletion was not complete." So someone did it on purpose, for some purpose, with some premonition. And the documents we all have at our disposal, of course, no one is talking about it today, say that it has been found that either something will be saved, something will be gained, but in the end we will all pay together 10 times more than what we thought would be saved. And it didn't come up with anything. Except that we have acquired a very dishonorable reputation — if you call it your reputation. The next thing I know, it's very important. Despite the fact that this law will solve certain issues, it must already be accepted in order to be able to comment on the law itself, which the Minister also calls for, and says it makes sense to say how much more individualise only the issue, even though he himself thinks it is the best thing to deal with. Of course, there are some dilemmas and questions that Mr Prevc was talking about when he spoke about the organisation of Amnesty International. I personally have a question for the minister, and it is likely that in the law itself, this question will also provide for how those who were born to those who were wiped out were born between heaven and earth. And they're gone because they weren't anywhere. Although they were in Slovenia, they were not in Slovenia – who understands this? Maybe just those who say, in an unknown place, time and so on, maybe they understand what it looks like. But at the principle level, these people actually have no rights today. They don't exist. Even under this existing law, they are not able to regulate matters and are not granted a right. Perhaps there are some such questions that need to be clarified in this law. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law and to clarify these issues further. The next thing that seems very important to me is that at some point when the law is passed, and I expect that from the authorities of our country, someone has to apologize to these people. Lately, I see we're all just talking about this compensation. I'm sure it's not all in compensation. I am sure that it would have been better in this country if, long before the European Court of Justice, the government, at least those who could or who tried to resolve this issue, had taken at least this step to make excuses for these people – what everyone expects all victims to do. But no one does that because they want to fast-wrap it into some marriage, into some act, and simply forget that it happened. Of course it's understandable. All people are ashamed when they do something that's inhuman. And I'm ashamed that this even happened. The representatives of Amnesty International, as Mr Prevc spoke about, have also been with us, in our Group of Members, and have presented their views to us. We're all looking, and we've gotten used to it in this House, everyone's looking with their eyes when someone's explaining something to us, and he understands it as he thinks he's understood what's legitimate and totally justified. But given the fact that they went through the parliamentary groups and said the same things, I must say that I understood certain things from the representatives of Amnesty International a little differently than you presented it, Mr Prevc. In particular, they pointed out that it is reasonable for certain things to be corrected in this law to the extent that they can also be regulated on a status basis. They even made precise suggestions on how to fix this, and they gave them to you if you wanted to take them. And what's most important is that some people now want to show in front of the world that it was kind of good that it happened. That is why I must say that, unlike Mr Gorenak, who says that he rejects everything in advance and everything else in return for whatever anyone says, I reject any attempt to legalize the work of 1991. And he is ashamed of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, who at that time allowed this to happen, in an illegal way. And it can be a shame for anyone who advocates this today and says it's justified and I don't know what else. I'm ashamed because if it was possible once in this country, it would be possible again. And I'm afraid of the people who will come to power to do so today who are defending it. So I hope, Minister, that this will never happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek is next, followed by Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I'm not really surprised at the left-wing population of my predecessor. On this subject, the left has been parasitic all the time and has been successful, and in many times the unheard slandering of their own country, which has not been internalized by many, has not been identified with it. Of course, I'm in favour of this case closing once. For this reason, in fact, every time a minister is in some way I understand that he has to finish. It is absolutely true, however, that the left has not been absolutely interested in all past years, that this matter is concluded and resolved and that actual injustices are corrected. No one will convince me that in a crowd of 25,000 people, everyone has been wronged. Here are the categories of people who have suffered injustices referred to by Mr Gorenak, Mrs Hočevareva, and I myself have helped some of them in particular in that mandate when I was first elected as a Member in the period 1996-2000. When they didn't even know it could happen to them. They did not feel like strangers to sign up when the law on foreigners gave this opportunity. And you were the victims, and they have to face compensation. But no one will convince me that such as Mr Todorovic, who slandered this country, is abnormal and I do not know what further expressions of shame we have been ashamed of. And it should be a shame that such people who have spat on the state are no longer admitting these countries, because I do not know what kind of contempt a valuable country is, a temporary phenomenon that will die the next day after its establishment. I am convinced that that law on foreigners was relatively normal optional legislation, which must be made by all emerging countries or those countries that change their borders. Italy has also made optional legislation for citizens who were previously in territory that was no longer Italian. These are normal processes in countries. And that law also gave hands for the application of citizenship. And I have to say to the late magician. Fatak, who was Secretary of State at the time, I think he also explained many times what they had done so as not to cause injustice at the time. I trust him more than those who have parasited on this matter and slandered Slovenia from Ljubljana to Brussels and Strasbourg. I think that he was wronged when many were unjust to him, to his honest efforts, to be an honest official of this country, to be sick so early and to be sad today among the dead. Many deserve that this happened to him, that he was then under stress. However, he was one of the best officials or officials in the administration in this country. And those political circles that are most responsible for the tycoons around businesses and banks in this country have produced this theme forever in order to make a smoke screen so that what happened in banks and businesses can happen, and now I don't know how much it pays. And let him repay with real opportunity those who have been wronged. And I also admit that some have been wronged, but not Mr Todorović, who was in the same factory as I was employed, at the time I did not know him, and we co-workers tell a number of stories about how he then took away his severance and didn't know what he was using this country for ever and ever and ever and lived up to the dignity of this country with his statements. And when Mr Möderndorfer spoke about the apology, I am sorry for the state's excuse for those who have suffered real injustices. It's just from a party that I asked the president on Twitter to attend Sunday's ceremony in Ormož to follow Angela Merkel's footsteps, because there's no excuse for your option. Think of it. 350 children were ripped out of their mother's arms in peace after the war and moved to Ormož to a concentration camp for children from 1 to 5 years old. Nothing like this has ever happened in Europe. And the representative of the authorities is not prepared to bow to this incredible crime and apologize on behalf of the state, as Willy Brandt did in Auschwitz when he kneeled there on behalf of Germany, the German state. And they're gonna tell who to apologize to?Oh, my God! You are not prepared to respect the basic foundations of humanity. But there was no better chance! And that's why Merklov won, triumphed triumphantly because man is in his place. And talking about how he was lying back there, how to deal with these people, is outrageous and unworthy. Optential legislation was amended to the best of its ability at that time, after the best of considerations. And to report to the Slovenians that we are intolerant – I say that in the territory of the former Yugoslavia we are among all the nations in this area the most tolerant nation. That's what I'm saying. It is only in this country that one is allowed to make fun of one's own country. Do you think that you, too, would be many of those who consider themselves victims when they walk with Yugoslav flags at the Stanovnik rally – so that we can do it in Croatia, Serbia or elsewhere? Nah, we couldn't do that! And that's why you don't acknowledge intolerance to the Slovenian people. So, once again, injustices should be corrected, but it would be a significantly better solution when constitutional laws were proposed, because the treatment would be individual and long ago corrected injustices, including financial ones. And you've been parasitizing because you needed this political space for propaganda, for attacks on Slovenians, for Slovenian people, as if it were intolerant, criminal, talking or anything. I think it's too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, for her Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! Many words have been spoken here today, and I will touch on two matters which coincide with each other and relate to the independence of Slovenia. Erased on one side and war invalids on the other. Today, you are calling on and reminding government Members that we must be united, just, that we must have a stronger sense of human dignity, that we are discriminatory and say that an apology is needed. Colleagues from the coalition! Where you were 14 days ago when we were in the National Assembly at the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs dealing with the War on Disabled Persons Act for Slovenia. Once again, we were talking about the war on the disabled in the war on Slovenia to regulate the status of the disabled. You voted that the law was inappropriate. Mr. Möderndorfer said he was ashamed today. I've been ashamed for 14 days and nothing moves. It would be moral-ethical to make things right. Yeah. Even the cases of war invalids. And since both matters coincide with the same period of time, the period of our independence, I cannot help but read the answer to the law on disabled persons of war and quote the words of the Minister for Labour and Family, cut short. I quote: "At the same time, the exercise of disability status based on the disease of time of military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 due to time distance is problematic." I could say, those are my words, that the same thing happens in deleted persons and that it also applies to them. And if I continue with the quote: "...because after the two decades since the end of aggression on our country, there has been a difficult finding of causality between disease and war effort or war events that are supposed to cause health problems." Here, too, the identification is difficult with regard to the regulation of status, information and all that. This thing's a long way from here, too. And once again, I will stress, I quote, the quote: "This is actually a long period of time, and we really would not want it to come out again, as if we did not want to recognise these rights. It is that it is simply not possible to prove this causal link and that this could also raise other issues related to it, with certain deadlines, and raise another question of some other groups." This does not apply to other groups. It only applies to deleted persons because they sought their right in the European Court of Justice. Then, to these less than ten war invalids, there is no other appeal than Strasbourg to the European Court. That's really sad. Mr Kavtičnik, you said that Slovenians are good people, humanitarian people, so in New Slovenia we will reintroduce the law, and here I expect your humanitarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Ambrožich, after him Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, all present, colleagues, colleagues! I agree with the President that each vulnerable group deserves its space under the sun and the possibility of enforcing the correction of injustices or the exercise of the rights that follow. If we lived in an ideal world, there would be no wars, there would be no sorrow, there would be poverty, there would be hunger, everyone would find the love of their lives, and there would be no erasing of what had happened to them. If I could make a little joke, we could find in computer language that, despite the deletion of the basic text, there is still the possibility of searching for data on a hard drive or in a backup record. And so I see today's consideration of the bill's proposal, which is barely the first stage of its journey through the legislative process. That is why I will start by saying that I will support it, but I will closely monitor its completion through all the process and any possible corrections or additions to which Mr Minister has also called. I would also like to say that even Slovenians, through history and not so far back, were foreigners in some other surrounding countries and also suffered bitter experience and loss of rights and later the country, with appropriate legislation, wanted to compensate them for this suffering. Not so far back, unfortunately, we have witnessed in the previous government that these rights have also been or have been tried by those exiles and some other vulnerable groups. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that everyone who has been wronged, whether with a soft "c" or with a firm "c", deserves the end of his grief. I myself consider this law, as well as the following measures to be taken in this direction, to address this 20-year open issue properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrožich. It is Mrs Eva Irgle, followed by Mr Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr. Secretary! What we have heard today from many of the coalition types on pieta, on humanity, on human rights issues, let me explain that on Sunday, as President of the Commission on Petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities in Ormož, I attended the celebrations of the monument, which was dedicated to 39 children who suffered from revolutionary power after the war. 39 innocent children were left to die or to die. But none of the highest peaks in this country attended this ceremony, showed a pathetic attitude towards this event, and did not condemn the crime committed against innocent children. Only when we know for ourselves how big a crime has been committed after the war for innocent people will we be able to create a common future even more easily on such issues as we have today on the agenda. To return to the subject of today's debate, to the issue of deleted. One of the former interior ministers, Mr Dragutin Mate, explained several times during the time when he was Internal Minister that Slovenia had adopted a constitutional law after its independence, including the Citizenship Act and the Aliens Act. In the former country, this issue was very specific, since there was antagonism of the Republic. Regardless of the nationality of the Republic, this was sufficient for the right to vote. After independence, it was necessary to inform citizens of Slovenia and all those who had settled their citizenship and all others in the records of foreigners. This is what the former interior minister has repeatedly stressed and also recalled. At the time, the law stipulated that all citizens of other republics of the former Yugoslavia should regulate their status. Let me explain that the administrative units also called for this at the time, and not least, if you want, the former then president of the country, Mr Milan Kučan, also called for this. Moreover, not only did the President of the State call for the status quo to be regulated, but great advertisements have also called for this. And these ads clearly stated that the key time frame is coming when either citizenship or other status needs to be regulated. Of course, 90% of people of other nationalities followed this call. It's a clue. But there are still 10% of people left who have not done so for various reasons. Some have moved away, some have calculated politically, among other things they have explicitly rejected citizenship and have not arranged it, although Mr Milan Kučan himself has asked them to do so. And because of these things in the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time, all this time when we are solving these issues, I have also dealt with them in particular as a member of the Human Rights Commission, and we stand in the position that the problem of the deleted should be resolved individually and not in the so-called package. My fellow Members have also initially explained in the position of the Group of Members that injustices must be corrected for those who have been wronged. There's no dilemma here. Just as we should have corrected the injustices of those 60 years ago, we are still unable to do so today. We are not even capable of condemning such cruel things as the taking away of something that is most sacred, that is life. We're not in a position to condemn this together. This is also the main trauma of this Slovenian nation, and therefore we also have great problems today, in the present time, and we will also be drawn to the future, because we did not know how to clear up the issues that were crucial to the national essence. Only after we clear this up will we be able to breathe more full lungs into the future. That is why, years ago, we also proposed a constitutional law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which I thought was the most just solution at the time. But then it was calculated, the left-hand side was manipulated and calculated. You have not been able to prove that this is the best possible solution, and the most just, and today we would not be in the situation we are in. Today, however, the situation is what Europe is like for us to be told by the European Court of Justice that this needs to be regulated. And I agree with that. But we could have done this in a much more elegant, even more just way at least 10 years ago. But at the time we did not know how to agree, because, as has already been said, the left hand side of the issue was largely politically calculated. I and the rest of the Group of Members, as stated in the position, will not vote against because I believe that the decision of the European Court should be respected. However, I think that these matters, or today the country itself, could be less embarrassed if these things were resolved 10 years ago in a way that we have always advocated in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Chehovin, behind him is Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! The story of deleted is actually a story about a nearly 21-year-old attempt to manipulate and deny guilt. All of this has been confirmed directly by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, now also by the European Court of Human Rights, on the basis of the fact that non-constitutionality has been deleted twice directly and 7 times indirectly. Regrettably, they have been used in the past for political struggle between various political parties, and the public debate has been linked to them under the political and legal culture. Sadly, some such matters are being heard today. The facts in this regard are quite clear. No excuse, no fine-tuning of these things can lead to salvation. The compensation itself cannot fully fill this gap that we have made in the violation of human rights. Today I would not talk about other subjects, because I am sure that this national assembly will take advantage of it, so that we will hear the same subject several times. In fact, I would limit myself to this and the fact that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights has clearly established that Slovenia violated the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in 1991 and 1992 in three points: the right to privacy and family life, Article 8; the right to an effective remedy, Article 13; and the prohibition of discrimination, Article 14. With regard to discrimination, I would only mention that this was due to the fact that at that time all other countries of Europe or the world, or citizens of those countries that were then in Slovenia, were able to regulate the status of permanent residence, while this was not possible for people of the former common country. So from the former Yugoslav republics. In this respect, discrimination has been committed. Thus, the judgment of the European Court of Justice does not mean anything but a conviction of the policy to be deleted, and unfortunately of the time Demos, as well as those led by the political parties. The Court of Justice even stated in its judgment that the deletion was not in line with the standards of a democratic society. One of the judges, whether coincidence or not, even wrote in a separate opinion that the actions of the then responsible authorities should be taken by law enforcement authorities, or against those responsible should be prosecuted. And that's probably true. At the final stage, we know who was there when this law was passed. We know who gave the instructions. And it is also known that these instructions at the lower levels were either very rigid or selective. There was also a case where someone was not erased if he knew someone to lubricate them properly. That's what the facts will cover up sooner or later. Nevertheless, in fact, the deleted give us now the opportunity to definitively close this trauma, which burdens us, for the past, present and future generations, and to show respect for the Slovenian Constitution, for the United Nations Charter on Human Rights and for the people who have been wronged. And if we are able as a country to close this chapter of Slovenian history, people as politicians may believe that we can also solve other traumas that divide the Slovenian people, not abuse them for narrow party, daily political interests and goals. In the Group of the Positive Slovenia, we are therefore determined that the injustices will be definitively rectified in the shortest possible time, and that is why we will support the proposal for a law at this stage. As a new party on the political scene, not only we, including the Civil Gazette, are certainly not responsible as a party to the deletion itself, but we will unfortunately have to bear the greatest burden in providing the means to remedy these injustices. With regard to the law itself, I might add that, in our view, this same compensation should not go beyond the compensation given to victims of war violence and which has already been adopted in the law, but, of course, we do not think that it is the same by the representatives who have been erased, that they do not want or that they have refused dialogue, because only through dialogue, conversation and coordination, among other things, about the dynamics of compensation, because this dynamic will probably be such that it will have to be passed on for several consecutive years, that it is not right to reject it in such a way. Only in dialogue and in some common agreement can these things be overcome. We believe that the law as such is appropriate at this stage, we also have some comments, we will consult further, and we also expect appropriate additions or amendments to the law to be made in further consideration. And once again, we support the law at this stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, followed by Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the extremely difficult topic is ahead of us, we have not been able to solve it for more than twenty years simply because, in this case, politics has not been unified. Also the current Minister, who is not here at the moment, Dr. Gregor Virant was also a minister in 2005 and we had, and Nova Slovenija was in the coalition at the time, within the 2004-2008 mandate, we had a sincere intention to solve the definitive problem of the so-called deleted by constitutional law. With constitutional law, among other things, to invite the opposition, especially the then LDS and SD, to adopt a solution with a two-thirds majority that would certainly be good for citizens and also for so-called deleted. Now the European Court of Human Rights has actually given us a slap as a punishment because we have simply not been able for twenty years – and we are still unable, colleagues and colleagues – to unify ourselves on the solution of this issue. And this penalty falls just at a time when Slovenia is on public finances as far as the economic and social situation at the bottom as it has never been. The then authors of the constitutional law, I spoke earlier about the fathers of this constitutional law, now I will name them, Dr. Miro Cerar, Dr. Rajko Pirnat, Dr. Miha Juhart and Dr. Tone Jerovšek. The eminent names of Slovenian law, but apparently they were not good for the opposition at the time, and neither were their products. Comrade Jože Kavtičnik mocked the citizens who threw the so-called System Act on Deleted in 2004 at the referendum. People at 94% said he wasn't good. 94% of the participants in the referendum were not satisfied with the solution. And I don't know if we have the right or if anyone has the right to ridicule these citizens for their decision today. Surely it is our task, colleagues and colleagues, to remove injustices, and therefore we look back to the past because injustices have occurred in the past. And there's a lot of them. And let's not forget the material injuries of World War II, they're still waiting for the reparations of war damage. Right in our first term 2004-2008. Of course, it was a conjunctura, it was money, and some agreement was reached with these victims to at least partially compensate for the material damage suffered by the invaders during World War II. But at that time, in 2008, I remember vividly the sound of this injustice being rectified. This burden, colleagues and colleagues, too, remains on our shoulders. Unfortunately, this association of material damages cannot carry out as strong a media campaign as the deleted ones can. Let me remind you that after World War II, right after 1945, I think there were about 250,000 of these material damages, which is exactly what we see in the Slovenian archives that demanded the reimbursement of war damage. And the countries where the invader came from in World War II, the former states of SFRJ, have at least partially recovered that damage; we do not know where that money went. Even in the days of Pahor’s government, the political will — that can be said by former fellow Member Anton Anderlič — was a political will to at least partially compensate those victims. However, the then coalition decided to use this money to solve the economic crisis. My friend Jani Möderndorfer said he was ashamed. Yeah, he said it right. I'm sure it's because he probably threw an invitation for the Sunday memorial ceremony at the homicidal cemetery. This was widely discussed by colleague Eva Irgle. And I really regret not seeing anyone there from the current governing structure. Nobody! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Dr. Jelusich, for her mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Nice hello to you all! I should like to start by saying that I support the proposal for a compensation law for persons who have been deleted from the permanent population register, although I am aware that this law will also have to be supplemented considerably later. It is important to know, however, that this is one of the laws that slowly correct the course or injustice that took place in 1991 and 1992. I say "slowly" because in Slovenian politics, however, it is slowly becoming aware that this injustice is silent or that it has to be recognised out loud. We are also assisted by the Constitutional Court by its two decisions and the European Court of Human Rights _ thus stressing the recognition that injustice has been committed and that such injustices against human rights must also be compensated. In its judgment, the European Court of Justice has pointed out that we have in our legal order a systemic flaw which has led to the denial of the right to compensation for infringement of their fundamental rights. I draw particular attention to this conclusion of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights because it has been repeatedly mentioned here that Slovenian society is a human society and that we are Slovenians. I accept this claim for a large number of our citizens and citizens, many volunteers who, today and in the past, will certainly also help people in distress in the future. However, I would not accept this claim as a large part of the policy that has adopted legislation that has led to the removal from permanent residence of one part of the population of citizens residing in the territory of that country and would not accept this claim because this policy has not been prepared to systematically remedy these shortcomings from its legal order. The European Court of Justice had to warn us in particular that this required a special law. And today we are essentially in this law that is trying to remedy this systemic flaw. It will follow the third step, by regulating compensation for individuals. Some argue that you are opposed to regulating the reimbursement of damages fully erased. But none of these eraseds will get this right on their own. For this right, then, for compensation, there will be a lot more to be done. Not only did he take care of the supplementary decision or that he applied for a supplementary decision, that he could get a recognised right to enroll in our permanent population register back, but he would be dealt with individually, even when it comes to the issue of compensation: how much he would get, whether he would get it for himself, for his family members, for the children and so on. All of this will continue after the individual treatment process and not all of them – slightly less than 25 thousand – just like that. In doing so, I would also point to the fact that many of you have highlighted and cited individual cases. This is that some of these deleted have also acted against the interests of the independent state of Slovenia. I've already talked about this problem in this House once. I agree that these were also among the deleted. However, the problem is that the Slovenian state of law has failed to carry out appropriate procedures to condemn these people by means of prosecution. It was necessary to gather evidence against individuals, to bring them before a court, to convict them, and to determine on this basis what rights of residence in this new country were or should be forfeited. The problem is that most of these people have not been identified by our country or have not been systematically tried to prove that they were working against the country. And now, of course, we have a problem trying to criminalize 25,000 people because of maybe hundreds or more of these individuals, which is incorrect. Maybe, I don't know, this country is capable of doing this kind of procedure backwards. However, I think that she will be in great trouble because, even with the 25,000 who have been erased, she has also taken people into the public service, and after 1992, who have never had Slovenian citizenship, despite all because they have either secretly cooperated with Slovenian independents or, as one of our colleagues has said today, greased the system and then got a job, even a state service. That's why it's gonna be hard to look for justice and make convictions for back. Some colleagues mentioned today that the left was not ready to finish the issue deleted. But if we look at the periods in which legislation was adopted, which, however, tried to correct the injustice done to the deleted, then we will see that this is in the periods of time when they were in power, say, to this left or left-handed government: in 2009, 2010, and this year 2013. You're also saying they're among the deleted people who slandered the country. Many today, our citizens, including those who have not been erased, are slandering the Slovenian state. Many also do so by demonstrating the total incompetence of our government, our countries and calling for the help of the troika, saying that the solution is only in coming to our aid from international monetary and financial institutions. And I have a feeling, I would hope to claim that these people are also slandering the country. Anyone who is dissatisfied with the functioning of this country and this policy is slandered by their own. And one last thing I'd like to point out. is an important message that you bring to this meeting and that you link it to the question of our country's attitude towards human rights, and that is to participate in the ceremony in honouring the murder of innocent people in Ormož after the end of World War II. In this regard, I would like to say that I respect those who attended this ceremony, I am joining in on this conviction, and at the same time I must say that the celebrations devoted to the murder of innocent people in and outside our country have been quite significant lately. I would like to remind you of the ceremony that took place on Rab on 14th this month and was dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the concentration camp on Rab. There were interned about five thousand Slovenes and Croats, Slovenes from the area of White Krajina, Notranjska, Dolenjska do Stična, from the area around Kolpa, Osilnica from New Kota, the valley of Draga and around there. These people were families, women, also pregnant, old people, children, innocent people from the point of view, we'll say, participating in a national liberation fight. It was their fault that they lived in the territory of which the Italian State thought at the time that it was necessary to clean it up, that these people should be destroyed in a concentration camp, so it left them without food or water on Rab. And of these people, of these five thousand people, we have today, after the 1970s, known only a thousand 490 names. I'd be happy to have those of you who say you were at the Ormozh ceremony attend this ceremony. Especially because the lists for the deportation of these Slovenians, their families, their children, were made by Slovenian priests and Slovenians in village guards. We will also have to condemn such crimes together, even though it is a time before 70 or 60 years ago or 20 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The next one would be mag. Jana Jenka, who's not with us. Then Richard Branisel, who isn't. It's mag. Majda Potter. There's a mag behind her. Branko Grims and then the government as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A lot of things have been said today, and I want to respond to some of them. It was said that we were dealing with the past. But there's no future without the past. But we're talking about these things today. And since I have been monitoring everything that has been going on with the deleted since 2002, we could talk long and wide about what could have been heard in the House of the National Assembly regarding the deleted. So justly, some have sounded that they would even believe that they were willing to admit that the wrongs had been done, and then in the next moment, they have already said something that denied it. Even the fact that the deleted had a strong media campaign. And that's what the gentleman said before about 94% saying people against the law on deleted persons. If the media campaign were really that good for deleted, then we wouldn't be talking about such a referendum outcome. There's only so much about it. Some mentioned the positive feelings associated with humanity and other things, and then in the following deleted they called the war profiteers and the political left they saw the gathering of political points. I have to tell you that in all these years, 11 of them are now, as I deal with deleted, deleted representatives, those with whom I have spoken have never been satisfied with any of us. Justifiably. Since it took so many years for the European Court of Human Rights to confirm what the Slovenian Constitutional Court had said twice, people were not prepared to accept that the removal from the register of permanent residents was unfair, and the law on foreigners, which I also spoke of in the opinion of the parliamentary group, was discriminatory, because it treated those who came from the countries of the former Yugoslavia differently. And here, for the sake of historical memory and truth, it would be necessary to remember a well-known, unfortunately already dead policy, which at the time also saw the opportunity to rely more heavily on Slovenian nationality for the population and citizenship in the country of Slovenia. I tried to be politically correct, and I didn't say anything else that would hurt anyone. But the fact is, these people have been treated differently than citizens from other European countries, as has already been said today. And what I think is particularly important to stress is the comparison with other groups of the population or citizens and citizens of Slovenia, or with only the inhabitants and inhabitants of Slovenia, which are erased from all others, is that it has done the wrong thing for those who have been erased, this country, my country – Slovenia. But the faults that some have previously spoken about are the injustices that have been committed in history, so nothing less, but every injustice is an individual injustice, even if it is done by the state, because it is an individual’s experience. Therefore, we who have not suffered such injustices have no right to judge which injustice is worse and whether something is well - solved or not. Once again, this was a systemic injustice, the law was passed, an amendment was tabled that most of Demos then refused to accept, so please let me understand, and this is the greatest manipulation that I have heard from at least three of the parliamentary groups again today. The talk is about individual treatment. Yeah. How does one want to prove permanent residence if not with his name, surname, and address? This is an individual treatment. But what you don't understand is, if it was a systemic injustice, this injustice needs to be corrected on a systemic level. However, the solutions are such that each individual can enter these solutions of marriage. And if they were correct, and if they were to read correctly the reasoning that Minister Katarina Kresal had in the National Assembly, they would know precisely that it was an individual hearing, that it was a matter of proving all these things. Only some people don't hear because they don't want to hear it. And now I am deprived of the opportunity to explain Mrs Novak, in which the constitutional law is different from the law we have adopted. All those who defended the constitutional law were essentially defending him with some subterranean that constitutional law could not go to a referendum and that no complaint could be made against the constitutional law, so to speak, which would result in a successful decision. I thank Minister Gregor Virant, and I am sorry that he is not here now, who rightly said that the constitutional law, which was written by excluding compensation, would not hold judgment in the European Court of Human Rights, because Article 26 of the Constitution of Slovenia states that the injustices to which anyone is responsible should be corrected. This is Article 26 of the Constitution. I'm especially warning you about him. But what we said was that Mr Grimes mentioned me, too. Yeah. The law that we adopted at the time in 2010 talked about the status issues. It wasn't a marriage that said compensation. Take a look at him, where there is no talk of compensation, where no compensation is provided or any other material right that an individual may exercise. That's what this law does. And only this law long after the deadline set by the European Court of Human Rights has passed. I will not forget the words of some who have spoken so resiliently about the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. What they were saying at the time! I would like to quote Mr Gorenak, who I do not know how many times she has said that there is no need to settle anything in relation to the deleted, because everything has been cleared. I think that Mrs Opec said in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group that this is now a final solution. You know, finally in this world, you know what's just final? [[...]] Just death. And to say that any marriage is so good that it doesn't leave any splinter open, through which there's more to be arranged in the marriage, that's nonsense. This is because the law that we have adopted in 2010 and which Europe has also been waiting for, whether we will accept it or not, and how we will adopt it, even though it has been prepared in cooperation with civil society, has not resolved all cases. And a little after the adoption of the law, some who also warned about where those solutions were not good enough and whose situations were left unresolved. That is why I am convinced that this law, which we will decide today whether to stop the first hearing or not, is on the right track, and the representatives of civil society have said that some of the solutions are, and have also acknowledged to Minister Virant that some of the solutions in this law are so good that they are pleased to say so. However, they said that there are many things in this law that could be improved. And that's what I was talking about. It is difficult for those who have been erased to accept the claim that something could have been enforced under the Aliens Act if even those who wanted to acquire citizenship were among those who have been deleted, but could not, who wanted to regulate the status, have been unable to do so. I ask you kindly, all those who so advocate individual treatment, or who would not be fair to all of us, yet allow the possibility that when we speak of deleted ones, we will also allow the possibility of individual differences. If you claim that they are not all the same, then there are actually differences between them. And these differences, based on the compensation law, will also be detectable in the amount of compensation, given how long they have claimed the injury. I am sorry that in the views of some groups the thought has not moved in any way, nothing has happened for some, some still speak so-called deleted, and the 2010 law has introduced a deadline deleted from the permanent population register and in short speaking deleted. Some would prefer to call them so - called, and they would like to be called. A lot has happened, but once again, if it hadn't happened in February 1992, then citizens and citizens, even in these difficult times, should not have to think about where we're going to get, how we're going to get and how we're going to make amends. I would be most pleased that this injustice would not happen and that nothing should be returned to us. But, Minister, now that you have joined us, I have commended you on this law at least twice, and I appreciate your efforts, because you were already in another coalition relationship, but which failed to do so in time to draft the law imposed on us by the European Court of Human Rights. You didn't want that, and it was said that you didn't have to. That's it. It's political will. And those who talk about political manipulation and, once again, about getting political points – what are they? It's not about citizens and citizens, it's about the citizens' right to vote, it's about the status they call permanent residence. And still talking about exploitation, about abuse, look, even after that, it was said that dual citizenship should be taken away from those who were from the former country, now I will say from the countries of the former country. Nothing bothered people that they had Argentine and Slovenian citizenship, but they were disturbed by, for example, having Serbian and Slovenian citizenship. And you know, when we call this fact into our minds, then at least what I can say is incorrect to say is that the speculators have been wiped out. I will end with a positive thought, namely, the European Union has given scientists 150 000 individuals, 150 000 euros in prizes for their knowledge that have helped to develop the European Union. And in particular, let me remind you that among the addressees or winners of these awards, not only are technical intelligence, not only engineers and science-oriented scientists, but also those who have helped to raise awareness and promote the exercise of human rights. And let us keep this before our eyes when we deal with laws like those of today. In the first reading, I will support the law, but, of course, I expect that the law will continue to see some changes and that Minister Virant will also take into account what, after all, at the conclusion of his supplementary reasoning, he has announced that they will also have the last word of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights for this law. And since he is going to present this law tomorrow, I certainly hope that the guidelines he will hear there will also be proposed or certainly proposed in the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have two wishes for a replica. Mr Jožef Jerovšek and Dr. Gorenak spoke first.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u54	Actually, I have two replicas. Just for the last one, my colleague Jelusichev, I ran out of the office too late. Her colleague Poturat spoke very insidiously about how some of the injustices which, according to her terminology, were a definitive solution to death, because her idol probably, Mr Kardelj, was a master of decrees for a definitive solution and they all went through the Residents' table. Mr Stanovnik probably wrote them when he was secretary-general. And she said there were individual injustices, but here for erased is a systemic injustice. Mrs. Potrata, the genocide that started in 1945 is always a systemic solution, without a system is impossible. And I'm asking you to look past it for once. It's time. And secondly, a colleague of Jelusichev, who will essentially be an affirmative replica. I listened respectfully to her surviving so much that she condemned the final solution to the baby that happened in Ormož at the time. It is different from the ideology and values of Lukšič's party, although there is a member. Regarding what she suggested well-intentionedly, how we must attend these Memorials as well. I have to say I got sick on Sunday, otherwise I'd go to Ormozh, but I wasn't there. But that I went to all the cities as a messenger, even in Rab, and last year in Rižarna and Bazovica, I even spoke, and in Graz. And in our parliamentary group, I plead and advocate that when we lay our wreaths, because they perceive us as being a collaborator side, even though we are of the Partisan species, we must go primarily to those like Rab, the Riga, to show us that we are with the soul and heart and with the peteto on the side of all the victims. But next to Rab, what I read in an interview with Mr. Hrybernik, who wrote a book dedicated to Jožet Jurančič, which freed 2,000 internationals on Rab without lightning. And I join him that this should be one of the greatest heroes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u55	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u56	I've got two lines in common, you can take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u57	No, Mr. Jerovšek, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u58	But most horrendous is that he wrote that Mr Jurančič asked why he had been sent to the Goli Island for four years with three sons. And he said that Mr. Jurančič said, "...this is Cardel's butter because I was in Tito's delegation negotiating with the Germans to jointly resist the invasion of the Adriatic."
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u59	Mr. Jerovšek, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u60	And thank you, because Tito was willing to take part in a counterinvasion, counter-resistance against the allies, they sent Jurančič to the Goli Island. These are the historical truths you need to be aware of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u61	Mr Jerovšek, we will have a chance to share the time, and you will all be able to discuss it. Now it's Dr. Gorenak's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you very much. My replica goes, of course, to Mrs. Potrat. At the beginning of its implementation, the Minister called for some tolerance, a solution to the problem and so on. I tried to hold on to it as much as I could in my performance. But now, Mrs. Potter, this is the case. Of course, you do not belong to that category of politicians who were in the sandstones in 1990, but you were then a person who could normally assess the situation and therefore some parts of your implementation are really malicious, are offensive, I will say, they are actually corrupt, and I can't say anything else. "So-called deleted" you started reading again. He was the first to use that word in this Chamber today, perhaps even, I don't know, betrothed or something, but he used that word. For me, regardless of this judgment of the European Court of Justice or any other judgment, they will still be "blotted out" and nothing else. Second. You've read that the previous government has not held hands. If you'd listened, you'd have heard. The former government held on to all deadlines. She had two arms. The first was that last September we paid compensation to those six who had been awarded compensation. The second was to make a basic scheme, if I'm not wrong, an action plan as one I asked Strasbourg to extend it to me for a month, which was extended to me and that's where it was adopted. Then my mandate ended, so I did not participate in the drafting of the law before us today. So the former government did everything. And she didn't want anything. That's an ugly lie. You've started talking about speculators again, and I'm going to end it. Explain to me, with your knowledge of Slovenian, what this means if someone from 1992 to 1996 did not realize that he had been erased. Explain to me, in Slovenian with all the knowledge you have, what it's called. From 1992 to 1996, he did not realize that it had been erased. Yeah, then what is it? Speculator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Here you go. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u64	Madam Vice-President, I think that, as President-in-Office of today's meeting, however, we should react, as it has already happened in the second instance that Members and Members are not treated equally. To mention that some Members were still working at the time of their independence means that they do not consider them to be equal interlocutors in the National Assembly. I believe that, regardless of gender, age, status, religion and so on, we are all the same after the constitution and that we should remind our client colleague, who was even a minister, that he should be aware of how Members and Members of the National Assembly should be treated. Nice to meet you. Something like this should not be done in the English Parliament because it is already there when someone tells someone to calm down, an inappropriate, politically incorrect comment. That is all I would like you to do is to remind the speaker that we are talking about a political culture and the new faces that the public is asking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your informative and constructive proposal. I am sure that everyone in this room is well aware of this and that each one of us will make it clear how he will follow your advice. And it's mag. Branko Grims, he's still behind him as a proposalant, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u66	Have a nice hello again. It would be nice if everyone were aware of the responsibilities of citizens and citizens, because in one thing we probably all agree, at least in words today, if someone is being wronged by the state, it should be corrected. But it is also necessary to be aware of the other salaries of this claim. Money does not come from the sky as a meteorite, but it means that for the payback of injustices, money will go to health care, education, pensions. Therefore, this situation should be taken extremely seriously with full responsibility all the time, in particular from one point of view. Today, it's just the incredible arrogance of some in the transition left, who are still calling us here because we've warned in time how this is going to end. Let me remind you of the story a few years ago, when I warned in Parliament that, in the extreme case of failure to seek consensus, if the constitutional law is not to be negotiated, and the transitional left has completely rejected it, it can be a matter of half-billion or even billions of euros worth of compensation. And I was disgusted with the liar that he was smoking. Today, there is a real possibility that if things go wrong, that there will be damages there even over a billion euros, even more than I have warned, the government of the same transitional left. And you're still putting up with everyone around you. Where will this billion be taken?Oh, my God! She'll be retired, she'll be taken from education, she'll be taken from health care. And to this situation, ladies and gentlemen, you, with your arrogance of repeatedly rejecting a serious discussion on this subject, have brought you to this point alone, because this topic has been a subject that has been open to you. So it was nice to face the Nazis, and I don't know what, because we warned them that it didn't work that way, that it wasn't good, that it wasn't fair, that it was unfair to throw everything into the same boiler. Twice. Not only because of all the other citizens and citizens, but also because of what we call deleted. Who's together now? You used to talk about one woman, mother, that story reached into your heart. But it also reached into my heart when I read that he was among the deleted, even in some position he was in this organization, someone who threatened to blow up the entire village, killed not how many and how many people and who was proven an aggressor at the time of JLA's attack on the state of Slovenia. And these two should be separated. Because being in the same boiler now is unfair to this lady. I say that with all my responsibility. And there's something else that's unfair. It's now a crime to talk about unlimited damages, lump sums, I don't know what to do, all those who have settled their citizenship. Do you know what situation we're going to come up with? In the past period, so many and so many thousands of people have calmly arranged all things well. And now you're going to be made of this logic without everything. Those who speculated who went down were in the war somewhere else, even arrested there, then replaced, even such ones are among the so-called erased, proven, but will receive compensation under this law, and even unlimited lawsuits will be brought against them for some injustice that should have occurred to them. It's probably that mother, and that's certainly not what happened. And that these two are now together, this simply does not legally hold up, it does not hold up ethically, not on any other scale. And that's what we've been warning since day one. And that's what you've been rejecting since day one. This was really the point at which we could never find the slightest agreement — that we should look at the role of who was and what someone really did during and after that period. The whole story is bloated and conceptual. The term "delete" is used. "Delete" is used in the European Union for what happened in the Baltic countries when people were deprived of their rights overnight, without everything as if they were non-existent. This has not happened to anyone in Slovenia. People were invited to arrange things. If this was not arranged, they were transferred from one registry to another. While the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees them all those fundamental rights and freedoms as well as anyone in this territory. So, in a situation like those up north, even theoretically, they could never have known each other. But the same term is used, and Europe understands that, of course, now. And it is not the biggest crime, as some of you have said, that some have been wronged at the time of Slovenian independence. The biggest crime is that you are obviously sacrificing your own country on the transition left and you are committing it before the whole European Union and the whole world just to pursue some of the political goals that are close to you at some point. Then what do you lead us to? Until what Mr Alijeski had warned here in this House, which was one of the so-called deleted, he had arranged his situation without a problem long ago that he had sacrificed some time, money, things. Now he will pay compensation to those who did not do so at the time, who even threatened him with weapons, ladies and gentlemen, as a traitor because he regulated his status in accordance with the legislation of the new country. And in so doing, you refer to the Constitution. With what is now happening, it has reached the very foundation of the Constitution of Slovenia, the constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter. For he really set things and hands, as they later happened, but now this is forgotten. These are the reasons why we warned from day one that we should go gradually, individually, and see who is who. And let the injustice of those who were really wronged to him, but not that the speculators, even those who were aggressors, would benefit from it. There is no country in the world that would do that. And once again, it's a billion euros. This is now acknowledged by your government, even more than a billion euros. And I'm afraid that's what's going to happen. Just because some of you spoke, yes, even if you had passed a constitutional law 10 years ago, the judgment of the European Court of Justice would now be the same. That's not true! Because it couldn't have come to this judgment because things wouldn't have gotten there. Take a look at when something was actually done, and think a little bit about what it means in the real world. Those judgments would never have happened. Pika. Because things would have been settled a long time ago. And they would be arranged in a way that would be more fair to these people themselves, that would be done in a way that was consistent with the law and the constitution, and that would be done in a way that was appropriate for this country. There can now be so severe consequences that a country that is already in a total crisis because of the government, as it is now, will have to pay another billion. Where is she going to get it, people of God? Do you even know what you're talking about? At this point, a few million euros or a few ten million euros are being sought in all possible ways for individual most urgent matters. Now there will be a sudden burden for a billion euros if that happens. That's what your own minister warned you about, but it seems to be getting a little over-examined. At that time, when we warned here in this House, we remained, but we were vilified. But then there was a time when these things could be settled. And today, it's quite arrogant for everyone to see why it was so and why it wasn't. And they're still using the wrong concepts. In Slovenia, as members of the Russian minority were wiped out in the Baltic countries, no one was deleted. Pika. However, the procedures have been carried out so well that even the European Union has set an example for the year following Slovenia's independence. Of course, this does not mean that there could be no mistakes. Apparently, it is in individual cases. But this should be handled differently. And it should have been resolved a long time ago. It would be much more fair to those directly concerned and it would be much more fair to all citizens and citizens. But it was obvious to someone that he was opening it up, that he was comparing others to the Nazis and something like the whole family, because you know the stories that we're in right now. And now there's no good way out. And this is what I warned about at the beginning, when I also represented the position of our Group of Members. You've reached a point where there's simply no more maneuverable space. Any solution is under the great question of what will happen to it. And no one will be satisfied with it. Everyone will see it as injustice. That's the most amazing thing about this story. Now you have reached the point where you will accept any solution, and you will accept it and take responsibility for it, but everyone concerned will take it as an injustice. All the other citizens, all the new citizens who have settled their affairs in a timely manner, in accordance with the regulations of the state of Slovenia, and all those of whom you are talking about today, you will stand up for their interests. In fact, they are collateral damage to your political accounting over the years, so you left this topic open. To be able to reach consensus on it, let me prove with this first act, which I also mentioned in the introduction, that we sat together with the then Minister of SD, Mr Bohince, for a few days and we wrote a constitutional law that would be acceptable to both of us for all. We both showed this to our clients’ leadership, and they all agreed. But when Mr Rob, who was then the Prime Minister of the Government, called a meeting, and he humiliated Mr Bohintz there gravely before us, he pushed him like the last animal to tell you exactly what it looked like, and then he said that if I used a literal quote, he should have picked it up. And that's how this story really started to turn in the current direction. The consequences are not just that; the consequences will be paid by all, and the consequences will be great, and today we can only imagine them, and they are difficult to measure. You were warned by the minister. And given the responsibility of this country, this debate should take place differently, we should also look at what has happened and what is still possible to implement into the current system at this time. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. And now for the final debater. Minister, you want a word? Here you go. Minister Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Because I started this debate today, and I will also conclude it, and I will also try to end it the way I started it, it is in such a more rational spirit. I find that the law will receive support almost reliably today at first reading. I find that it is very likely that no one will vote against this law, but that you will vote either in favour or abstain. And that's good. The debate was also mostly rational, and there was something about this normal political accounting on the left-right line, but there is nothing excessive about it, because I think there is some common awareness that this is a problem that we have to solve. Once again, I will point out that we are saving it in a way that many of us have always advocated, which is to take as much account of individual treatment as possible after twenty years to deal with these cases on a case-by-case basis. So to take into account, on the one hand, the fact that some have settled their status very quickly, after the then applicable law on foreigners has been made possible, several thousand such cases, it is said, were not impossible to regulate this status. Taking into account the fact that some could not arrange it, whether they were deported or unable to return to the country, they wanted to, and thus the injustice or damage to them needed to be rectified. This is how the circle of beneficiaries is defined by law. So any person who has expressed some interest after his stay in Slovenia was granted a residence permit under the 1999 status law, which was amended in 2010. And these are our beneficiaries under this law. There's over 10,000 of them. It is said that we are already going to a rather individual treatment here, and it is really hard to imagine how to look for the remaining 15,000 beneficiaries who obviously never had any real interest in living in Slovenia. And even if the court tells us in the final stage, I don't know how we can make this happen. I do not think they will impose this on us because it is very clear from the judgment of Kurić that the two complainants who are in this category have not, therefore, expressed interest, have not been given the right to compensation. From here on, of course, we are solving the compensation scheme with a lump sum, to a certain extent flattening the problem, I will say again, because in such a multitude of people and in such different cases and after so much time, it is not possible to do otherwise than to flatten it to some extent. From here on, however, we allow each individual to go to court, to point out the circumstances of his case, no obsolescence will prevent him from showing what he suffered, if he suffered, what happened to him, what he lost, how he was separated from his children, and what happened, then the court in individual proceedings, in particular proceedings, will pay compensation, which will be far more just than some general beating on one side and on the other, which will always be too general. In the end, it is appropriate for the court, in a particular individual case, to judge all the circumstances of the case and to give a legally correct ruling. It has been mentioned several times today that he will have the last word of Strasbourg. Here. In any case, I would have it, because whatever we did in Slovenia in this area, the dissatisfied would always turn to the European Court of Human Rights and eventually we will get the hook from there at some point. I hope and I believe we'll get the hook on this marriage, on what it is now. If we're gonna have to fix it, we're gonna fix it. These days in Strasbourg, I'm not getting a final confirmation. I know what will be decided, because we've also coordinated this for a while. The Committee of Ministers will welcome the adoption of the law at first reading, recommending that we bring it to the conclusion of the procedure as soon as possible and once again invite us to examine a little of the issue of those who have applied for permanent residence permits and have been rejected. This is the most difficult story to explain in Strasbourg, but I have tried very hard and will continue to make it very clear that all those who wanted to settle their status were rejected for any reason because of bureaucratic arrogance, because they could not get to the papers from their countries or even to the country because they had stopped them at the border, etc., that we allowed all of them with the status law of 1999/2010 to do so. And if this status law has to be supplemented, we will. All those who, under this legislation, have a permanent residence permit today or who will obtain it will be a few hundred more likely, because the procedures are still in progress, and even the children are deleted because the 2010 law also solved children's issues, all of them will automatically fall into the compensation scheme. Even if the Constitutional Court ever told us that we still have to open this option for a few hundred people, they will fall automatically into the compensation scheme. I have a perfectly good feeling before these debates in Strasbourg and I will do everything in my power. However, things are sometimes not exactly seen from Strasbourg, and the great question is how well we have been represented in this conflict. And there's a whole bunch of questions. But thank you for today's debates, which I think are leading in the right direction and in the adoption of the law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. You have been given a chance to speak to all the debaters, but time has not yet run out, so I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see more desire for a debate. That's why I'm opening up an opportunity to apply. Please report to the debate. Eight panellists have been reported, and I think after five minutes every debater has time. The first one's up to Mr. Brultz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. The Minister strives to correct the injustices as far as possible and to withdraw once from the agenda in this country. His performance was professional and would say understandable and useful, even for those who have been erased, even for those who have also insulted us and so on. So there's no such thing as one yes, one no, one we were against, one they were for and the other. But there have been so many things here today in this debate that are not part of this subject, and I am sorry that we are constantly meeting with some of the obviouss to you, you and so on. Look, I've had enough moral sermons. I have nothing to do with postwar killings; I was born after World War II; the President of the State of Kučan apologized at the time in the Horn — and what will we kneel every day? Would it be fair for me now to keep saying that the right hand must apologize for the events at the Holy Ur and so forth? Let's stop! Let's stop! We regret everything that was bad during the war, after the war, and even today things are going wrong. But we have to live and work for tomorrow, for tomorrow, for those who are unemployed and so on. And if I wasn't in Ormož, I admit it, and I didn't even know it, I wouldn't have gone because it's too far and so on. This does not mean that I agree with what was going on there and something like that. Let's stop reading each other and instead of, I don't know, the transition left, say left, because we're left, we hope we are and we want to be. And don't torture yourself with some expression, it doesn't lead anywhere. Let us now solve this problem, we are talking about deleted, how much this country will cost, how citizens and citizens should individually try to prove that they have been harmed and so on. I was the mayor, and at that time she had one lady in Nova Gorica for 100 years. When I came to wax her, she laughed, and she said, "I can't die, I don't have a ID." But Slovenian, born somewhere in the south, her husband wasn't Slovenian, and she lost that right. And she's not Slovenian anymore. She's been blamed. So why don't you, no, this one probably doesn't live anymore, but whatever. These were the same things, and we tried to comfort each other at the time, so that things would be settled. And it is right that it is finally settled and that this is no longer discussed. It'll cost you what it costs. And now who's to blame, I don't know, we all had our own views and beliefs. I will support this law at this first reading, maybe some more drinking will be needed to make sure that we know what we're dealing with. Minister, I want you to do well where you have to. It's in Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I, too, join in the words of support to Minister Virant for the work of this law, of course also to all co-workers, and especially for this rational act today, when you acknowledge or show us all that it is no longer time to keep searching the past, but it is necessary to settle the matter. If this is the case with the Slovenian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, it is necessary to arrange this and there will be no further charges against them. I am joining those who say that, however, it is necessary if any activity against the country of Slovenia was taken in 1991, that appropriate procedures should be carried out against these people. This is because we continue to condemn time after World War II when a whole series of so-called out - of - court procedures were carried out that led to the killings. If we know that this was wrong at the time, then we must not repeat the same mistakes in connection with our 1991 self-sustaining war, if we think that people are either living in Slovenia or outside Slovenia, acting against the country of Slovenia, and it is worth the prosecution in connection with a war crime, then we must carry out these procedures. The offence of acting against the State must be established. If such people are among those who have been erased, and if they are among those who now demand compensation, so are such people, then this needs to be cleared up in time. I am also joining my colleague Horvath, who says that we are still facing an unregulated issue of compensation for material damage to war victims from World War II. All those who know this issue are aware that this material damage implies a lot of money, but we are also aware that this part of the issue of reparation to people who suffered during World War II is still unregulated. And also with the law that Minister Virant is now writing and dealing with the elimination of systemic shortcomings in our legal order, which did not provide compensation for the removal, even in this case it is essentially a matter of remedying some systemic legal flaw. Just as we lack a system-wide legal framework for the issue of material damage to the victims during World War II. Those of you who say that you knew that there would be a claim for compensation a long time ago, I fear that, in fact, you are silently admitting or also stressing that this country deliberately avoided this systemic deficiency for twenty years. , And we need to put another problem in front of each other. If we are already comparing ourselves with the Baltic countries and their condemnation, or their way of wiping out the Russian minority, what happened after the fall of the Iron Curtain, after the breakup of the Soviet Union, and this was a form of revenge for the former state and members of the leading nation of the former country, and now we claim that we have done something else by erasure, then we need to know that this is not true. In 1992, by erasing some people, it was likely that those who were members of the nations of the other republics of the former Yugoslavia would be wiped out, apparently, too. Like the new countries, the Baltic States, the post-Soviet states wanted revenge on the Russians. And that's not right. This kind of revenge should not be part of our legal order or our way of thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. During this time, we were joined by many visitors on the balcony, a very nice greeting to all. And it's mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In particular, I have stressed that the deletion of my post with all my pesos is due to the fact that the State of Slovenia has caused it to be deleted. When I talked about it, I said that's why this injustice is stronger for me than some others. When I spoke about finality, I came out of my conviction, and I also reasoned that no law we adopt in the National Assembly is so good that it would not be possible or necessary to improve it again. That's why the use of the word definitively in my speech was profoundly non-ideological, but it was empirical. Since this is from experience, I find that these things are not definitive. As for ethics. You know, for 30 years, I've been a professional in education. My profession is such that when evaluating literary art, it requires coordination between three elements: aesthetic, cognitive and ethical. So for 30 years, I have been working professionally to find ethical rules, and I think I know what's ethical, and that the call of one of the Members who didn't understand what he did or wanted to understand hostilely to me that I don't have to say such an invitation, because I've worked hard with ethics, as it were, and I'm still sensitive to ethical behavior, even though I'm now a 13-year-old politician. I would like others to be ethically sensitive. Because it should be remembered that somewhere in there it is written that we should not cause another thing that we do not want to do for ourselves. That it's not good to lie about, I'm not even talking about it. I find it difficult to deny that, once again, the point of my speech was that the European Court of Human Rights had said that Slovenia must establish a compensation scheme to be removed from the Register of Permanent Populations because it had assessed that the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia had shortcomings or a legal void, which prevented the entire category of deleted persons from being compensated for their violation of their fundamental human rights. So a warning that the system needs to be arranged. And that's what I was talking about. The solution must be systemic, but it will be enforced by each individual. And this was also the case in the 2010 law, so I say that I do not understand those who link their opposition to the solutions offered to them constantly with the perception that there was no individual treatment. That's not true! Individual treatment after 2010 and also under this law is necessary, necessary and possible. I hope that, however, improvements to this law can be made in the same way as the representatives and representatives of the deleted have indicated, and that the feeling and regret of delaying the resolution of this unacceptable behaviour can be slowly calmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you. In view of the fact that today there are also those whom I value very much, there is an unusual way that I have warned about something. No one attacked the Baltic States after the break-up of the Iron Union with military force. It's Slovenia after its independence. That's a big difference. There was a lot going on back then in very chaotic circumstances. It is very nice to document how some JLA officers sent their families back to their home republics before the war of independence, but they did not sign off on their permanent residence. They did so knowingly, deliberately, because otherwise they would reveal their intentions and intentions to JLA at the time. But do you know what this means in the light of what we're talking about today? Hence, they knowingly violated the law, for at that time the law stipulated that permanent residence should be checked out when leaving. This means that today they or at least their families will receive compensation for a conscious violation of the law. Very interesting! Then let someone explain it to me from the point of view of modern law and something else. As far as proper procedures are concerned with the attackers. I guess it was meant to be a court of law. That would be normal in any normal country. That's all you have to assume is that you have normal European functioning justice. Does Slovenia have it? There is one very interesting judgment on this particular matter. It was given by a cell court, which ruled in case it wasn't what it was judged today, when you didn't know when, where, who, what, nothing known, but convicted. But at the time, it was known exactly which JLA officer, whose civilian was abducted, exactly where in Celje, where the army, the clock and the time, when he was beaten, was documented to nothing because there were even television recordings. And, ladies and gentlemen, they were forgiven in the Slovenian court, explaining that by October 1991 JLA, I quote from memory, was not an enemy army of Slovenia. And now, you tell me how you're going to find the appropriate resources for such a justice, which is, if I'm very mild, non-European, I'd have another comment, and I'd rather be quiet. Finally, given that time no longer permits me, he would quote another very interesting thing because it is very much in the light of how we talked in the past. When I pointed out in 2009 exactly what we are dealing with today that the matter will be born in just a few negotiations on compensations, which will then be given all the way forward and there will be new injustices, and that no one will be satisfied with this and that the modern law in the full sense of the word will certainly not be satisfied with this, it was said by the then minister: "Yes, Mr Grims always overlooks one very important fact in the story of compensation. Six years since the opposition led by the SDS has threatened damages and 4 thousand decisions have already been issued by Minister Bohinc more than five years ago. And what happened until today? Nothing at all. Not even any compensation has been paid, no euros and no tolars. This menacing danger, which Mr Grimes so likes to talk about, is just a fairy tale." Today we are considering a law that is the Compensation Act. The fairy tale becomes reality. So who's the teller, ladies and gentlemen? You.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much. It seems to me that we have touched on some of the key ethical issues in this debate today. Not just about the deleted ones that I have to say forced on us as a crime in this country. And here I'm pretty sure it wasn't about that. The first types of imposition of this opinion were those who really acted against the then new country and spat on it as a worthless country in which they did not even want to live. There were these statements on TV, and yet they are now in the circle of those most vehement in damages. However, I cannot agree with what has been said here when we are talking about injustices when my colleague Poturat said that this injustice is worse than the injustices that have been committed in the past that have ended in mass deaths. Listen, has anyone killed anyone who's been wiped out? And such relativisation is not right within this topic. I am pleased that Mrs Jelusičova has opened up the topic of the relationship, say, to the camp in Rab. And I wonder whether these deleted were wronged worse, as some have reasoned, as already mentioned by Mr Jurančič, who freed 2 thousand prisoners on Rab without being shot, and then virtually ended up on the Golem Island with three sons. They can't fix his injustices anymore. But I wonder if his sons have been wronged. And he was on the Golem Island, as it was said, only because he was a pre-war communist and a Partisan then appointed after Rab to the Tito delegation, which went to negotiate with the invader, that they and the invader would reject the invasion of the English in the Adriatic Sea, if that happened. Because Tito was aware that without it he would not have the Yugoslav Empire, and he was willing to cooperate with the invaders in all ways. And this is a terrible injustice to Jurančič and his sons. And nobody's asking questions about that. Celebrate those who have caused this crime and this right. Here we must have empathy for what injustices and what questions. Although Jelusic's colleague had a very positive discussion and she was the only one who managed this power to touch deeper injustices with pieta and empathy, we cannot say that the same error happened to the erased ones as it happened to those killed in the extrajudicial killings. Probably not. The loss of life, whatever it is that says it is a final solution, we know who the Jews were talking about a final solution, and I am horrified to use this term, which was used for Jews and a definitive solution, these are not the same mistakes. I'll let it be a mistake. I'm skeptical about it, I'm against it if there was anything out of revenge. But there must have been something in this country's self-defense. If you invite someone to show loyalty to what is normal, all emerging countries or with amended borders have opportunistic legislation that they adopt. And if you compare it, you will see that it is much more determined and serious and requires more than those citizens. I don’t think it was about revenge — if it was in some kind of head, but it was about actually respecting the rule of law of this country. We've been led so far as to be attributed to some of the dead as a crime. Real crimes, including from the former country, look, but they don't admit it. Brand wasn't to blame for what was going on in Auschwitz. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] As a representative of the German state. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is a reported mag. Leila Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u80	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law on compensation for damage to persons who have been deleted from the residence register. We have a law that regulates something, like the minister said, which we haven't had before, and that's good. A mistake has been made and needs to be corrected. It really needs to be corrected because of people, because of the state of Slovenia and, as the minister said, because of the commitment to European Union law. I regret to be late for the correction of injustices, but we already know that the world is not righteous, that injustice is enough, and there are many prejudices. They were, they are, and they will be, but we're big when we fix them. So it's a good thing we have this marriage on the table now. I'm not going to mention the facts of the deleted because they're known. However, it may be good to read what is the problem, who has come forward, who has not, who has submitted, who among these people is entitled to reparation, who is not. True, most people are always injured, but there are some people who really don't belong there. Although some have submitted applications, they have been rejected because they were on temporary work abroad. Or because they were members of the military union. Some submitted the application too late or could not get an attachment in time, a copy of the birth certificate, because we know that because of the war conditions in the former Yugoslavia this was not possible. Incomplete roles officials often refused to accept, and that is what was contrary to the regulations of the day. Some of the applications were not submitted because they were born in Slovenia, in mixed laws, and did not know that they did not have Slovenian citizenship. Other applications were not submitted because they expected to live normally in Slovenia as foreigners with permanent residence. So this is a mix where it's very hard to tell now how many people there are in one group, how many in the other, how many in the third. What I want to say today is it's good that we're saying what we're saying, and what we're saying is we're doing. In this national assembly, we really think one thing a lot, we work another, and we speak third. I think times are like when we really need the truth, because then we all feel better and better, and the injustices are normal, and we need to fix them. That one was really big. Every time we discuss something, it's good to be on the other side, and be in the role of it, and then we talk a little easier, we talk a little better, and even if we want to say something, we say it in a nice way. Finally, I will say that Positive Slovenia and I will open the door to this law at first reading. He's not perfect, he needs to be fixed, but he needs to be allowed to go to another treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Hercegovac. As last reported, he's a mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Bible says: “The last will be the first, and the first will be the last. For the intro. Look, I can't agree with the fact that the Slovenian state made the deletion. You know what a good excuse that is. Everything was done by the state. She's cut her pension. She's erased the state. Who's the state? Where do you see her? These are institutions. It's parliament, government, government. We should locate responsibility, who is responsible, that in almost 20 years we have not been fit enough to restore dignity to humans. That's the problem with this country. And if I correct myself, this Parliament, these governments, these state authorities. Do you know how much guilt we sow? Nothing is done by the state, people are working on behalf of the state and hiding behind the synonym of the state for two decades. Imagine coming to Australia as an expatriate, moving, just like ours came, in the jargon we say, southern brothers and sisters, and they do to you what we did. You know, no country has done this or made an exception. And then this country says, when the European Court says that you are an impolite state, not a state, you are an incompetent parliament, an impolite government, because you do not arrange it, you must arrange it, and impose it with the judgment of the Court. And then we say, 40 euros per month. What can you do with 40 euros today? You know, those who did this have names, last names, were in institutions, so they were there to sort things out. They didn't make arrangements to take on the cost as well. Every CEO, whatever goes wrong, answers. Some signed the bills, some came to the speaker's stage saying, "I assure you." Politicians say that. What do they provide politicians with? With what? Did they sign the personal menu? What are they vouching for? With my house? Nothing. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's... And here's the problem. The problem is the amount of compensation. And this is where I follow the mag. Matthew Guilty, who thinks he's one broken man and says the compensation is shameful. If we are so rude that we have not been able to do so in 20 years, then let us pay or pay those responsible. I was not in any institution of the system at the time which would be responsible and that individual would be responsible. Look what happens now. We speak again, we will now accept this, the law will be passed, and then the lawsuits will follow. According to my information, over a thousand lawsuits have been filed. Who's gonna pay? Would it not make more sense for those people who have been harmed, who have been deprived of their dignity, to negotiate for so long rather than to sue for bargaining? Those who care deeply, who have credit for anything, let me say that it is good that a person can function normally, call to mind the old human wisdom: The ball and the medal usually do not strike the right person. The medals are attached to those who are least deserving, the bullets are given to those who are most responsible for the welfare of something. We sow new injustices, new injustices – and, you know, this session may be good for us to remember, we adopted a regulation on the construction of buildings, and we changed it in one month. We have some kind of hybrid volunteer internship in court. In court, imagine! And yesterday I received a bunch of e-mails, and I'm going to prepare some for the next session, what people think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. But we're moving on to 15. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on corporate income tax within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u84	Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons was approved by the Government in June of this year. This is a shorter novelty, which does not provide for new institutions for the taxation of corporate incomes, but refers to existing institutions. Surely the most important solution presented by the proposal for a law is the solution to the general tax rate. According to the proposal, the tax rate of 17 % applicable for 2013 shall also be maintained for the following years. Let me stress again, it is a retention of the applicable rate and not an increase in the general rate of corporate tax. In the search for consolidation effects that would evenly divide the burden of consolidation of public finances into different tax and taxpayers, the government has decided to retain the rate to 17 %, but has not addressed the area of tax relief. These shall be maintained to the extent that they have so far. The tax relief for investing in R & D of 100 % of these investments and the tax relief for investing in equipment and intangible assets of 40 % of the investment amount shall continue to apply. These reliefs have been significant savings for the economy over the past years. By comparison, in 2007, when both reliefs were in place, but to a limited extent, companies charged over 1.1 billion corporate income tax. However, for a good EUR 125 million, both have been applied. The amount of existing aids increased to around €430 million in the next year when the aid for R & D was granted over the coming years. Taking into account the tax rate, this means a total of 111 million tax reductions to the investment relief and relief account for R & D. In particular, due to the increase in investment relief and the elimination of the amount limit, the so-called effective tax rate fell to 12 % in 2012 from the statutory 18 % rate. The burden of corporate income tax as measured by the share of GDP in Slovenia was among the lowest in the European Union and stood at 1.2% for 2012, which is more than 2 times less than the weighted average of European countries for 2011, which is 2.5%. We estimate that maintaining a tax rate of 17% for the revenue of the state budget in 2014 will prevent a reduction of this type of revenue by around €22 million and an additional 25 million in 2015. In addition, let me mention another important solution presented by the proposal for a law, this is a solution with regard to the so-called Institute of Thin Capitalisation or the tax recognition of interest on connected persons if it is a debtor in which the relationship between debt and capital is very poor. This amendment builds on the provision of the law in terms of the protection of the tax base. With the already established provisions of this Institute and the above-mentioned upgrade, the Institute will serve even more fully the purpose, as a rule against tax evasion and as a rule in the field of transfer pricing. Other amendments do not constitute major substantive differences, but they do mean compliance with other applicable laws. Your Honor! It takes into account all the above, I propose that the proposal for a law be supported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in both the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much, mag. It's a crowbar. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President, and a very nice greeting to you all. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 19th meeting, on 12. 9. 2013 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, second reading, EPA 1303-VI, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government in a regular procedure. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and made written comments to Articles 2 and 7 from a legislative and technical point of view. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission on the economy, trade, tourism and finance of the State Council, which does not support the proposal. Amendments to Articles 5 and 6 of the SDS Group were tabled within the time limit for the law submitted. 9. 2013 A written proposal for an amendment to Article 2 was also proposed by the Committee member and SDS Members, Romane Tomc. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the discussion. The secretary has already explained before what this amendment is intended for. The main change is to stop the tax on corporate income from falling to 17%, the law in force envisaged a further reduction of 15% in the next two years. We had a rather gruesome discussion on this subject. In this debate, we have identified ourselves to the amendments adopted, which the Committee has not adopted. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax should be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Starman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party or mag. Andrey Shircelj on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The key solution to this proposal is that the tax rate should be maintained to 17% and that, as previously foreseen, it should not be reduced to more than 15% or one percentage point each year. The policy of not lowering tax rates or, in other words, increasing tax rates continues, as, after all, entrepreneurs, investors, foreigners, locals, those who still want to produce and invest in this country have made a mistake in planning because the government will change this tax rate. This means, of course, that the tax environment is unstable and, finally, as we were able to read in July, Mr Akrapovič broke up with a multi-million-dollar investment in the White Country also because the tax environment in the country is unstable. Since it is an unstable business environment and since the government continues to pursue such a policy, the financial impact of this tax will also be much lower. If we look at the financial impact today, the Public Finances Bulletin, no. This year, 7, 8th year, the tax collected on the income of legal persons in the first half of this year is 62 million. It's half a summer. If we look at the annual data, in 2012 the tax was collected 576 million, in 2011 667 million and so on. There's no profit. And if there is no tax base, then in fact there is nothing to tax, and since there is nothing to tax, tax revenues will continue to decline. As a result, the 2014 budget to be submitted by the Government to the National Assembly or adopted on Monday, such forecasts are unrealistic today. Even today, it is unrealistic and will already need a budget correction, a budget rebalancing, because income is actually overestimated, as is the revenue under this heading 20, 22 or 25 million, as far as it is here, in terms of this year or next year, is simply overestimated. The profits are falling. Companies are closing down, bankruptcys are increasing, unemployed as well. And this is the destructive tax policy of this government, which just doesn't do anything but raise taxes. In such a volatile environment, it is actually extremely difficult to operate and, therefore, the budget revenues will be lower than is actually expected. It cannot be expected that the gross domestic product will fall and, on the other hand, the revenues will increase, neither from value added tax nor from corporate income tax. That is why we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In fact, we oppose it because we do not actually get anything through this law, but we give an extremely bad signal to investors, both domestic and foreign, both domestic and foreign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u90	Respected and respected! Social Democrats support the solution, as proposed by the Government, just as we opposed the reduction of corporate income tax when the Janša government decided to do so. At that time, we pointed out that the tax reduction, even gradually, would lead to a significant loss of public financial revenues, which would have to be balanced in different ways. Today we know that only at the level of this year's tax drop is €170 million. This would even be understood that the reduction of this tax would have a significant impact on the competitiveness of our economy and our country. Well, no. The best example for this is the neighbouring Austria, which has a Corporate Tax set up substantially, significantly higher, and is much more competitive as a country and economy. Unfortunately, there are other reasons for weakness in our competitiveness. If this could be resolved only with the issue of this tax, this would be an extremely easy task. At the time of these measures, we have also pointed out a fact that we are repeating today when we decide to stabilise the level of this tax nominally at 17%, that the analysis of the impact of the reduction in the tax rate of this tax has shown a minimal impact on all elements of gross domestic product. The reduction in the corporate tax rate is, as such, ineffective, especially in a given situation where many economic operators only dream of creating profits, not because or not only of high tax burdens, but because of other reasons that weaken the Slovenian economy. It is known that, with Slovenia's recent slip on the competitiveness scale, it is a key factor of this slip and, in fact, a key problem of the Slovenian economy is very limited access to funding sources. This, however, is a problem that Mr Shirtzelj has had a major impact on up until recently. Both the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the International Monetary Fund also draw attention to the small impact of tax reductions on the start-up of economic growth. This impact is particularly low in economies characterised by their openness and export orientation, such as Slovenia. We argue that this was one of the popular, populist measures of the previous government, which did not increase neither the demand nor economic growth. Slovenia has gained nothing from it, except that it has already deepened its public financial position. This should be taken into account in particular when we look at what is the actual, effective tax rate, i.e. the rate at which companies actually pay the tax when they reduce the nominal rate for tax relief when they make a profit. And this is 12% in Slovenia. Of course, it should be noted that the loss of public finances under this heading must be balanced in a different way. I'm only asking a hypothetical question. If, two years ago, they had decided to maintain the rate of this tax at 20%, resulting from the loss of resources, they might not have to consider raising the value added tax this year, nor any other tax which may have significantly worse consequences for the economy than reducing the nominal rate of the tax or maintaining the level of that tax at the level that is applicable this year. Social Democrats will therefore support this bill as a sign of one reason, a logical balance between the various measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished assembly! The bill retains corporate income taxation in the coming years at the same level as last year and will be lower than it was last year. It will remain at a nominal level of 17%, which effectively means much less than 12%. Taxation of the income of legal persons is only one component of the business environment, and at such an effective rate is far from the most important. Stability, including political, predictability, efficiency of public administration, the labour market, the functioning banking system, the development of the capital market and could also be mentioned. A small change in any of these areas will significantly exceed an additional reduction in taxation by a percentage or two. I hope that we will soon be able to report on improvements in all the areas mentioned above, so that we will also actually fulfil the fundamental commitment we have made in the coalition agreement, which is to do everything possible to make the economic activity curve finally turn upside down. We have already changed a lot if I am the exact half-points of the coalition agreement that relates to the start-up of the economy. I hope that the effect of this will be seen as soon as possible. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u94	Nice greeting, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! We are talking about a change in corporate income tax and the idea that the current rate of 17% will stop at this percentage, but not that, as originally, in the next two years, it will fall first to 16% and then to 15%. What's the reason? It's government material to find new resources for the budget. It is another item in a series of those who fill one third of our country's financial consolidation, as set out in the stability programme, and as the President of the Government would like to say, what we have done in this third. That's the one-third where we're supposed to collect new taxes. For 180 million it is expected that an increase in value added tax, from the income scale that we are considering today, is expected to generate 20 million more taxes in the following year, from the profits of legal persons of the new 20 million. On the way to parliament or I don't know where, but there is also this notorious real estate tax, where expectations for the new 200 million euros are. If we add that up, that's a total of 420 million taxes. Much less, a well-respected coalition, you have so far been successful in those two-thirds, as you predicted, where something would happen in rationalising public spending. It is probably more difficult to reconcile in this area in coalition than we hear, but certainly because today we have heard that the former coalition that has adopted this law has been liked by the economy, perhaps you don't want to be liked, and you want to speak first of all what sounds nice, but not what should have been said in these times, to speak in a country that is in serious distress and should behave responsibly. What message do we give with this change? What has already been exposed here today, we are changing our tax environment, turning it into worse. Today, we have heard this from the Secretary of State, how damaged the country has been, because in two areas: development, research and investment, there were 600 million investments and 111 million less taxes. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I firmly believe that over the next five years, we will be able to raise 600 million investments in pensions, in health bills, in contributions, in the end in a few years, and in the profit tax much more than those 111 million, and above all our people will have a job and an economic environment, some incentive. I was very pleased to talk with the director of Krka, who mentioned that in 2012, because of such a decision and because of such a changed tax environment, he made an investment in the municipality in which I was mayoring, in two stages immediately at the beginning, 95 million euros of investment was not 60 million. I was very disappointed and sad when I heard Mr Akrapovich's famous statement that he would not invest in the White Land in such times because the country changes this business environment from day to day to day. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we think that this is how we are going to save the country, I am very afraid that this will not be the case. Perhaps you can even close the budget on paper in early October. I doubt that at the end of October, when we get to the table the price we will pay for bad loans in banks and it will have to be calculated, to go to financial markets, it is also wise to go to parliament as soon as possible, not when all the facts are known. However, I fear that this is only one step, one nail more in the coffin that we are killing and also with a changed tax environment we are weakening the conditions for management in the country. You also forgot to mention that those most developed countries have a 15% tax on small businesses, it's different for large ones. We are also very difficult to compare with countries such as Austria, Germany, Finland, Great Britain, Belgium. A few years ago, we could, unfortunately not today. Today it is with those who fight for survival and also take measures to lure those who would come from elsewhere into their environment, and above all not to get our people out of our borders, those who should deal with the economy, whether younger or those who have been creating here for several years. We will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a bill regulating the corporate income tax is acceptable to the DeSUS Group and will be unanimously supported. The proposer argued the legal solutions, according to our assessment professionally and comprehensively. The solutions relating to the treatment of revenues in the enforcement procedure are fully acceptable and justified, as they are to adapt the new insolvency provisions to the tax institute of thin capitalisation, which is the protection of the tax base and administrative simplification, and to adapt the new pension legislation. Most of the speeches and also of the objections are about the level of the tax rate. By contrast, in 2006 it was established that the general rate of tax was gradually reduced from 25 % to 20 %. In 2012, there was once again a gradual drop in the tax rate from 20 to 15 %, which means that 15 % will apply in 2014 and 15 % in 2015. The Government's proposal, however, is that the tax rate should be fixed at 17 %. It is perfectly normal for the government to strive to curb the drop in the tax rate while the economy opposes it. However, we must take into account that the projected reductions in tax rates in previous years were based on the provision of additional resources mainly to the part of the economy that operates positively in difficult economic conditions, and thus enable economic growth to start. The long-term crisis has, of course, also caused a deterioration in the public financial situation. Economic growth forecasts are not exactly promising. With the aim of sustainability of public finances, the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present his position on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I cannot help but say that I am deeply concerned, deeply concerned when I still have the reply of Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek to the opposition's parliamentary questions yesterday. She thus said: "To seek at least negative measures for economic growth that will enable the consolidation of public finances." It is said that this can also be read by means of negative measures, all of which are prepared, we read this in the daily newspaper, but the government is making a lot of efforts to make these measures as negative as possible. If anyone understands that negative measures are used to increase economic growth, then please explain this to us. Look, Dr. Kraljic is calling for the acceleration of reforms in Slovenia. Merklov calls on Slovenia to speed up reforms in the first enabling speech. Where are the reforms? These are some measures, some marriage partners, but no concrete reform measures. I do not know when we will be able to start an economy of crucial importance through these measures. Strong economies are provided with finances or pensions, and a strong economy is also a good social policy. But, colleagues and colleagues, it takes an economic start to relieve the economy. We are well aware of this fact in New Slovenia. In one of the important measures in this area, the former ruling coalition, in which Nova Slovenije participated, reduced the corporate tax rate from 20% to 15%, by gradually reducing the tax rate. With a reduced tax rate, the objective was to provide the economy with additional free resources and to allow these free resources to focus on increasing economic activity. The most important, domestic and, in particular, foreign investors were sent an important signal that competitive operating conditions were ensured in Slovenia. The re-increasing of the corporate tax rate to 17% does not support a re-increasing of the corporate tax rate. Slovenia is becoming less interesting to potential investors not only because of the tax rate itself, but it is worrying that this measure will be understood in the economy in a way that the legislation in Slovenia is constantly changing and we are not able to provide a safe and stable business environment. So we are not a suitable place for new investments or portfolio investments. The proposal for the current amendments and the supplementation of the Law on corporate tax is a reason to increase the tax rate of the State. In New Slovenia, we believe that the proposaler is pursuing only short-term goals, which are likely to be achieved through the amendment of this law. However, in the long term, this change means less investment and slower economic growth and, as a result, lower public financial flows, we end up adding that the way in which public financial deficits are addressed, as driven by the current government, is wrong. Most of the measures focus on the revenue side, and the government has done little on the expenditure side, particularly in rationalising state and public administration. There are still many reserves in this area, according to New Slovenia's belief. Members of the New Slovenia Group The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. And the final presentation. Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and Mr Jerko Čehovin on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting from the secretary of state with a co-worker! Your Honor! In this chamber atmosphere, I will also give our position. We have listened to some of the discussions on the working body, and I am sure that we will hear several times today that the government is raising taxes and thus economic growth. Of course, that is not the case with this novelty. But I'll tell you why not. The amendment itself pursues four main objectives, of which we will devote most of the time in the debate to the forecasting of a tax rate of 17%. As we know, this stops the forecast dynamics of lowering the rate of tax and I stress, we stop, and we do not hang up as if some of the gathered here would like a presentation. By the way, this year's tax rate is 17%, last year it was 18%, which in fact means that this rate will be maintained at the same level next year, and I want to make this very clear. It is important to understand why we are stopping the tax rate from falling to 17% that we understand two terms, namely the nominal rate and the effective rate. An effective rate is the rate at which, when all subsidies and subsidies are taken into account, the tax is also actually paid. In our case, we have a nominal rate of 17% and it is effective at 12%. This means that the actual profit burden is only 12 %. And if we look comparatively at some countries with which we say that we are incomparable, but also they probably do, I don't know if we could see that a tree capital in there would not, for example, have a 35% rate, Germany 25%, Italy and Austria as neighbouring countries and 23% lower levels in the European Union have three countries, namely Cyprus and Bulgaria 10% and Estonia 15%. [[..]] What does that mean? That we wanted to keep this rate here for the second year because, in fact, it has not proved in practice that only lower taxes would automatically lead to an increase in investments. And since there is no tax base as such, for those who have lost, it doesn't matter whether the rate is 90% or 1%, but for those who are espouses, you haven't done anything, and nothing is changing now. Espeii pay taxes as natural persons — on income — and this means that this rate, when we speak so much, may be the most legal entities in the field of economics that we have left them where they are. The debate in the direction that the competitiveness of our companies is falling due to tax burden is certainly not appropriate here. The Law on corporate income tax also affects the area of the Institute of Thin Capitalisation and constitutes an extension of the definition of persons falling under the rule of thin capitalisation. Related persons and specifically so-called sister companies or companies shall be considered. There is also a proposed simplification with regard to the calculation of the average capital position in order to calculate the average from the capital position at the beginning and end of the tax period, which will eliminate certain anomalies in tax controls. It also brings a number of administrative burdens. The objective pursued by the complementing of the Institute of Thin Capitalisation is, above all, to protect the tax base and also to simplify administrative matters. The novelty also provides for the tax treatment of revenue or expenditure on debt write-offs in enforcement procedures with the Financial Operations Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination. Certain measures introduced by the Amendments to the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons have been presented by the Government in the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme. In both documents which were, by the way, [[Incomprehensible]] The European Commission. Since we believe in the Positive Slovenia Group that the burden of fiscal consolidation must be brought to all segments of society and because we believe that the proposed solution is such that it will not burden the already weak economy, we support the proposal for a novelty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were adopted by the mother's working body to the draft law. On the basis of Article 135, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the SDS Group tabled an amendment to Article 7 or to the final provision of the draft law. We are therefore moving on to a debate on Article 7 of the bill and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 23 September 2013. I will therefore put to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, and I ask that we stick to the debate on Article 7. I'm starting a debate. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two panellists reported. Then we'll put it back in the debate if there's been any problems. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u102	We don't support this amendment. It would be supported if it were to increase, say, economic growth in Slovenia by 3%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alexander Osterman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Since the adoption of the tax reform, that is, since 2006, the income tax has gradually decreased from 25 % to 20 % and then in 2012 we had an 18 % rate, and in 2013 we had a 17 % rate. The new law provided that the tax would be gradually reduced by one percentage point in 2014 and 2015, so that in 2015 the tax would have a 15% tax on the income of legal persons. However, since the State Treasury has also emptied itself in years, the objectives of fiscal consolidation must be pursued. I agree that it would be better for the economy, and also for the economy, for all economic operators, to see that this rate is lower or not at all. Here, however, we must be aware that only economic operators that generate profits do business well in these difficult times, they are only committed or committed to all economic operators, but only those who make profits do so. So let me mention here that there is no claim that our government is raising taxes. Our government simply wants to stabilise this tax in question. It is also important to stress that we are also following the rest of the European Union, which, at the time of the recession, halted the fall in taxes as well as the tax mentioned. Let me mention that in the Czech Republic, the 19 % rate of this tax, in Germany is 25 %, in Austria and Italy is 23 %. Thus, we can say that we have one of the lowest rates in the European Union. The difference between nominal and effective tax rates should also be mentioned. If the nominal tax rate is 17 %, it is effective with regard to subsidies and only 12 % relief. So the idea that our government is sifting the economy by stabilising this tax is by no means true. In Positive Slovenia and we will support this tax ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew the Vranic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. With the proposed amendment, both essential substantive solutions to the bill are suspended by the application of the law at a time when economic growth in Slovenia will exceed 3% of gross domestic product. This means that, at the moment when the tax administration perceives irregularities in the financing of debt capital compared to co-financing with equity, it will not be possible to address irregularities that have been detected because the provision in the law allows that even in the area of corporate income tax, the tax base may be unduly reduced. This will also essentially limit the possibility that measures to improve tax collection should avoid any future increase in nominal tax burdens. However, the late entry into force of Article 60 of the bill would, in fact, still have a lower tax rate in the following year. However, once we achieved 3% economic growth, this tax rate would suddenly rise to 17%. It takes into account the content of the proposed amendment, we cannot support these proposed amendments to the proposed law, as the proposed amendment destroys the objectives that we want to achieve through the proposal for a law. I regret that my introductory debate has been assessed as indicating the damage to the state budget, but we must be aware that the enforcement of tax reliefs, which means so-called tax spending, is actually indirect ensuring that certain funds are kept in the economy and are not collected into the state budget. Last year, as I have already said, almost 200 million R & D incentives and almost 430 million investment aids were for regular or regular investments. These solutions are maintained in the coming year and can also be expected to reduce the tax liability of taxpayers for approximately EUR 110, 111 million, as in this year, assuming that the extent of the application of such reliefs will remain unchanged. Therefore, when we weigh which measure is less harmful to the economy, or the retention of the tax rate at the existing level, or the intervention in tax reliefs, as recommended by some international organisations, the International Monetary Fund and also the European Commission, we had to decide on a less bad solution, that is to keep the tax rate. We suggest that the amendment is not supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Since there was still a desire for a debate, I am reopening the debate and inviting you to apply. The debate is open. Thank you very much. Seven panellists have been reported. Mr. Andrey Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u108	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would point out that the most effective fight against the grey economy is the reduction of taxes, as this attracts all those who engage illegally either in an activity or avoid tax revenue. Of course, in some ways we attract them to do so legally. If we upgrade low tax burdens by effective action or control, we can actually significantly reduce the grey economy. This government has predicted a conflict with the grey economy, but at the same time it does not accept this basic logic. This logic can also bring more tax revenues at lower tax rates at the final stage, as there are, of course, more taxpayers and, of course, more tax. It is said that more payers can be collected at lower rates than more than those who still pay the tax. Therefore, I believe that the worst message of this proposal from the Government and of course our amendment, which seeks to eliminate this government proposal at least next year, is to maintain the decline in the general tax rate, as it was intended, to 16% next year. I really can't understand that this basic logic in the government is not known. Despite some sworn fight, in particular some coalition parties here, you are consciously sworn to maintain this tax rate to 17% and do not swear that this rate would gradually decline over the next two years. I also agree with all those who say that, publicly speaking, this government measure is relatively symbolic because the tax collected on the income of legal persons is decreasing and will continue to decline in the future with such a government policy. But it's an important bad and negative message. In past tax reforms, the government has committed itself to reducing the general tax rate to a favourable 15 per cent tax rate, which is being annulled today, despite the fact that the economy is still in recession and despite the absence of any foreign direct investment. If we look a little bit at the actions of the government of Alenka Bratušek in this relatively short period of six months, we can find ten, about ten, I counted them, additional burdens for the economy, or at least obstacles to decline, such as this particular case, the burden on the economy, as has been suggested so far. The first thing is to raise the VAT rate from 8 1/2 to 9 1/2, higher from 20 to 22. Then another thing that is tanning in particular the agricultural economy or part of the agricultural-related economy is the higher cadastral income for next year by 10%, which was confirmed by the novelty. Then the Luck Tax Act, 10 % of the sales value of the tickets, is a new tax. Third of all, court fees are auctioned. Then, in the case of public procurement, the fees shall be increased when the audit application is lodged. Then it is predicted what is already a fact, obviously a new real estate tax, which will have a drastic impact on the tax burden of the economy as well as others. Then seven is this concrete measure that is before us today. This is said to mean that the general rate of corporate income tax is maintained at 17 %, although it would gradually decrease to 15% under the applicable law. Then, at the next point, we have the abolition of this automatic coordination of the amounts of tax reliefs and income scales, which can only mean two. Whether there will be lower net wages or higher labour costs or gross wages on the same net salaries. There is no other result of that proposal that we will continue to consider. Then we also have an announced health reform, an increase in contributions for some categories. And as a tenth, we have a price hike for both passenger cars, for good 10% and for vans used mainly by the economy, by more than 100%. 10 measures, respected Secretary of State, which all negatively affect the economy. Our economy is one of the few that is still in recession. Given that the European economy is already recovering, I really cannot understand that this is how you have tackled the crisis and thus you swear to start the economy in this way. This government has clearly tackled the problem in a way that virtually none in the European Union is burdening the economy further, giving up further cuts in the public sector and thus seeking to balance public finances. This may appear to be a success at the time of the budget adopted, and in fact it will prove to be an even bigger hole in the coming year, because this way the economy will only walk, create less and consequently reduce tax inflows. Your Honor! With the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to make this crazy, I must say, the fiscal frenzy of the government slightly lessened, we want to prevent further interventions into the environment, both tax and other environmental conditions in this country, which clearly does not produce economic fruits, and we also want to make it clear that the economy requires growth measures, not measures to die of the economy. If we're going to go on like this, God help us all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! We are slowly drawing up the concept of economic recovery or the promotion of economic growth and the creation of a better business environment than this government understands. And I understand that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is only one of the laws or of 338 negative measures to improve the business environment. In fact, this amendment seeks to mitigate this negative action at least a little bit, perhaps even to turn a negative omen into a positive omen, so it makes sense that this amendment is supported. The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. I wonder when we will start in Slovenia, if I may say so, to honor two important values, as far as economic growth is concerned, these are savings and entrepreneurship. However, savings are, of course, a matter of expenditure on the state budget. The problem is that the burdens of the economy are only increasing to add up. Comrade Visjak had previously listed a number of measures, a number of taxes that burden the economy. There's a new one coming. The economy and I myself are extremely concerned that it will only bring real estate tax. By calling on my colleagues and colleagues to support this amendment, and this negative action by the government, at least a little neutralisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! This proposal submitted by the Government to the National Assembly is an important message for the Slovenian economy. An important message in this sense that the economy can expect their situation to be worse and worse under this government. This has been mentioned several times in my previous debaters, and the Secretary of State has also mentioned that this proposal does not raise the corporate income tax. Don't hold it. We're in the middle of a promotion. Not by lowering or stopping the tax rate, but by so-called thin capitalisation, which many do not understand very well because it is a complex institution, but the State Secretary has made this very clear in the language used by the Ministry of Finance. She said it would protect the tax base. Protecting the tax base in the language of the financiers means raising the tax. Businesses or companies will not be able to fully consider as a taxly recognised interest on leased loans in certain cases. I agree that this institution is needed because in practice there have been many instances of circumvention, particularly in large multinationals. But what the Ministry has now done with this amendment means that it has made it easier for itself to work in control, which is now possible for all those trying to play the law to catch in control, but on the other hand it has made life bitter for many, many small businesses. Exactly to those small businesses to which the Mag. On the other hand, the stepfather promises EUR 500 million of some funds, subsidies, guarantees and so on. Exactly these companies will be affected in these cases, if taken into account, I have no doubt that you will vote on such a bill, this proposal. And in this respect, the tax base is being substantially raised, this is a tax burden for small businesses. Look, the situation of the Slovenian economy is really bad, as many have said. In its 2012 reports, IAPES notes that the business situation of companies has deteriorated significantly, that their net profit is compared to the previous year, this is said to have fallen to only one third in 2011. This is said to be almost nothing more than tax collection. While the tax revenues under this heading are falling, the tax rate is the least significant. Why is tax revenue falling? Because there is no tax base from which the tax could be charged. And it is true that these 22 million euros are symbolic, although every million in this situation comes in handy, but I have already made a comparison on the committee of how much this 22 million euro represents. EUR 18 million will be allocated by the State only to improve records and information bases on the Geodetic Authority. This is almost as much as the corporate income tax. And everyone who mentions that the effective tax rate in Slovenia is very low is true, but it is partial viewing. It means not to see the forest, but to look at just one tree. You have also, in the past, compared tax rates, other taxes with other countries and argued that this is relatively low in our country. Take Hungary, for example, which you have also given in case they have a VAT rate of 27% and we are 22%. Here. But you also forgot to say that there is a single tax rate in Hungary and that all income is taxed at 16% and that they do not know any scale. This is what you say when you operate on these data on low taxation of the economy and also people in Slovenia, you need to look at the whole. It does not claim that taxes in Slovenia are low. Why, then, would the Economic Chamber, on behalf of the economy, continue to point out that tax burdens should be reduced. A few days ago we had such a minor incident in the National Assembly concerning the comment on the document prepared by the Chamber of Commerce, Oxygen for the Economy. I hope then you've all read it and you've noticed that it's divided into four sets. First of all, the economy expects tax relief. On the contrary, what we are doing today, or what you are doing today, because we will not support such solutions, we believe they are harmful to the economy, and we believe that they will not lead the economy into the path of re-development and recovery of their operations. The fact is that this makes the competitiveness of the economy worse. The fact is that we are signaling that we are not prepared to make any additional effort on the budget expenditure side to see where there are any other reserves, where more expenditure can be reduced mainly at the expense of rationalisation, for example in the public sector, and I am not just referring to wage cuts. Above all, I am referring here to the irrational consumption of public procurement. Many of the manoeuvres are still here and, on the other hand, this government, as my colleague Andrej Vizjak has already said, is actually taking the path or line of least resistance and directly or indirectly burdens the economy and burdens the population. Moreover, the reasons why this is so, many times the hair is drawn, incomplete and misleading. And that's the explanation today. Once again, it is not true that this proposal does not raise the tax burden of the economy. We raise it in a very subtle and sophisticated way, so that some of the expenditure will not be recognised as taxable. And because they won't be recognised, of course, the tax will be higher. I just want our economy to recover in the coming years with your other measures that you are proposing, so that in two years from the same economy that we are squeezing down our necks today we can at least collect some more taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič is next reported for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Honorable representatives of the Government or the Ministry of Finance. The corporate income tax is maintained to 17% and the plan of the former government will not be implemented to bring this tax down to 15% by 2015. This move would also reduce the grey economy, black work, as it would attract those who now have to use such activities to survive at all. But what is the reason why the corporate income tax is maintained to 17%? The law says, looking for new resources for the budget. So another one of those items, which fall within one third of the budgetary consolidation measures. Interestingly, this part of the Government's desire, unfortunately, to increase its budget income, goes very well. You are far less successful in those two-thirds which are designed to rationalise public spending. In this area, there has not been any coalition coordination, and we do not know about it in the Slovenian People's Party. What do you tell abroad? What do you tell foreign investors with this decision? You report that Slovenia has not fulfilled its commitments or its promises that it made a year ago. Last year, this measure was also one of those measures that worked towards improving the business environment. A good year ago, it was also heard from the economy, among other things, that due to the reduction in taxes and the concessions adopted in the previous year, the environment has not been so favourable to investment for a long time. You're stopping this today. In the Slovenian People's Party, we can only oppose this law. Although it also regulates some other more marginal matters that are useful, the general message is wrong. You are again engaged in companies where thousands and thousands of Slovenian workers are working hard today, which do not care whether they have a job tomorrow or lose it because their owner will move to one of the neighbouring tax-favoured countries. With the law you are again hitting small businesses run by craftsmen, small entrepreneurs who may be creating new jobs from garages and holding this country up and who are most vulnerable in these times because they do not have their natural allies in politics as any other Struklje Group. The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The next one is a mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State with colleagues and you, Members and Members of Parliament! It is true that the Government should not send any laws that undermine the conditions for the economy to the National Assembly. In order to achieve this goal, we are also working together in the National Gazette. It is also true that this law does not improve conditions, but at least we stop or leave them at the same level. I would much rather vote in favour of freezing or halting a certain tax than hanging it. In 2006, we heard that there was a tax reform, and since then this tax has been reduced from 25% to 17% today. If this tax on the income of legal persons were to start an economy, for a good business environment, then today we would not be faced with the problem of reducing or losing jobs. For example, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia calculated that from December 2008 to July 2013 we lost 81 jobs every working day in the Slovenian economy. This also shows that only lowering the profit tax is unfortunately not the right way and that in Slovenia today we have an increasing number of companies not dealing with how they will redistribute or cash in profits, but are meeting to survive from day to day. And here I expect from the government an even stronger boost in helping businesses in difficulty and, above all, in decommissioning at labour costs. For this reason, I will support this law today because only the suspension of the tax reduction has been recommended by international organisations, including the OECD. For this reason, I will not support the amendment of colleagues from the Social Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Aljoša Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let us repeat immediately at this point the corporate tax rate in other countries, following which we are also following: the Netherlands and Belgium 35%, Germany 25%, Italy and Austria have a tax of 23%. The OECD warns that such a low tax rate is already at the lower acceptable limit. Furthermore, the OECD continues to see a large share of the benefits that we have for companies in the Republic of Slovenia for research and development as huge. As we know, the sum of corporate income tax with the mentioned generous research and development incentives showed that the real rate of corporate income tax in 2012 was around 12%. As we know, the growth of economic activity as soon as possible is essential to solving our public financial problems. Given the real rate of 12 % of corporate taxation, it can be clear to all that further reductions in this rate will not help to increase economic activity. The problem of economic activity lies elsewhere in the inability of our economy to compete with products and services of high added value. Of course, there are bright exceptions to praise. Such a problem does not even lie in per cent higher or lower rate of profit tax, the problem is that there is no profit in some companies at all. For companies that are concerned about how to get to work and thus profit, profit tax is not a problem at all. I believe all these companies really want this problem because it would mean that they would have profit in business. Mr Visjak, who is not here now, advocated in his debate the thesis that the grey economy is being pursued by a 1% lower corporate income tax. Now, if we follow his theory, then it would be best that there are no taxes to fight against the grey economy at all, which would mean that there would not even be a gray economy. Of course, this theory is not true, as the grey economy is shrinking mainly through a successful detection system. We are particularly aware of this in Positive Slovenia and follow in detail the Government's actions in this area, for which it has all our support and encouragement. There's plenty of room here for improvement. However, the debate of the Members of the parties that have brought this country into this situation in which we are is truly incredible. With what face can they criticize the measures that this government is now taking for the situation that these same parties have brought us into. I do not agree with the proposed amendment, but I support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. More mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much. If we look at tax revenues in previous years or between 2004 and 2008, then we can see what can be done by lowering tax revenues rates. Indeed, something else is worrying here in this law and also in the next law; despite the fact that this rate will remain 17%, corporate income tax revenues will fall or fall in the 2014 budget by 74 million. There will be 100 million less taxes on goods and services, which in other words means that revenue for 17 million euros will be less than planned. On the other hand, we introduce new taxes, we increase the current rates, we expand the tax base or we increase the tax base, we burden people more, we burden the economy more. Therefore, it is extremely worrying that on the one hand there is an increase in tax rates, on the other hand new taxes are introduced, such as the Lucky Tax, the Drinking Tax, and the revenue is falling, which means that even higher tax rates do not increase revenue and in fact means that the economy, the population is stagnation when it is only more and more taxed and, on the other hand, the country does not have any income. This is not the right policy for reviving the economy, it is not the right policy for people to live better, the country will take more and more. Such a wrong policy means that in the end there will be no corporate income tax because there will be no profit. That's what the data we're talking about here shows. If we are talking about taxes in Slovenia now, of course we can say that the effective rate is 12% and so on, but the international institutions of Slovenia are one of the most taxed countries, if not the other, we have taxes on wages or along with contributions so high that in fact you have to pay one and a half wages on average to pay all these contributions. That's worrying. A comparison of only one segment in the entire tax system can, of course, be problematic, from one point of view can be one way or another, but the signal that taxes in Slovenia will only be bigger and bigger shows that we are going in the wrong direction. On the other hand, if we look at how much investment is here and how many investors are actually going to invest in other countries where it has a more favourable business environment, including the tax environment. I am not saying that only the tax environment here is most appropriate. If we look at the drop in excise duties; the drop in excise duties means the policy of this government and the taxation of oil and petroleum derivatives with excise duties and value added taxes. What's going on? Traffic is falling, people are buying oil or gasoline in other countries where prices are the same, for example in Austria, and we are becoming a transit country, and no one stops here and no one even buys gas because we are actually too expensive. The drop in income and the increase in rates, but now this is a school case of how not to work. This is a school case. It is probably also familiar with the so-called Laffer curve, which provides that at a certain tax rate, incomes simply begin to decline. But in fact, the government will not receive any more revenue, the deficit will be very difficult to keep at the level proposed, but of course it will be in debt. Well, that's been easy for now. The question is whether it will be that easy in the future. That's why we're going to talk again tomorrow about a law that means a small circuit in this debt. But this is not a policy that will lead us in a direction where there will be no more crisis. There will be more bankruptcy, more and more unemployed and fewer people will want to have a business, it will want to create, but if they have businesses, then they will probably go to another, more friendly country. So these trends of this government, Alenka Bratusek, are worrying and, of course, do not lead from the crisis, but are exacerbating the crisis in the country. When we talk about the property tax, which will tax businesses, now I am talking about the economy, then the burden will be so great that it will simply not be possible to operate in this country. That's what you should be paying attention to. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have proposed an amendment to ease these issues, of course by the coalition this amendment will not be supported. We have done this because the economy would have a breath, so that it can actually, I will say, go in the direction of greater economic growth and, of course, also greater profits. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Since there's still a desire to discuss it, I'm just gonna open up an opportunity to apply. Here you go. I'm opening up an application. Five other panellists have been reported. The first one has the word mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the budget needs to be stabilised, only the question is how. Obviously, we spend more than we create. I propose another tax. Because obesity is harmful, I propose a tax on large bellies. The man who has a belly over the breast line will pay an extra tax, and the woman who has a belly that is seven centimeters for the breast line also pays. This is about the way airlines began to think about paying more for those passengers who have more than two pounds [10 kg]. You're smiling a little bit, because that was the intention, Mr Secretary of State, that was the intention! You know, that kind of nonsense is this tax or this measure. Of course, I will support the amendment, which is why? Look, I really feel like we're in such a crisis in this country, because the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. Brian Tracy wrote in his book The Way to Success – we would like to be a successful country, I would like to have a successful company once again, we just have to do something about it – he wrote: “Success is like a lock if you turn the right numbers in the right order, you open.” This does not depend on the color of the skin, not on education, nor on nationality, nor on the country in which you were born, from nothing other than the right order. And we have the sequence completely wrong. Look, I'm always wondering if that's how we hate ourselves – here in Parliament, I'm going to speak in concrete terms. Yeah, and the money for our wages, your wages don't come from the Treasury. In the economy! And we're smothering him all the time. I don't know how to connect that. This morning, this morning, I was in two companies in Maribor; one has over a century tradition, and one is about 20 years old, just like Slovenia. Metal-processing industry. If you are interested, I will write to you about what people say about taxes — the wrong way! See, when we speak – one of the following points will have a big mouth, that we need to create a stable business environment in Slovenia and if we constantly destabilise it! [[...]] Someone made a plan a few years ago and took on this plan, a business plan, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u123	Mr. Vogrin, I'm sorry, we stick to Article 7 and the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u124	Madam President, this is exactly what we are choking the economy. Why? Now I'm gonna get to the point. Someone took a loan and calculated how much the tax would pay and counted it to pay 15% this year and now it will be 17% and will no longer be able to repay the loan. Look. We are an unserious country, we have an unstable business environment, which everyone tells us in turn. This is one of the measures that this economy does not need. All Economists — Help! Let's stop destroying him. Let's stop choking him. Because you know, we give a little help here and there. This is all wrong. Let us collect less taxes, relieve the economy, and treat these taxes responsibly. To finish, I, too, am not in favour of lowering wages in the public sector. For seven hundred euros, as much as people in this Parliament, professional services, no one can work seriously. We need to raise wages, make order in the public sector, relieve the economy and start a key to success. I listened very well to Mrs. Romano Tomc. I hope that there will be an economic minister in the next government because she has precisely diagnosed our problems. Just like our colleague Majda Potrate said, we don't hear from each other, you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you for saying a nice hello again. I myself will be happy to support the amendment that has been proposed. I think it is going in the right direction, so we are not at a time when investments or low taxes are overheating our economy, but it is necessary to encourage people to create, work and have a stable tax environment, as already mentioned here. As long as this tax cannot be left alone, it is said to be falling to a 15% rate, at least this amendment is the one that will try to solve this mess in crisis years. Today, we have also heard from the State Secretary, by a representative of the coalition, to follow the OECD recommendations. I do not know how much time you have spent on these recommendations – or just enough time to read the proportion of where there is a tax to collect – has been completely missed by that report that talks about public sector costs, public sector efficiency, labour market rigidity, the unsustainable pension system, the necessity of health reform, the rehabilitation of the banking system, regulation of state-owned enterprises, privatisation and so on. These reports are very extensive, as well as the stability programme, which is summarised following a number of recommendations from both the OECD and the Commission, as well as in some ways the route already scheduled for last year. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, what is coming to this House? That was already said. If we add up all of these taxes, which add up the taxation of the Slovenian economy as individuals, this is for about 500 million euros in new taxes. The two largest, VAT and real estate taxes are the two that will fill a large part of this amount and the remaining taxes that colleagues Vizjak previously counted. What is the wrong message and why, when it comes to tax, where the financial consequences are only 20 million, we are wasting too much time and similar words I have heard today and also on the committee where we have dealt with this tax. This is because we simply serve in these procedures one by one laws, taxing the Slovenian economy, Slovenian individuals, other measures, which I have previously mentioned and should also follow these recommendations, and we simply do not implement them. I am firmly convinced that the path we are taking is a path that, in the economic sense, is the soul of the ideas of those who are willing to make for Slovenia to create new value. As Comrade Vogrin said, most of the time when you're walking on business, they say, "Leave us alone to work in peace." And we don't allow that, and with this tax, where this 20 million might be really symbolic of someone, we're just adding one of the stones to the mosaic of decomposition of this system of ours. That is why I think the path we are taking with this tax is completely wrong; the path that does not lead Slovenia to an exit from this crisis, but we will only deepen this crisis. All too much in these calculations that we're getting, some accounting logic, where just some amount is multiplying by some scale, too little dynamic view of what this is going to entail, and as we can see from these numbers, we simply have these tax bases, of which these percentages count, so land that we should think about it and also take measures in this direction. It is simply in these days alone, once again, that I cannot pass over this feeling that we are obviously very few in Parliament to draw attention to this matter. Those who will be most affected by these receptions do not have loud speakers who, either on the street or through the media, would point to these problems that will arise and simply go through this country only those measures that are at first sight the least painful and for which there is consensus in the coalition. Unfortunately, in this coalition, I do not see a party thinking about the need to create and then to collect taxes from the created and also to establish an advanced and development-oriented country. I see we're all looking for this math, how to collect more taxes. This chicken, which should have borne these eggs for a long time, will continue to lose its feathers and even with what we are doing today, we are touching from this, with feathers quite rare chickens just an extra feather. I object to this, which is why I have also repeatedly voiced a public call: for God's sake, let us put on a table a complex package, a package of revenue, a package of expenditure and a table, all partners, such as the coalition, opposition, unions and employers, and look for those measures that will be balanced, which will give the future and for which we will eventually unite and also advocate together. In this way, we will take measures that will certainly not be easy. Now we're going this easy way, and I'm afraid that this mathematics, on the basis of which you calculated, how much real estate tax next year, how much tax from this law, how much of the collected taxes, or less of the grey economy, will simply not come out; even less will it come out when the end of October, such as forecasts, comes from Slovenian banks and it will also be necessary for those who lend us money to ask what kind of price they're still willing to give us. I think we are taking the country in the wrong direction, so I will not support the law, but I fear that the amendment that we will gladly support will not be adopted by the coalition that has decided to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavlišič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. I agree with Mr Visionak and his opposition colleagues. The Laffer curve shows us what he wanted to say, but if we are already using this scientific approach across the Laffer curve, we must also look here at the fact that, in this particular tax, the corporate income tax to which this amendment applies and this law, which we are talking about here today, at its 12% effective rate, somehow means that we are on the left side of the Laffer curve. In short, it would be difficult to refer to this curve here when we apologize for this change. This, unfortunately, does not apply to certain other taxes, probably VAT as well as, above all, labour taxation. And here my resentment goes to a certain extent to the Ministry, that in all these proposals we are not aware of this information, that we would actually have an individual tax displayed also on the Laffer curve to know whether it is true or not. Here, I think that the profession should do much better in this respect, not only in terms of what these amounts mean for the budget itself. Of course, I also share the view that taxes in Slovenia are generally too high. I have performed several times in the National Assembly from this position, unfortunately unsuccessfully, but I do not think that this tax is the biggest problem as well, but we must look at taxes differently between ourselves and say that the problem is bigger, with a smaller problem. Here I think we have a particular problem with the very taxation of work, especially on contributions from work. This is not how I support this amendment, but the law, as I said before, I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Prevc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! I am also announcing myself, in particular, to say that I will support this amendment to Article 7, which will not contribute to any substantive improvement in the law itself, but will delay the implementation of this law for at least one year or until the economic rise and the economy improves. Simply because I do not support this law, because this is the law, which we have heard several times today, which has had negative consequences for improving the business environment. When we returned from our parliamentary holidays, I was confident that the Government would surprise us that the government would push these benches with the measures it had promised, in particular measures to improve economic growth, measures to boost economic growth, measures to improve the business environment, measures to promote competitiveness, measures to attract as many investors as possible, because we know that investors are the ones that contribute to the greater employment they could employ to enable young people not to go abroad. The main argument of the coalition in this law is that the rate of taxation is low enough because it is more than comparable to other countries. This is how you discussed some fellow Members before me. Dear colleagues, do you really think these countries are really comparable to Slovenia? These countries, which have a higher rate, let me just list Austria, Finland, Germany, Belgium, Great Britain and say France with 15% tax for small businesses and so on – do you really think that these countries are comparable to us, that we want to be even at the tax rate? Have these countries fallen on a competitiveness scale like Slovenia for the fifth year in a row? Do these countries have problems with over-complicated procedures and state bureaucracy, as we have in Slovenia? Are these countries over-taxed? Do these countries have problems with lack of foreign investment? I don't think so, or I'm sure you don't. It is therefore very difficult to understand this main argument of yours that there is no effect in further reducing the rate of taxation on the income of legal persons. I really don't get it. All these countries, which I have listed and have a higher tax rate than we have in other areas, also have, as we know, a very stable business, judicial and political environment; and that is what counts. The entrepreneur who comes to that country has no need to fear that the courts will not react, that the government will change for half a year or so. Unfortunately, we cannot guarantee this yet, but we can offer the investor something else, including more favourable taxation of what he will create with his investment, if he already provides jobs for our citizens on the other hand. Unfortunately, this law does not. That is why, of course, I do not support this law, but I support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you, too. The next one with the word is Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State! When I came to the National Assembly, I said that I would avoid demagogic debates, but sometimes it is difficult to listen when things happen in a way that talks about everything else, just not the point of the agenda – that is, the system of taxes and incentives for businesses and so on, as this would be a broader debate. But today, specifically, when we talk about this tax, we can only be so honest, and we say, "What are the facts of grossness?" What was the tax for companies in 2012? 18%. What's the tax this year? 17%. And if what you're proposing with the amendment, what kind of tax would it be for the second year? 16%. And when would this tax be implemented? You know, the tax is collected at the end of the year, except for those specimens that have a calculated deposit and pay in advance, i.e. during the flight. Third thing. The tax does not increase because today it has been repeatedly said that it is increasing — not increasing, but decreasing. Next thing. Speaking of this tax, I said earlier in my presentation of the position of the parliamentary group why we left, say, that crowd of people who might actually have an impact on the smaller grey economy, and these are independent entrepreneurs who are not concerned with this tax. He won't touch them at all. And to be honest. Today, when some of you are so vehemently defending the economy, you are defending capital owners and capital owners want the tax to be as low as possible. Do we want to make Slovenia a tax haven? Then let's say we bring down Cyprus to 10%, then maybe 5%, or we just cancel it. These discussions are indeed going on, as if our economy survives or dies from them – they are a little degulant to me. Another thing about other taxes that were so much talk about today. So far, the government has proposed and the National Assembly has accepted only one tax increase, which is VAT. A tax on gambling has already been proposed by the previous government. The procedure was already, it was already in the first reading, we had already passed through and also paid a tax on drinking, not to talk about the discarded package of some selective taxes – where it should be from hairdressing services to animal food and so on. This means that we are not talking about the fact that the former government has also adopted a tax on financial transactions, but you will never say that the former government is anything No, the former government has only reduced taxes. [[...]] Isn't that right? Let's talk honestly! It is true that the law has negative consequences for the economy. That's not true! As a result of this law, once again, there are no negative consequences because the tax is essentially lower than what we have had so far. And I could talk about a lot of things, even the real estate tax. We support the property tax, we support it because it is a system tax and it will establish a certain order in the country. So far, we have had such a system that, say, compensation for building land, some municipalities have not introduced themselves to their electorate. Of course they didn't, because they didn't need it because they got a financial settlement from the state anyway. If she had so much less original income, she got so much more off-limits from the country. These are the facts of the brutish. And if we do not say that this tax is a system tax — which, by the way, is also the majority of our countries by which we like to imitate ourselves — which practically combines three tax dollars: compensation for building land, property tax, and forest road taxes, or contribution to forest roads. This means that it is actually trying to solve it in some systematic way. Moreover, the discussion on the appropriate coefficients for each economic activity or for individual types of real estate should be to eliminate some illogicality, to eliminate these valuations, which has now been done, on average now that these real estate prices have been reduced from 25% to 30%, and then to actually negotiate, but not prioritise: no. In this country it is so that everyone, every interested group, stands up like a cat on its back legs and triggers claws: not with us, let it be found there; not with us, not with us, not with them, and so on. We keep making excuses. Once again, I would really like to discuss this particular matter. This rate of this tax, which is such as it is, has already been said here by colleague Hočevar that it was one of the OECD recommendations. Also, when something is right with us, the OECD is very much encouraged to give us such and different recommendations. But when we don't, we overexamine him. It's not like that. I also understand that the opposition must be fueled by coalition. But that doesn't mean you can use manipulation, lies, and misinformation. Once again, we will support this change of law in Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you. You've got the word all of you who've been reported. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 7? I find that there are no applications, so I am concluding the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 21st item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the Act on Income. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, however, I first give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Mitji Mavku, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much and very much to all present! As stated at the end of August, the Government in the National Assembly forwarded a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, which introduces changes in five key areas. First, and I believe that the biggest debate will be the implementation of the measure on the revenue side of the budget with a view to gradual fiscal consolidation, as defined by the Government in the stability programme this year and in the national reform programme. In this context, it is proposed to amend the harmonisation of tax reliefs and tax bases for the assessment of income from automatic indexation, as now provided for in the Income Act, into ad hoc indexation, which would be laid down in the annual law on the implementation of the budget for each year. The second objective of the bill before you today is to comply with the amendments to the new system laws, notably the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Labour Relations Act. Furthermore, the law aims to comply with the EU acquis and the Agreement on the European Economic Area. The fourth point I would like to draw attention to is the abolition of the anti-constitutional nature established by the Constitutional Court, namely Article 113, paragraph 5, of the Income Act, which provides for a specific tax exemption for migrant workers. The Government's proposal is and the Government's opinion is that the only way to eliminate the anti-constitution found is to delete the said facilitation. It is estimated that the proposal for a law in 2014 will result in an annual increase in the revenue of the state budget of around EUR 33 million. If you now allow some more detailed clarifications in particular regarding the elimination of automatic indexation of tax incentives and net annual tax base in the income scale. As you know, the existing law of indexing binds to the growth of living needs. With regard to the new proposal for a law, it is worth stressing that the indexation itself is not being abolished but is very important; automatic indexation is transforming it into an ad hoc indexation which will take into account the broader economic policy objectives for each year, introducing the possibility of indexation in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for each year. The government considers that the current indexation, which is linked to one criterion, is a criterion for increasing the prices of living needs, in some ways limits the possible other indexing mechanisms and would like to provide a bit more room for manoeuvre here in accordance with economic policy and to take into account other criteria and conditions for indexation. Given the time when automatic indexation was established, the situation has changed considerably in our view. Inflation rates in Slovenia are significantly lower than they used to be, wage growth is halting and it is estimated that the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development will see a lower salary drop this year compared to the previous year. Therefore, in the final opinion, it would be appropriate to replace automation with ad hoc indexation relating to the situation in each individual year. So many introductorys. In view of the presentation, we would propose that today the adoption of the decision be supported that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you to the Secretary of State for introducing the bill. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u136	Respected and respected! The key novelty of this law, with which the Government wants to save around €30 million in expenditure in 2014, is the cessation of automatic harmonisation of the income scale and tax incentives with inflation growth. The Government is therefore pursuing the objectives of fiscal consolidation as set out in the 2013 Stability Programme. Even though the Social Democrats understand this purpose of the Government, we insist that this measure is only meaningful in the period when we record low inflation and low economic growth, when wages do not rise and there is also no increase in inflation, i.e. increases in living costs. However, we have a problem with permanently cancelling the coordination of tax reliefs and income scales with inflation in the light of crisis situations. While the government proposes that this coordination instead of statistical coordination should be linked to the adoption of the Budget Implementation Act on a case-by-case basis. We believe that this is a more difficult and difficult path. Therefore, even if we understand the need to understand that, in a short period of time, when the objectives of fiscal consolidation so require, we do not understand that we would give up coordination, which is carried out in a significantly easier way, when we identify through statistical categories the simple fact that we have inflation and that it is also necessary to correct the income scale and facilitations for this inflation. Therefore, in the next debate, we will try to penetrate the idea that this non-coordination measure would be time-limited, in a way that binds it to a relaunching of economic growth, a similar solution, as we have already established, is true, for example, in the coordination of social transfers or elsewhere. So, at a time when our economy is starting to grow again for at least two-and-a-half percent economic growth. We would point out that the Government has made a mistake, namely, when dealing with temporary retirement, and in view of the changes that have been made in the Labour Relations Act, we will endeavour to ensure that these solutions are also implemented in this legislation. Therefore, by means of an appropriate amendment, the text of the law will be corrected by giving equal treatment in the tax system for the termination of a fixed-term employment contract, such as the application of a fixed-term retirement benefit in the event of the early termination of an indefinite-term contract. The third set of amendments concerns the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision concerning the situation of residents of the Republic of Slovenia who work in other countries. Here, in particular, Austria is at the forefront of our attention, where today, for economic and social reasons, it is forced to look for its opportunities in the labour market for thousands and thousands of our citizens and citizens. We social democrats have always been advocates of a special tax relief, by which we have tried to balance their income position and with special tax relief to grant these people rights arising from differences in income treatment, for example in Austria and Slovenia. We understand that the Constitutional Court has asked the National Assembly to settle this issue. But it seems to be the easiest, though not least painful, solution ahead of us, and this is that before 1 C.E. 1. 2014 given that the tax treatment is fixed for the whole calendar year, this issue will be addressed in a way that will eliminate the specific tax relief. Social Democrats are not convinced that all options have been used in previous procedures, all reflections on the meaningful regulation of this issue. As we have already warned on some occasions in the past, we want Slovenia and Austria to address this issue at an appropriate bilateral level with an appropriate inter-State agreement. We are aware, however, that such coordination at country level takes time and that it is not possible for such a solution to come to life before 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So before the year in which the Constitutional Court requires the application of the Constitutional Court decision. So, at this point, we understand the Government, but as those who have always shown understanding and also sought solutions to the situation of migrants, we want to be sure that we will consider all options that would not further deteriorate the social situation of migrant workers, but also, on the other hand, that all residents in this country would be treated equally. That is why we will also support the proposed law in this consideration, and we look forward to further coordination and the search for the best solutions on all three issues. Some of these solutions were directed both by the social partners and by some other ministries, as well as by civil labour migrant initiatives, which, in order to constructively propose creative solutions to address their situation, have also been properly organised and have already addressed their demands and expectations to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you, too. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. The new Income Law introduces the same principle as that applicable to corporate income tax, so that taxation remains somehow the same. In the case of income, of course, this means that the amounts of tax classes and allowances are unchanged. The amendment of the law thus eliminates automatic indexation and will continue to be possible, at the same time as the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget. In addition, we provide that the payment of the social security contribution is an income relief for certain benefits where this has not been applied so far, in particular in copyright and contract work. The new law also regulates the payment of occupational pensions which will be treated as other pensions, and in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, we also eliminate the inequality in the treatment of certain taxpayers. In the Civil Gazette, we estimate that it is one of the millions of forms of providing additional money to cover the budget hole with the aim of fiscal consolidation, so we will support the reception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you, too. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Slovenia has recently witnessed killings in various areas. The basketball players inspired us by killing us in baskets at the last European championship, and the government is slightly less inspiring us by killing and beating ever-new taxes and taxes on taxpayers' wallets. VAT hikes, real estate taxes, corporate burdens by halting the drop in income tax, and the projected increase in contribution rates for independent entrepreneurs and a bunch of smaller taxes, such as those higher when registering a car, are currently under consideration by the new Income Act. At the flood of all these new duties that fall on the shoulders of citizens, the question arises: Do you really and honestly think that our citizens, not those with hidden bank accounts in tax havens, but workers and farmers, are truly able to bear the burdens that you constantly impose on them? Dear colleagues and colleagues! If you continue to do so, it will not only break Slovenian finances, but also break the Slovenian nation under the weight of the burden. The regulation of the financial situation in our country should not be on the shoulders of those who are already looking at every euro they have, but as you have committed yourself to in the stability programme: 2/3 measures to manage expenditure, i.e. with a more rational state spending, and only 1/3 on the side of greater burdens to achieve higher revenues. You also have reserves in other areas: consistent collection of what belongs to the country, including in the area of the grey economy, there is still much work to be done in the area of administrative burdens, and the use of European funds in the area of public procurement rationalisation. In doing so, we must never forget the return of all the property that has been seized by various tycoons in all these years by our country for its own. Do not always take the easiest routes and save the state cash only by raising tax burdens, because such a way of saving can soon return as a boomerang with even greater negative consequences than we are solving today. The Law on Income, which is ahead of us, is also part of this increase in benefits and can be divided into several sets according to its solutions. The first is the abolition of the automatic coordination of relief amounts and the net annual tax base on the income scale by increasing the price of living needs or the measure by which net wages will be reduced, which is why we can talk about the Government simply introducing a crisis tax through these changes. This is a measure which has been strongly opposed by the social partners since the beginning for a measure on which the Government did not even want to negotiate with the social partners. The abolition of automatic coordination means that taxpayers will pay more income, reducing the available income and weakening the purchasing power of the population, reducing gross domestic product as well. The new law also has negative effects in other areas, while reducing the benefits for children, in addition to other measures already taken by the Government, which have a particularly negative impact on families with children, it raises the question of whether this government is leading a family or anti-social policy. Under the second set of solutions to this law we can consider compliance with the new Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Labour Relations Act, which are, of course, necessary, but due to many interventions, it would be right to have a round of discussions with the social partners. I believe that you have been brought to your attention by the part that provides for the extra taxation of emoluments, and the speech was also about the unconstitutional nature of these provisions. It is already worth paying further attention to this part of the package as a result of any such complications and finding appropriate solutions, together with the social partners. Finally, let me touch on the problems affecting thousands of families, mainly from my premurk end, as well as from Prlekia, Styria, Koroška, also Gorenjska - problems of migrant workers. The collapse of many companies, especially in the eastern part of our country, has caused the fear of a social bomb. But people did not surrender to fate, regardless of cultural, linguistic, and other differences, wanting to survive their families, and these people went to work across the border to neighbouring Austria. They did not want to be a burden to their country of Slovenia and to live on social assistance. They just wanted to work. The government of Borut Pahor has imposed a special tax relief on these migrant workers due to extremely high income payments resulting from the fact that the level of wages in another country is higher and the taxation of salaries is relatively lower than in Slovenia. All, including migrant workers, were then aware that it was only a temporary solution and that a different solution would have to be adopted in the future. In the previous government, we actively tried to solve this problem in the Slovenian People's Party, because until then no one in the finance ministry wanted to take time and actually focus on a problem that is quite complex. Former Finance Minister Šuštersič left such a relief in the previous amendment to the Income Act, and we agreed to accelerate the search for a different solution. Unfortunately, because of other circumstances, we were unable to complete our work. This year's Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the fact that tax treatment must be the same for all residents under the Constitution and that special relief is not the appropriate way to solve this problem, decided that a special relief in terms of equality before the law was unconstitutional, which was also expected, as it was also noted in civil associations of migrant workers that it was an inappropriate temporary solution, which must be upgraded and designed differently. So, despite the Constitutional Court's decision, the problem remains. The employer in the neighbouring country pays the gross salary and does not take account of the country in which the employee is registered as a tax resident. Slovenians have to pay an additional tax on Slovenia from their net earnings abroad, in addition to regular tax evasion, and this puts them in a very unequal position on the labour market. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance should once again be invited to take a closer look at the problem, to meet with representatives of migrant workers and to examine whether it is possible to agree with neighbouring countries, in particular in the form of interstate agreements, or to seek a different form of solution from Slovenian workers serving their bread abroad. To conclude, the worst thing for Slovenia is not that the government does nothing, the worst thing for Slovenia is to do something in haste, in hindsight, with one goal: to fill the state budget as quickly as possible. It is devastating for the future of this country to adopt the fastest and easiest solutions without understanding the concept of the problem and, in particular, without being aware of the far-reaching consequences of the decisions taken. We will not support the proposal for a new Law on Income for all the reasons mentioned in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we have already expressed our support for the proposed solutions when reviewing the draft proposal for new income legislation. In principle, we remain in this position today, and we agree with the parts of the proposal relating to the adaptation of the new pension legislation, the new labour law and the alignment with the acquis of the European Union. These would also be key amendments to the bill, according to the proposaler, at the presentation of this law. Indeed, we did not pay any attention to the provisions concerning the abolition of automatic harmonisation of tax reliefs and net tax bases on the scale of the income tax rate by increasing the price of living needs. It is also true that we were not warned by the applicant, which merely referred to compliance with the new labour legislation. Only on the basis of union warnings did we go into this part. At first glance, we can assess that the claims of net salary cuts, which consequently means inhibition of consumption, are not as smooth as some would like to show. The fact is that this, unfortunately, multi-year crisis and its consequences are being solved on the shoulders of a small person, whether it is a worker, a pensioner, an unemployed person, a student or a recipient of social assistance. Throughout the so-called crisis exit measures, the sustainability of the public financial system interferes with the welfare of a small person. And we actually agree with the public when this part is called a covert little crisis tax. While the proposal provided for the possibility of harmonisation within the framework of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, the draft law explicitly spelled out the word "may" which means that there is only a possibility of coordination, but that is not a commitment. Moreover, we strongly doubt that this law is appropriate to deal with this issue. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we estimate that it is not of minor importance; it will affect any taxpayer, so we would expect a more detailed assessment and analysis of what this means in particular. From the explanation of the text of the bill, it is only extremely sketchy data to be found. In view of the above, our position on the proposed amendment is in principle positive, and we will also support it at this stage, with reservations. In the next step, we expect a broader and more thorough interpretation of the proposed amendment and, of course, clearer information based on concrete calculations. Finally, let me commend the efforts of representatives of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, with its President, Karl Erjavac, in taking budgetary measures. Indeed, proposals for drastic cuts to pensions have been withdrawn, but it is true that the suspension of senior relief is envisaged. It was introduced in 2010 and could be used by persons over the age of five-fifty who receive more than three hundred euros. We fully agree with our President that this is a measure that will not affect the rights of the socially disadvantaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Secretary of State with co-workers! Today's proposal for amendments and the supplementation of the Income Act is a new tax burden for natural persons employed. However, the aim of this amendment is exclusively to increase public finances. So, another similar law today. It is therefore a concept of the government and the government coalition, which can only increase tax revenues, in the field of rationalisation and therefore no savings. We know the names for "family-friendly company" companies. We can call the government "an unfriendly government", and this is reflected in this novel of the Income Law. The first novelty is the abolition of the coordination of income relief and net amounts from tax bases in the income scale by increasing the prices of living needs. This will increase the tax liability of practically all taxpayers, about 990 000 of them, including those with a minimum wage. The highest burden of such a change will be borne by taxpayers who receive income of twice the average wage. The tax burden will increase by around €330 per year. Someone earlier said that it was a reduction in the expenditure of the state budget of 30 million euros. What's up? Aren't taxes a matter of income? We do not support such a measure in New Slovenia, as it will only further accelerate the so-called brain drain that has recently gained a truly worrying dimension in Slovenia. In fact, most educated people, especially younger ones, receive wages up to twice the average wage in Slovenia. Due to the increase in tax burdens, net wages will be further reduced and the employment of the best and most promising professionals in Slovenia will become even less interesting than before. In terms of economic competitiveness, the decline in net wages will further reduce the purchasing power of the population and will eliminate the projected increase in fiscal revenues from an increased value tax. The measure is therefore a new hidden tax, which we strongly oppose in Novi Slovenija. Another novelty is the abolition of a special allowance for the income of cross-border labour migrants, which essentially means compliance with the Constitutional Court decision of 29 May 2013. By that decision, the Constitutional Court decided that the fifth paragraph of Article 113 of the Income Act was inconsistent with the Constitution. The principle of equality of all taxpayers should be violated. An essential reason for interfering with the regulation of a specific tax relief for cross-border migrant workers is in a completely different regime of income in our country compared to most Western European countries. These have the lowest income either untaxed or taxed at a significantly lower tax rate than in Slovenia. As a result, cross-border labour migrants in Slovenia, where taxpayers are also liable for income payments, should pay high-priced income. I've done a lot of work with these day-to-day migrants in the 2004-2008 mandate, and I've been to their meetings, and I've been to many coordinations at the Ministry of Finance. We somehow managed to understand their problem to this day, because at home in Slovenia, unfortunately, they did not find employment, so they had to and must cross the border. I am surprised that they are not on the balcony of the National Assembly today, I mean, of course, the Civil Initiative of the Apache, but, of course, at this time, Austria is still working. The complete abolition of the special relief for the income of cross-border labour migrants will, in the opinion of Nova Slovenije, result in the regulation of the permanent residence of most of these cross-border labour migrants in the countries where they earn income. As a result, applications for social security benefits will increase in Slovenia. The final objective of increasing public financial revenues by this measure will not be achieved. The right solution for regulating the taxation of cross-border labour migrants would be the conclusion of new bilateral contracts, in particular with the neighbouring countries of Italy and Austria, and in these treaties the tax situation of cross-border labour migrants would be fairly regulated. It is also important to take into account the fact that in most cases labour migration occurred for objective reasons without their fault. The debtors were at home, in Slovenia because of many bankruptcys they lost their jobs or were unemployed. Employment in which of the neighbouring countries has taken care of their own social security and the social security of the family. In New Slovenia, we believe that the way in which the tax status for cross-border labour migrants is resolved in this way, as envisaged in the proposed amendments and additions to the Income Act, is completely inadequate. Therefore, the amendment of the Income Act by the New Slovenia Group does not have support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you, too. Mr Alojz Potočnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u146	Your Honor! Half of the articles of the novel are aligned with the changes in the new sectoral system laws, in particular the Pension Insurance Act and the Labour Relations Act. To a large extent, it is not a matter of substantive change or harmonisation that has no visible financial implications for the budget and other public funds, but they can have an impact on the incomes of citizens and citizens who, from the individual's point of view, cannot be overlooked. For example, reducing the tax base of income from so-called other contractual relations, including contractual and copyright work under special conditions, of course. However, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia has concerns about the appropriateness of the solution to the cancellations or the amount of the untaxed part of the cancellation. The explanatory memorandum states that those discharges do not include those received by a worker who terminates his fixed-term employment contract if it is not a cancellation, but merely a termination of his employment contract. Here, however, it is not possible to overlook the fact that market reform has not fully recovered and that new jobs are probably not to be expected before the banking system is restored. And one more thing. 70% of young people have fixed-term contracts. The financial and substantive most important part of the novel are Articles 9 and 10, which regulate the abolition of automatic harmonisation of tax incentives or the coordination of net annual tax base amounts in the income scale. With reference to the 2013 Stability Programme, the possibility of setting harmonisation and the associated coefficient is left to the annual assessment of the economic sustainability of the country and the economic policy objectives, and this is practically left to the Budget Implementation Act. The concept of benefits in the Income Act is broad, we have general relief, we have personal reliefs, special personal reliefs, only special reliefs and so on. The impact of the facilitations in our system is extensive, they are social corrections, they promote individual sectoral policies, such as in the labour market, in social security, in family policy, not least in education, to those who go to students. Let me stress that modern tax policy, which is also co-formed by the European model of the social state, is an important tool in the hands of citizens, not just authorities. So tax policy is not a tool in the hands of citizens, with us, but sometimes only authorities. In the opinion of the Group, there is also a distinction between the importance of coordination by type of facilitation. We have some concerns about those measures that put pressure on dependent family members. The Novela also eliminates the relief granted to cross-border migrant workers. Here I am surprised that no one says that on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court in the event of a specific tax situation of cross-border workers being assessed. Nobody talked about it. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will, at first reading, support the proposal of the law with the concerns that we will keep under discussion in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Discoherence of the income scale and benefits with the cost of living will mean that the family with two children and spouses with an average salary will pay about EUR 300 and 24 euros more in income for the family or those two. This is a measure which means antisocial policy towards the family, towards Slovenian families, towards those with low incomes, and also those with only minimum wages will, of course, pay more income. It's government policy, Alenka Bratusek. This means that if someone wants to have a higher salary, then it will increase the cost in companies and then, in order to obtain such a net, it will also mean more gross and this will affect the non-competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. It will further increase non-competitiveness and this will mean that the economy will be in an even worse position. This amendment is not harmonised in the Economic and Social Council with partners. The government sent him to the National Assembly as uncoordinated. I think that the first thing the government should do should align this law with the social partners. Non-coordination or conditional coordination if this is done with another law, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, means increasing taxation in the long run. For inflation – as we have inflation and by the way we do not adjust the amounts in the income scale and the allowances for children – in this case it means increasing taxation of natural persons and an ever-increasing lack of availability of the money that people deserve or have earned, on the one hand. On the other hand, of course, it means, as the government has said, thirty million more revenue. But thirty million more incomes than the poorest; and this is actually a new tax. The harmonisation of the law on the implementation of the budget should it be coordinated if the government of Alenka Bratušek so wishes, if it so decides, is an even greater lack of transparency and even less certainty and stability of the Slovenian tax system. In fact, since income is an annual tax, these amounts may be coordinated, perhaps they will not be coordinated. If they do, the question is how far they will coordinate and so on and so forth. In short, intransparency, and also because of this, citizens and citizens will not even know how much they will pay the annual tax forward, especially because it depends on the government's decision on a case-by-case basis and the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget, even though there is some unwritten rule that taxes are regulated by the Tax Law, the budget by other laws. Another issue relating to this law is the taxation of labour migrants. This tax has to date been regulated by the Income Act. However, these people who work in Austria - some also in Italy - are there, in fact, saving their unemployment in Slovenia by hiring in border areas with Austria, mostly with Austria. The decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected, but this problem is resolved by signing one article of the double taxation agreement with Austria. In 2007 and 2008, negotiations with the Austrian financial authorities, with the Minister of Finance of Austria, have already begun, and these arrangements should have produced a result long ago, namely that the agreement on avoidance of double taxation would state that these workers, who have a source outside the Republic of Slovenia, are not subject to taxation. As I know, Austria has a similar solution for its workers and unilaterally, it is said that if Austria earns in Slovenia, it is a source of income outside Austria and then does not tax in Austria, but it is not regulated in the Austrian Income Law, it is not regulated in the Slovenian Income Act, it is regulated in the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation. I ask the Ministry of Finance where these negotiations or arrangements are with Austria, which were launched in 2007 and 2008. If they're interrupted, why are they interrupted? Since, after all, the Austrian budget would have been completely neutral and would have only been equal to the positions of the two countries in this agreement. If the negotiations on this article, which was opened at the time, are not terminated, then it is only a matter of time before the double taxation agreement is prescribed and when such a solution will actually apply to the Slovenians working in Austria. Secondly, if this government actually wants to change the agreement on avoidance of double taxation in the direction proposed and known to others. I think this solution is also known at the Ministry of Finance. Given that a new crisis tax is being introduced to make this law worse for migrant workers, we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you, too. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. The first one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. There's been a few changes in the order, so you're first.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Most of our thinking, thinking of New Slovenia, I have put in the position of the parliamentary group that I belong to, and we are truly outraged that we are witnessing virtually always new and new taxation, the burden of citizens, citizens, families and so on, of course also economic operators. I don't know where this is going, I don't know what the concept of this government is; a concept that should actually raise economic growth. Yesterday, the President and I somehow both agreed that we need about 60 000 new jobs for a normal situation in the country, I believe they cannot be done overnight, but the smallest businessman, the smallest craftsman, the entrepreneur has a business plan that is defined in time, with physical production and also with financial parameters. When I asked Mrs Alenko Bratušek about the numbers yesterday, President of the Government, we simply did not hear. No business plan of this government, which has a mandate – and no one will deny it – that has a mandate to run this country, so it seems: we will see what happens; if it is tricky, the fairies will be, if it is round, and they will be – I don't know what, shovels. I would also like to point out that unionists or trade unions and employers have expressed their indignation that they have not been invited to discuss this law. That's not good if this, say, did the previous coalition, would be a fire in the roof, as it's supposed to be. But I can't possibly accept a solution and I don't believe that this is the only one and one that is going to hurt the day-to-day migrants, especially from Pomurje, who go to work in Austria every day, but also those on the other side of Slovenia who go to work in Italy. My colleague, Sircelj, mentioned the interstate talks that took place at the end of the 2004-2008 term, the late Minister Dr Andrej Bajuk told me once, of course after 2008, that I should ask and that I would know which drawer they were in, unfortunately those ladies have not seen for a while now, he is probably retired, but let us leave. This government has mandates and this government should find the best solution; it should try, it should try to find the best solution. Indeed, in the area of prevention of double taxation within the meaning of inter-State agreements or whatever. The government has an army of experts in this area who could find a decent solution in due course. I would like to know if this time the Government will listen to our protest, especially to the members of the opposition, and also to the coalition parties, when it has drastically reduced funds under the so-called development law of the Pomur region in the 2014 budget rebalancing. I am very interested because we do not have any data, and I am interested in whether these funds will also be provided back in the 2015 rebalancing, even for 2014. Since, by the end of this law, i.e. until including 2015, the Government will not provide a certain amount of development resources in the law, then we will sue the Government or the state. And again. There is so much effort in Europe to improve the family environment, to improve demographic indicators, this is Europe's big problem and this is a big problem for Slovenia, but however I want to look for nice words, I simply cannot find them, and I repeat that this government is an unfriendly government to the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you, too. The next one has the word of Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, and the mag is prepared. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u152	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The law before us will have a lot of comments and also a supplement, and last but not least, the social partners you have warned are not satisfied with the way this law was formed. However, it must be borne in mind that the situation in which we are is also related to the promises made by the Slovenian government in the Stability Pact, which are also linked to limiting or temporarily limiting automatic coordination, and on the one hand to the transfers on the other hand to thinking about income. This way we will continue to discuss this, of course, I also agree that in some ways this is a covert crisis tax. The one thing that I would like to touch and is somewhat less understood for me is the solution that the applicants offer in Article 2 – the distinction between leave for workers who work for a certain or indefinite period of time. The fact is that the Labour Relations Act has taken a major step forward in equalising the status of workers working for a fixed or indefinite period of time. In this way, too, employment should be encouraged for a certain period of time. By means of this measure, which you have written down here, you are, in fact, derogating from this principle and, in fact, exempting from essentially non-taxable work, these entitlements for workers for a certain period of time. This is incomprehensible, I will say, it is in conflict with this law and, on the other hand, I would also like to draw your attention to the 2010 decision of the Constitutional Court, which addressed the unequal treatment of social security contributions and concluded that there are no reasonable and genuine reasons for distinguishing the burden of discharges from contributions in cases where workers are in substantially equal situations when the employment contract is cancelled. In fact, we can talk about contributions or income is about the same thing. That's how I think you're walking in dangerous terrain, I'd call it constitutional dispute. Therefore, the party of the Social Democrats will endeavour to make a radical change to this Article 2 and we will also enforce this through the amendments. Maybe just to touch it, I'm not happy with what's going on with the family burden, but please don't be so damn double-faced. With the ZUJF, you've reduced the standard of living of families by 10%, and you haven't cried at all. Let's be right! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak, prepare for Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u154	Your Honor, I don't think this law is suitable for further consideration. Why? Because I can see he's totally out of line with the coalition. Here we hear the statements of the coalition MPs in the sense that they are speaking to the government, as the opposition would have urged; czech, stand down, you are stepping down – we, you are "we", not "you". The opposition refers to the government with "you" and the coalition with "we"; that is said, you, the coalition withdraw from this. So, Your Honor, I think this thing is so uncoordinated, but at the same time too serious to deal with. In fact, the financial effects of this law have already been calculated in the draft budget for the next two years, and we see that you have not yet consolidated with regard to the basic elements, at least this has been the case with Positive Slovenia when we are talking about harmonising the facilities for the maintenance of family members and so on. Not only is this law directed against the family and the introduction of a crisis tax, it also interferes with the minimum wage. As a result of this law, the minimum wage will be lower than it would be, because the general tax relief will be the same, no higher, it will not be harmonised and the minimum wage will consequently be lower. That's what you're saying. By this law, you're lowering the net minimum wage. Of course, we are not talking about all other forms of pay. So you, on the one hand, are lowering the salary, the net salary of an individual who gets his life warm by raising all the other possible cost of life. So the real pay will be lower, and the nominal salary will be lower than it would be, and at the same time the life of this person who is going through a difficult time from month to month will be more expensive because you raised his VAT. Everyone who cares for their living needs has to pay for electricity, has to pay for utilities, has to pay for fuel and everything else, because it's VAT on all of this and you've encouraged him; not to talk about the wines and other extra costs he has. More! You're predicting a new property tax to this individual. And the Slovenian average person, who has some real estate and is at the same time a income weakness, will survive in future difficult times. I think that the coalition MPs, and even less the social partners, and here in Parliament you have not actually poured pure wine and presented in fact all the consequences on the different segments of the population that this law will have. This law has enormous consequences. Especially because it is cumulative and its effects are summed up over the years and after bits destroy life and in fact plunges the income position of an individual into an extremely unenviable position. Thus, I think it would be right for such a proposal to be withdrawn, to be said about it today, that the law is inappropriate for further consideration and that, of course, the Government, before going into similar temptations, requires it to present the comprehensive effects of this proposal in one year and of course in the sum for a period of five years. You probably don't plan to see the economy grow in one year or two. I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, if this law, despite the announced amendment of the SD, is going to be easily voted on because it is already in line with you, this is said that this freeze of reliefs and ladders is virtually not happening until economic growth is higher than 3%. This is said – me and you do not expect this economic growth in the next five years; please tell me what impact on the income position of the one with the minimum wage at the annual level, the one with the average salary at the annual level and the one with the two average salaries at the annual level will have in the five-year period after years. For this sum and this effect is accumulated, and after this period is immense. At the same time, of course, it would be good to present to people how after these years the average burden of households in this country will increase. And you will see what kind of scissors you create, how you reduce the income of those who work, and how you increase the burden of those who work. This is an extremely a social measure and others in a series of measures that this government has afforded. The first was a raise in VAT. The VAT raise has hit everyone, both those with only bread, electricity and flour or water, like those with pools by the houses on the Slovenian coast or even on any other coast. This measure is similar: it will hit everything. Your Honor, if you truly have feelings for the people you claim to represent, the Social Democrats, then it would be fair for you alone to become acquainted with the effects of this law for a five-year period, and you will see that you will oppose it. And there's one more thing. This law is a measure that will once again boost ambition after Sunday and after receiving transfers from the social treasury, it is not to say that the work will be even less paid. For the net income of an individual family will be lower, but social transfers will not. This is said to be a smaller difference between passive and active forms. Why would someone do that if you're destroying that difference? At the same time, the ambition for the grey economy will be even greater. This is said by the previous law, which prevents further reductions in corporate income taxes, and by this law, which additionally imposes tax burdens on all forms of work, you will further contribute to ambition through the grey economy and after employment in black. Because there's nothing to be paid for. There's cash on your hand – and that's it! Your Honor, seriously consider what you're doing. I think that in euphoria after these 30 million you have forgotten all these effects and I suggest you look for these 30 million euros and you will easily find them in the rationalisation of the public sector. And to ask for the health of the minister who negotiated and at the same time rejected further rationalisation in the public sector by the end of next year. He announced that there would be no unilateral interventions in the public sector and the mass of public sector salaries if they seemed – what they seemed recently. These 30 million, respected, could easily be found in the better management of state-owned enterprises and larger dividends that could be given to this economy to the budget and, of course, in the further rationalisation, the abolition of some unnecessary agencies, funds that were 14 days ago mushrooms in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you. The word was wanted by the secretary of mag. Mitya Mavko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. A brief explanation was made because it was a very explicit question of what the effects of this law would be, and especially because several non-compliance financial assessments had been made. If we are saying that the whole hypothetical expropriation of the law in the event of the abolition of the total indexation will be around 30 million at the annual level, it is difficult to talk about the enormous consequences of this law. The law is very specific, it is no secret, it raises the tax burden on income, but it is necessary to say how it raises it. For someone with a minimum wage of one, two or three children, the burden of this law does not increase for the euro. Not even for the euro for someone with a minimum wage. For someone who has an average salary in Slovenia, for example, as on average has two children, the annual burden is higher than €25. That means 2.13 euros a month. So much for the average extra load. That's what calculations are. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, the proposer, I would like to ask that we do not operate on enormous consequences and drastic black scenarios that are being painted here because calculations simply do not support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a procedural proposal that the Government prepare us a calculation that I have proposed and that the Secretary of State has not mentioned by word. That's what they say. Five years of effects. Because, Mr Secretary of State, you know well that the effects are also accumulated for those with minimum wages within a certain period of time and that today, for those with minimum wages, even though this is 12 euros a year, this can mean something to someone. But given that you have given him life for a few euros and that you have now reduced his salary minimally by a few euros, the result for him is twice the euro. For me these are enormous effects, for you they may be a small thing, which you have a solid salary and you will not suffer this much in the face of the basic needs of life. But once again, the distinguished Secretary of State, I propose that the Government, the honourable President of Parliament, prepare the effects of accumulating this non-alignment of scales and also tax reliefs through, say, a five-year period. So, this five-year period is a period in which, if God gives us happiness and if we have any government listening to the economy, we will see some mentions worth economic growth and then we will stop this failure to harmonise tax relief. In this period, however, the effect is increasing, with respect. I would therefore ask you for this information and in writing for us to be able to calculate it. I do not intend to propose the suspension of the sitting at this time, but until the next hearing, I am sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u159	Mr. Mitja Mavko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you very much. There is absolutely no intention of the government to hide anything about this law. We propose that we also discuss these, all the consequences in an open manner and are prepared to provide such calculations. It is true, however, that calculations are always based on assumptions and many of these assumptions can be very hypothetical, if you want, for the next five-year period. We already have a lot of difficulty forecasting economic growth for the next quarter, but we will work with our colleagues at the Ministry and we will also prepare such calculations to deal with the law in the coming stages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you. The following is Mr Franz Jurša, who is not currently in the Chamber. I give the word "magic." Ivan Vogrin. But get ready, Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Winston Churchill did an interesting experiment. He stepped into the bucket and tried to lift himself by the handle. You think he's going? It's not working. On this basis, his famous saying: "By raising taxes to improve the welfare of citizens is the same as if you step into a bucket and try to raise yourself by hand." It can't be! This way of raising taxes is wrong. I'll tell you why I think, but maybe I'm wrong, and I'll let that happen. My friend Dejan Židan, who we were with when he was a Member, had a little more time running around Roznik, warned me about Paul Krügman’s book. I read it with interest, underlined it, wrote it, and so on. Look what Krügman wrote! "We don't have to suffer so much hardship and destroy so many lives." And he's talking about a completely different path – Krügman. The book is worth reading. I'm grateful to my fellow Jew. And then I took Axel Kaiser's book to support myself, and I didn't want to talk about it that day. The path to collapse with subtitles How governments and central banks have destroyed the world and why the worst is yet to come. Look, I'll read it to you, I think it says everything, one thought: "Governments can't create prosperity. It is high time to remove the last shades of secrets that surround this fact, they can only create an atmosphere that promotes or stifles entrepreneurship and prosperity with it." This is the basis of Parliament's work. Parliament, the government must create a legislative framework so that the economy can act so that people can live so that people can spend. I am very interested because about 20,000 signatures have been collected for Members to go to minimum wages, or we will accept that. Try to survive with seven hundred Euros! Let us try — perhaps we will understand. Look, the way you keep increasing taxes is definitely unfair. I'm surprised, I'm surprised, I've read a lot of books for the needs of tax laws that somehow regulate the field of taxation because I want to know what's going on and how things have been resolved in other countries. On this basis, I sent a different proposal for taxation to all Members of Parliament in June 2013 and listed it on page six, page seven very briefly. I'm not gonna read it because my five minutes are running out. But I'm going to say something else about this thinking. Sometimes I feel like I'm actually in Volina, in a restaurant where everyone knows, everyone has solutions for everything, and in fact no one serves with any calculations, simulations, predictions. [[...]] Economists, serious people don't talk, but they present evidence, numbers. When the Secretary of State is mag. Mitja Mavko spoke here about how this would not affect — there is no evidence. Twenty years ago, they said that we could do better — where did we go? You know why? We're not serious. We're talking, we're talking without doing any analysis. The MPs should be served by the government, the ministry, with simulations. Then I as a Member – and convince me that I am wrong. It's not like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you. Mrs Romana Tomc has the floor, and Mrs Iva Dimic is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, once again a very good-bye! This bill is another piece of evidence that the Government is speaking one way and working another. In recent days, we have personally heard the President of the Government argue several times that he will not go to the minimum wage. Then she got better again and said there would be no one-sided intervention in minimum wage. I do not recall any information that the social partners would attach to this law or adopt it with all the solutions that are proposed here – therefore, the law is a unilateral intervention in the wages of all the debtors. When we discussed the financial effects earlier, we all forgot a little bit about the government material, which is prepared and also contains these financial effects. The Secretary of State is likely to correct this, but it clearly says here in the financial impact assessment that "it will have the abolition of the indexation at the annual level of effects of EUR 30 million, depending on the income position of the individual debtor". Then here we also have an impact assessment in the social field, and here it is very well written, not as Secretary of State Mavko said earlier that it will not affect the minimum wage, writes "on the assumption that the debtor applies only general relief, he will have a higher minimum wage on income of less than EUR 20". So 20 euros is the effect on the minimum wage. His income will increase by 20 euros or, in other words, his salary will fall by 20 euros. Now tell me, is this a unilateral intervention in minimum wage or not? Very obvious! And given that at this point in Slovenia there are just over 40,000 people who receive a minimum wage, and let's multiply this by 20 euros, you'll get about 800 thousand euros of financial effects there. This is what happens now with these financial effects. They'll probably have to be postponed for the next few years. I hope that the government will be able to make such projections, even though I believe they are very difficult, but that is exactly what happens next year. However, I would now like to ask an additional question to the financial effects, and I say that the Secretary of State has previously kindly reminded me that income from income is shared between the country and the municipality. The municipality collects 54% of income from income. In view of the fact that you have written in government paper that the financial impact on the budget and other public funds is EUR 30 million under this heading, I ask you, of course, just to clarify. Is this the financial impact of the total revenue collection and only half of which will be received by the State into the budget? Is this a financial impact in its entirety or so: is this actually the income of the budget, 30 million, or is that the total revenue that the state and the municipalities will receive? For if this is just the revenue of the budget, then essentially taxpayers under this heading will be charged once more, it is said that the total effect will be 60 million, not 30. However, if this is not the case, if this is the whole proceeds or from the non-alignment of the income scale, then the state budget will only take out half of this, that is to say EUR 15 million. I want to know how you have this calculated into the future budget that we had, so to speak, the privilege of seeing — the basic numbers — only from the newspapers, but it would be very correct for Members to get the budget on the table even sooner than to read from the newspapers; but if I have read correctly, in the newspaper of Finance they are evaluating or comparing figures from this year and next year and there is a difference in income for some 3 million. How are those numbers coming along now? In this context, I do not like that the government deceives that the government is hiding and that the government is lying to people. Drink pure wine, bring together all the effects of any tax increases that have already been, which will be, and also consider how the family budget has been affected by the increased price for urban transport for children driving to school, and then we will see how the social partners from the coalition, which declares themselves social, will accept your data. In the preceding point, we have considered an increase in the burden of the economy; at this point, we are considering an increase in the burden of the population, and on each occasion you claim that it is a small effect that will not have a significant impact on the economy or on the people. Let us add them together once, let us draw the line below everything, and let us sum up what these effects will now be! We also understand from the newspapers that in the next year there will be tax revenues, I think there will be more €500 million. 500 million euros! I don't know if these numbers are real or not, we're waiting to get the official documents on the table. But 500 million euros at the end of the day is not enough. I think it's huge. I don't know how people, especially those with the lowest incomes, are really going to take it. In 2008, when economic growth was the highest when companies prospered when there were not enough unemployed people to say 60,000 less unemployed than today, we heard about unsustainable conditions and about poverty knocking on doors. What do you say to that today? Has the situation improved today? Today we do have 116 thousand unemployed, which is less than we had in early January. With this information, the President of the Government boasts and compares pears and apples! And that's rewinding people. It compares the same data, compares the month to the month, compares the year to year. Last August there were 106 thousand unemployed, 116 thousand this year. That is to say, if we are honest, unemployment has increased substantially. This is all I expect, colleagues and colleagues, and the Government, of course, to bring to the National Assembly the correct information, the correct correction and to show the whole picture that when you say one part of the sentence, you say another part of the sentence. People will probably take it differently, people are afraid today, they don't know what's coming to them tomorrow; today we have one action, tomorrow we have each other, the next tomorrow. You're closing the budget, I guess it's just a matter of time, days, hours when these numbers are going to fall apart on one side and the other, but we didn't get the slightest answer yesterday to what kind of real estate tax we can expect, who's going to pay, how much it's going to pay, how it's going to affect the social situation of people. I think that the National Assembly is justified and not only justified, but there is more to getting the correct data, getting a clear picture and then making it easier to make decisions on this basis. If we have all this, then I'm sure your laws won't fly as smoothly through the vote as they fly now. Or they'll fly by having their colleagues on the other side very down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you. Does the Secretary of State want to answer any questions? Mrs. Matthew Vranitzer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, as regards specific issues relating to the calculation of the financial impact. If you have read the proposal in detail, the draft law provides an example of a person receiving a minimum wage and applying only general relief to income. However, its tax situation is, of course, quite different from that of the typical minimum wage debtor, which, in addition to general relief, also provides relief for two dependent family members. As I am aware, a colleague who spoke about the financial implications of the proposed law for the person receiving the minimum wage used this data. If we are talking about a person who receives a minimum wage and who has only a basic personal allowance, only a basic personal allowance applies, then they shall hold the data specified in the written material. The second part of the issue relating to financial effects is in fact the revenue of the State budget and thus covers that part of the revenue which ultimately belongs to the State budget or to the municipal budget. Municipal income is a decommissioned resource, recorded in full in the State budget and then, in essence, through a decommissioned resource separately. So this is a total estimate of €30 million and €33 million of financial impact, not a double number. As regards the 2014 budget, given that the Public Finance Act provides that the Government should submit a draft state budget or a proposal for an updated state budget to the National Assembly by 1 October, Members will be informed of all official information, figures, explanations, accompanying documents. But I don't think it's appropriate to comment on the newspaper articles right now and to tell you the truth, I haven't even had time to read them today and can't even comment on them from this point of view. I am informed that another question has been raised to the Ministry of Finance, to which we have not yet given an answer, regarding negotiations with Austria on the possible amendment of the Convention in connection with tax relief for cross-border workers. These negotiations were conducted intensively during 2008 and in the first half of 2009, we were trying to reach an agreement to amend Article 15. For the Austrian side, the matter was not acceptable, we tried to reach agreement on the amendment of Article 24 of the Convention and again we failed to reach an agreement. In the first half of 2009, the then government decided that the procedure for amending the Convention with Austria would not continue, so that in the coming months or years we did not seek a solution to the problem of cross-border migrant workers in amending the Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you, too. You have a replica, Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for this information, the Secretary of State. I hope we're all getting along just fine. She actually confirmed my allegations. Someone who receives a minimum wage and applies only a general benefit will have a lower salary of 20 euros. Second thing. Here you have also explained to me that the effect on the state budget on the non-coordination of the income scale is not 30 million, but half of it, because half of it will belong to the municipalities, half will also belong to the Municipality of Ljubljana and other municipalities. Only half of this will be the amount that will be richer, if we can say so in the notes, the budget. Because at every step we are looking for the euro, per euro, per euro, you will burden our citizens and citizens with 30 million new taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you. Mrs Matey Vraničir wants the word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Just so we're really accurate. In the case of a person receiving a minimum wage and applying only a general personal allowance, an increase of EUR 20 represents an increase at the annual level, and at the monthly level this means an increased or undeclared burden, so we should say in essence – an undeclared burden of 1.65 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you. The following is Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Borut Ambrožič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all colleagues and representatives of the government! I will continue on my own where my colleague Horvath ended up, and that is with family politics. The Secretary of State, Mr Mavko, said that he would not be known in the family budget. We also heard this when a family or children’s allowance was cut off is said to be older than 18 years of age, and when scholarships were suspended for minors under 18 years of age. Even then, it was said that it would equalize itself so that it would not interfere with the family itself. I would mention some other laws that are being prepared, but I don't know if anyone knows who they're going to tax or who's going to put up with it. These are: cadastral income, real estate tax, not to mention raising value added tax, encouraging vineyards, introducing a new toll grade, and now finally we have an income law. Yes, all these measures will affect families, all families. The bigger ones, the bigger ones, the bigger ones. The freezing and non-coordination of wages and social transfers will be an ever-increasing burden, and this has been said many times today. It's been exposed a couple of times to know each other's families. It is forgotten that these families, especially large ones, are now making the most of their contributions to the municipal treasury and state treasury: municipal contributions, water, garbage, and family accounts. I believe there's a difference between someone who has a 9-, 12-, and someone who has a 2-, 3-, 4-member family. Not to mention value added tax. The consumption in such families is increasing. How much do these families contribute to the state treasury? I wonder if anyone ever took it in front of their eyes and thought about it. And now this freezing of reliefs and income scales, which will result in lower net incomes and consequently lower standards! In Novi Slovenija we are firm against new taxes and even more against hidden taxes. We are aware that only nativity and good family policy ensure the long-term sustainability of pension, health and state treasury. Obviously, that is not how this government thinks and thinks completely differently, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr Borut Ambrožič has the following word. I don't think he's in the hall right now. The next one is Mr. Mirko Brulc. I don't see him in the hall right now. Mr. Janez Fishich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, distinguished President of the National Assembly! Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, I welcome you! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act – it is said that the topic is very difficult. Slovenian work is overloaded with taxes and contributions, so any interference with this area makes the situation worse. Don't put in a silent crisis tax either! We repeat in the Slovenian People's Party, I don't know how many times: public financial consolidation should be done as you have committed yourself to the stability programme. It is said that two-thirds of expenditure management, i.e. more rational government spending, and only one-third on the side of greater burdens to achieve higher revenues. The need to be aware that much can be done with the revenue side already by consistently collecting what belongs to the country and that more is done in the area of the grey economy, administrative burdens, tax collection, European resource collection and could still be listed. Therefore, higher revenue in the budget is also possible without general tax burden increases. We can be sure that the decision to make a special relief is going to encourage further concealment and avoidance of the declaration of income earned abroad, over which Durs does not already have good control. It is clear that, due to differences in tax rates and facilitations, Slovenian workers abroad are completely uncompetitive, at least as long as they remain registered as a tax resident in Slovenia, and therefore the principle of global income taxation is also inappropriate and needs to be examined for better solutions. Unemployment will increase in some parts of Slovenia as a result. Slovenians and Slovenians, who have sought work in neighbouring countries mainly because it is simply not at home and have thus solved their existing problem, and thus unloaded the Slovenian social treasury, have been punished in some way by such a government measure because they live in a tax-free country and because they serve their money elsewhere and spend it in Slovenia. Only abolishing the relief results in more negative economic and social consequences than the increased financial inflows from this heading to the state budget. In conclusion, in the Slovenian People's Party we understand that efforts to balance public finances will also need to raise a tax, but most efforts will need to be directed towards how to manage this country more rationally. This is the only way we will be able to help the economy and not overburden it because of the desire to fill the budget. Unfortunately, the new Income Act is not the only increase in taxation, so we do not favor it in the Slovenian People's Party. Secondly, budgets are charged at the expense of all employees in this country through income and thus the destruction of everything we did in this area last year. Families and individuals with children are also being punished in some way, as this measure also reduces child relief. If it were a lonely measure in the area of higher tax burden, we could discuss further consideration of this legal novel. Thus, in connection with the irresponsible attitude towards migrant workers and the ignorance of social partners, this law has no support in the Slovenian People's Party. The former government, with the participation of the Slovenian People's Party, has killed with its actions and measures, which have also been well assessed by the European Community. But this government is waiting; waiting for a threesome, they would say basketball enthusiasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you. The next one has the word Dr. Ljubica Jelusic. And get ready, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go, Mrs. Jelusich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, nice greeting once again to colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Government or representatives of the Government, the Ministry of Finance! When we talk about new taxes or the reduction of income benefits, we are aware that this actually affects each of us individually, of course, we are resisting this. No one is happy when new taxes are introduced, but we need to ask ourselves why the state needs new taxes and why we need this in the state budget, what we get in return. If we are not prepared to reduce the standards and standards of benefits we have from the public sector and if the economy is not capable of these our high standards needs with its contributions to the budget, then resources for the budget should be sought elsewhere. Some say that people are opposed to new taxes, and some public opinion estimates say that this is not entirely true. If people are properly presented with the opportunities they have, such as a reduction in social transfers or a crisis tax, support for the crisis tax was significantly higher than support for reducing social transfers. So people need to know the whole picture so that even sometimes they understandably accept a new tax. With regard to the Income Act under consideration, or the amendment and supplementation of the Income Act, I personally think it is suitable for further consideration. I am aware, however, that not all the questions that could already be raised are open, even with this amendment to the Income Act. With regard to the problem of specific personal allowances relating to cross-border labour migrants, I must say that there is a great deal of question as to how these people, in some ways, should be reimbursed in some way the substantial higher costs they have in carrying out their work abroad. It should also be known that cross-border migrant workers in Austria are in a significantly different position compared to those who work in Italy, because they are official migrants in Austria. This is known by both the state of Austria and the state of Slovenia. Although many migrants in Italy, the country of Slovenia knows, but informally, because they are employed in Italy on the black. Of them neither Italy nor Slovenia have much, except of course that the money they earn in Italy may be transferred to Slovenia and spent in Slovenia. And that's less because they buy the things they need in Italy. It is said that those who are employed in Austria are in some special position. This is precisely why, for those in Austria, it seems unnecessary to threaten people in the future to hide more or not to predict the income they receive in cross-border employment, as these are officially employed persons, who are also known by the state of Austria and Austria to pay already one part of their income. In particular, I am aware that it is not possible to hide data in relation to Austria because it is a country which, as far as the pursuit of work is concerned, is quite regulated and cross-border or inter-state data exchange is possible. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Secretary of State has also raised. A crower, namely that negotiations were held with the Republic of Austria in 2007, 2008 and early 2009 to avoid double taxation and the possibility that our Slovenian cross-border labour migrants should be granted some relief in these tax relations. When it turned out that these negotiations did not lead to any objective, the Ministry of Finance and the government of Borut Pahor decided to introduce this so-called fifth personal relief in Article 113 of the Income Act. In this way, the problem raised by cross-border labour migrants has been temporarily resolved in some way. It has now proved, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, that this partial solution, a temporary solution, was inappropriate and will have to continue to seek solutions for the situation of these people, so that it seems appropriate to give and support those who have opened up this problem in a renewed effort to resume these negotiations, even though it is obvious that they are difficult and do not necessarily lead to any greater success. I would warn – when we talk about the Income Act and because I have already said that we should perhaps open another question with it – to the issue of general relief. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce warn us that to avoid the grey economy, it would be necessary to cut into the Income Act in a way that recognises general relief for people. Their view is that people, citizens, residents of this country should obtain the right to general relief by collecting invoices for services provided in our country. This would change the culture of behaviour of citizens who agree that in the context of the grey economy, accounts are paid without certificates and would encourage more or more support for those who issue accounts, so they would influence the grey economy, while, of course, changing the way in which we citizens, as I said, encourage the grey economy ourselves, are always talking about how to prosecute it. In short, if I finish. I support this law, but I am aware that a supplement will be needed, and I am also aware that no one will gladly accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you, too. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor to prepare Mr Jerko Čehovin. He's quitting. That'll be the next Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. New taxes or, in this case, non-taxation, but things are going on at the other end, new burdens of people are unacceptable to us, and so we also oppose the law or appeal to the Government to reconsider whether this law goes forward with such a law as it is, or perhaps to change something. It is another law that is inconsistent with the social partners, and the unions oppose it. We also met with them in our Group of Members. Remember last year's debate on non-compliance, when every law had to be harmonised by Janša's government, and we talked so long that even with the law of ZUJF, for example, which has affected a lot of people, is still less than this, so much less for the majority than this law on income, and we have made every effort to comply with the social partners. Mrs Bratušek boasted yesterday that there will be no new crisis law. You don't have to bring him to the table of the Income Act, because like I said, we do the same thing on the other hand. So, the headlines in the media already in January will pay you more, and if I read, "In line with the new law of relief and the income scale for 2014, which will be published at the end of this year, they will no longer be in line with inflation and will be the same as this year. This means that we will already pay more in the salary that we will receive in January and receive less net payments." My colleagues have already said that 330 euros will be higher income, an annual income for those who receive up to 3,000 euros in gross wages and will impose general relief. Such persons or groups account for as much as 95% of the taxpayers. However, the amounts will be even higher for all those who will also enforce relief for dependent family members, that is, children. This means that the government again burdens and attacks families, attacks those who are our future or prospective taxpayers, and, of course, those who live with some average or not very high incomes. More specifically, this non-compliance for the family or for the average-paying spouse will amount to a higher income of EUR 324 for 2014. As I said, this will also have an impact on this year's deposit that people have been paying over the year, which means that the accounts for the family budgets will probably be quite substantial. In addition, the Government – the law is practically the first day we are considering or having a first reading, already taking into account revenue in the budget. The budget now circulates, although we as the opposition do not yet have it, but in the media we can already read something, and in the budget there are already revenues, 30 million from this law, including 216 million from the Real Estate Tax Act, which is nowhere to be seen, we are not yet considering it, but in this way selling the story of the harmonised budget is, of course, yes. So, it's not another tax, but it's a covert tax, and we're assessing which in our parliamentary group and also the party we've always led a positive family policy, that marriage is bad and we don't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Jože Tanko, then Jasmine Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Those of us who are a little longer in the National Assembly are also reminded of the consideration of certain laws, including income laws, from periods before that. I recall the period 2004–208, when we adopted laws, such a change in income, where we reduced tax rates, as well as the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, where we essentially reduced 'companies income'. And when we were lowering tax rates, in that resistance to economic growth, wages were only increasing because the wage burdens were falling. At that time, one of the former colleagues, who is also now a colleague in the Parliamentary benches of Positive Slovenia, collected the positions of those who are socially at risk and carried them to the then Prime Minister, Mr Janša. It is true that when we were unloading wages when we were burdened with income, when the net effects of this increased, they brought to the Prime Minister the positions of those who are "poor". Today, Members of this same parliamentary group come with laws that add to the burden on the economy, which add to the burden on agriculture, which adds to the burden on all groups, even the most socially threatened, and are not entirely loud if I am not wrong about very few of those who were very loud at the time, he has spoken at all today. If it is, it is extremely mild and tolerant of the government. I consider this to be the perfect diversion, the politics of the worst kind. What is being adopted today is also actually some kind of ZUJF for those at risk. You have previously raised many words against the Public Finance Balance Act, which has reached only some groups that are above some of the limits of some average. Today, this law interferes in everything and there is no protest within coalition parties, no protest by the Ombudsman, no petitions and no special protests, which in fact shows that it may even be a big trade. I must say that, according to my assessment, not all the options that are possible are exhausted to ensure the stability of the state budget and to reduce the budget deficit or to ensure that it is within the limits. We have already witnessed the incredible tolerance of coalition parties to bankers this week, when they also missed those with deposits of over 100,000 euros through the fingers that gave the state guarantee that these savers, who are super-standardly rich, will be paid off. In this case, however, we have before us incredible arrogance or violence against those who are hardest to help those who are suffering are not loud. I think that the approach taken by the Government, in fact, only indicates that you are decomposing the country into two groups; that is to say, in a group of privileged people for whom, through the State's guarantee, we are covering their superstandard needs, and others, it is said that you are taking them, so that you are covering the origin in a long and continuous way. Interestingly, despite all these great debates about social justice, equality, sustainability and so forth, you are deadly cold in your defense of solutions far from it. Far from it! I am surprised to see that in laws that cause severe social injustices, you are so tolerant of supporting these solutions. And on the other hand, I am also surprised by the Social Democrats that it is very easy to press the keys when it is necessary to grant some privilege to bankers, as well as to the President of the Republic, probably one and the other, both exes. Why does the government not first exhaust all the possibilities available by regulating these superstandard supplements – not allowances, but allowances – which some also receive under the law? Why is it impossible to change these laws? What is superstandard, what is a privileged supplement is not a human right, does not belong to the category of guaranteed rights and does not propose such solutions. If we were to propose first to exhaust all these options that are available to ensure the stability of the country, then fine, this law is also acceptable as it is, but because you avoid all those solutions in superstandard matters, then certainly such solutions cannot be supported because not all those options are exhausted. It is probably not justified that, say, the President of the Republic – one or the other, Kučan or Türk – has an allowance of approximately EUR 1,000 600 a month, that is to say, in the amount of the pension because he was once president. We don't give anyone who's on the social side any forgiveness, no forgiveness. The state budget, as I said before, will provide around €400 million net to cover the bank hole in two dissident banks. This is significantly more than you have to and you will have to save or take away citizens in order to have a sustainable budget deficit. Is it necessary to burden social groups, burden students and lift them by 20, 25% to high school, to college? Is it necessary for this category of people who do not even have their own income to raise education costs, material costs, direct costs? Here, in privileged groups, no one blinks with their eyes. You're hiding behind the fact that this is necessary because I don't know what the reasons is, the stability of the banking system. The banking system has not been stable for many years because it has been managed in this way because stories have been covered in this way: with power, lobbying and similar things. It is difficult for me to listen when I listened to this story about social justice after 2000 just because there was another government that actually carried out this social justice. Both the first Janševa and the second Yanšev government ensured the implementation of the second or third Article of the Constitution as regards social justice and so on. All these left-wing governments do not guarantee this, but they are doing the exact opposite. They refer to the constitutional provision and adopt laws which are totally contrary to that provision. We should make an inventory sometime. It would be good for us, too, for the government of Alenka Bratušek, and I am also giving this initiative, to draw up a table of all measures and impacts on the family budgets and on the budgets of companies, on the economic budgets since April or March when it took over, and so far in these few months. Add up a little bit on how many of these indirect and also direct negative effects are on budgets. Take over all the burdens you have proposed and adopted through the laws, through the regulations and so forth, and you will see what numbers we can discuss. Do a little math. The measures that are still being followed. Everything you let the bankers and look through your fingers will be paid again by the citizens through the real estate tax. Not one thing that has been denied or stated that it will not happen, whether by the Prime Minister or by anyone else, has it literally been realized in the next few steps as it has been predicted through the towers, although it has already been denied. In short, for the reasons I have said, I do not support this law; for I am sure that this law should be rejected and imposed on the Government to come up with solutions that will first clear up with all the privileges, with all the superstandard groups. Once we've done this, once we've levelled this scheme, then there are solutions that can affect all citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jasmina Opec, behind her, Mr. Marko Pavlisic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I have already spoken about the amendment of the law in the position of the Group of Members, so in my debate I will focus mainly on the problem of migrant workers and try to present it a little bit in the broader context. After many bankruptcys in Pomurje, especially after the bankruptcy of Mura, and the loss of jobs in Pomurje, we found ourselves in a difficult social situation. Not to mention a major social disaster today, the main thanks are given to the neighbouring Austria and to the workers who have worked there. However, with us in Pomour, the employment trend in Austria is not declining; on the contrary! More and more people of all generations and all professions go to work in Austria. The situation has come so far that various NGOs no longer organise workshops on how to set up their own company, but are increasingly organizing different workshops on how to find employment in Austria. We have very well visited workshops Employment me, neighbor, in early October we will also have an interstate conference on employment in Austria. As this country is unable to launch its domestic economy, it is regrettable that today Prekmurje and Pomurje are largely existentially linked to neighbouring Austria. The solution, as proposed in this law, will only cause three; these workers can alienate, not encourage, but actually do so today. They will be able to move out of the country and not only pay taxes elsewhere, but also start spending elsewhere, or exempt from the service because of non-competitiveness and apply for employment. I believe that neither of us wants any of these three scenarios, so once again I call on the Ministry: not to punish those who have gone across the border and found employment there and, if you like, to unload the domestic social register. Find or find another, more appropriate solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlišič, Mr. Frangež is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. In the last few hours, we've been talking mainly about taxes. It's a tough topic, so I'm going to go to another area now, and I'm going to talk about men and women. In Article 4, we are equating the life expectancy of men and women in the field of life insurance. This is a requirement of the European Directive to ensure equal opportunities for men and women. Notwithstanding the fact that I fully support such activities with regard to equal opportunities, I must mark this change as a kick in the dark. Ensuring equal opportunities between men and women is something else, while equality between men and women is something else. Or should I say otherwise, a good marriage like that won't give me the chance to have a baby. And also, the lifespan of men and women will not be equal if we write it down in marriage. Finally, the law does not address cases where the expected life expectancy of a man or woman is already negative in relation to the expected birth. At birth, a man can expect sixty-seven and a half years, and women can expect almost thirty-three years. However, those who experience this age can expect to live for another decade. As a result of this law, I do not ask questions, but I propose that in the future it differs between the provision of equal opportunities for men and women and between the completely natural differences between men and women and that this be taken into account in an appropriate professional manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr Pavlišič, for this expansion. Here you go, Mr. Franguez, after him mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u186	Respected and respected! The Income Act certainly brings some controversial solutions. As has already been pointed out in the position of our Group of Members, we are not entirely satisfied with either of the three. First of all, migrants must be given special consideration, given their position. The fact is that today thousands and thousands of our citizens are faced with the need to look beyond our borders for opportunities for their everyday existence, because in this country there are no adequate opportunities for them to take care of their social situation, to work, to gain work experience and not least for proper pay. And here's the key problem with this story. Thousands of people, including from places where I come from alone, drive daily to Graz or longer to Austria to earn their wages. In 2009, after the so-called Civil Initiative of Apache had fought for this for several years, this country recognised a special tax relief so that the burden of double taxation would be duly taken into account in our tax legislation. These are the residents of this country, and they work in Austria and the Constitutional Court, by their decision of the Constitutional Court, which must be respected, found that the law in this part is discriminatory. Thus, there is in fact no other solution before us than to take the decision of the Constitutional Court into account in such or otherwise. Personally, however, I believe that there is still some room within this room of manoeuvre for us to find smart solutions that will not significantly change and worsen the situation of migrant workers overnight. As regards the coordination of the income scale and tax reliefs, in any case, we expect that a solution will be sought in the course of this law's consideration in the National Assembly, which will mean that this solution is temporary. That it is therefore one in a series of anti-crisis measures that pursues the objectives of public financial consolidation. The non-coordination of income scales and tax incentives would, in the long term, constitute a deterioration of the income situation of our citizens. If we do this in one year, in two years, because we agree that public finances need to be saved, it is permissible. However, if we adopted the thesis on non-coordination for a longer period of time, we would, in fact, decide today that every further year we will burden citizens more than today under applicable income legislation. I don't think we should make that decision. That is why we are considering the possibility that the deadline for this measure should be tied to, say, the economic growth achieved, in short, the time when the threat of fiscal and economic instability will be over. In any event, I do not think it makes sense that something that exists today as an indisputable statistical category, inflation has gone up and that income scales and tax reliefs have been adjusted accordingly to understand this as something that our citizens and we, on their behalf, are constantly canceling, or to correct it with annual intensive coordination with the social partners and then adopt it in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. I find this solution pointless, I think it is good to have automatic stabilisers in the system, and as we can praise the role of automatic stabilisers when correcting the positive direction in which public finances are spent, I believe that, in the same logic, the role of these stabilisers must be recognised even when they concern the indisputable situation of our people and their reimbursements from the cash register or payments and possible repayments. As regards the third point brought by this law, we have pointed out in our position that, in the course of the income treatment, it is also necessary to equalise the treatment of benefits resulting from the fixed-term employment contract and fixed-term employment contracts. If, by reforming the labour market, with the exceptional progress made in the Labour Relations Act, we have achieved this progress in equal treatment of employment for an indefinite period of time and employment for a certain period, then it is only reasonable and only right that such logic and such arrangements are respected by the remaining sectoral legislation. Tax policy, of course, comes first. I believe that very interesting political discussions can be opened. This is what the gabarits offered to the Social Democrats in this debate are, and I am sure that the wise Government, if it wants to be wise, will listen to the warnings coming from these benches. This is not the last part of the general consideration of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. It's mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are talking about amending the Income Act and we are talking again about how much less income people will get, how much less real income, and given that this is a unilateral intervention in minimum wages, those who have minimum wages and benefit exclusively from total relief will receive about 20 euros a year, which means, of course, that the minimum wage will be reduced. This is certainly one of the measures that reduces the real income of people. Also in June or July, when the value added tax rose by 2%, the information was that people would also pay about 2 euros more, which means that they would pay more on the one hand to raise the tax, on the other hand they would have less real income. 44 thousand people receive minimum wages and 44 thousand people will have less real income. It is perfectly logical that this law and this legislation are inconsistent with the social partners. Of course, the fact that it is not coordinated with the social partners says much; it says that this government comes with laws affecting the income side of individuals and individuals actually lowers their standard, but the system does not harmonise with the social partners. This means, of course, that this proposal is that the scale and the incentives are not aligned with inflation or that coordination is not automatic with the cost of living. This, of course, means that it is probably a very autocraticly run government that, regardless of what people think and say, comes with its solutions. It is always necessary to say what people get, out of these 30 million. What would be better for people because they would be more taxed with 30 million? Will they get better services from the state? And when we talk about 30 million, on the other hand, we have to say that it's easy, it's easy to pay 400 million for the bankruptcy of two companies, two banks, which we talked about on Friday. In short, money will be raised from people with minimum average wages to finance bankruptcy banks. That's what people have a right to know. But they have no right to know why two banks went bankrupt and who is the one who actually sent them into bankruptcy with his policies. That's how this ugly thing is. This ugly thing about this law is that, in fact, if the scale is not aligned and the relief is not coordinated, in fact, this income of individuals is being taxed gradually, but more and more, and in fact people would actually pay huge sums of tax and could actually halve their income. When we talk about migrant workers, particularly in Austria, I would certainly like to mention that it is true that the two-time solution that was adopted in 2009 has been mentioned, but it is necessary to know that the first solution for migrants was adopted in 2007 and then it was improved and this solution was redefined, but the first solution was in 2007 and even then was a greater relief for migrant workers. The only solution here is to add Austria to the double taxation agreement. As I know, the Austrians actually have such an order for their workers, and I do not understand why this could not be bilateral, because they are already subject to such a provision. I think there has been a lot of confusion here, and I don't think there are any real grounds why the Republic of Austria would not have taken such solutions. However, there must also be a desire on our part to settle this matter. She needs to be cleaned up. Given that there are also many comments from the coalition, given that this law is not in line with the social partners, given that it is also a solution, to be valid only for a while or to be linked to the growth of gross social product or to something similar, I fear that this will be such a period, so long, that poverty will flood this country, especially if that government accepts such proposals and sends them to the National Assembly. Because of the lack of coherence in the coalition on this law, because it is not in line with the social partners, I propose that you withdraw this law from the procedure, that the Government prepare the analyses that we have discussed today, and that it simply finds 30 million. We are looking for 30 million and 30 million to be found elsewhere; they can reduce privileges and 30 million can be found, public procurement can be improved and 30 million can be found, material costs can be reduced and material costs can be found. In fact, these 30 million can also be obtained by improving the management, management and management of state-owned enterprises. It's easy to get them. Here, on the one hand, this government talks about its actions, on the other hand, it works completely different matters and reaches out to all salaries in the country, in all incomes in the country, it additionally taxes all taxpayers and additionally taxes those who have the least or barely have a livelihood. Therefore, once again, the proposal: please consider and withdraw this law from the next procedure and find 30 million. We'll give you advice on where to find them. I've already told you some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the government's representative? Secretary of State Mrs. Vraničar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. A few final comments from my side on the individual claims that were exposed. When we talk about today's most widely considered solution proposed by the bill, this is the abolition of automatic indexation: it is the abolition of automation. It's not about abolishing the indexation as such. This can be decided every year against, not necessarily and only because of inflation, but it will also be possible to take into account other reasons why it would be appropriate to align both the scale and the facilitations with a certain coefficient. Today, with an unaltered nominal gross salary, the solution, as contained in the bill, means that everyone will receive an unaltered nominal net salary if his circumstances have not changed in any way — other circumstances. So we're not talking about extra burden, but we're talking about that the burden on an individual debtor on an unaltered salary will not go down. In the case of a debtor with a minimum wage that applies only a general benefit, for 1.65 euros per month, and in the case of a debtor with a salary of seven average Slovenian wages for 18.32 euros per month. The discussion was about halving revenues due to the abolition of automatic valorisation. Remember, these automatic valorisations were not only included in this law, but also in some other regulations and introduced them in high inflation conditions. Today inflation is relatively low and the solution proposed in the bill does not mean that there will never be any such valorisations, but it does mean that these valorisations can occur when we jointly find that they are appropriate and each year, the Budget Implementation Act will be able to determine the coefficient by which the facilitations will be valorised or amended the limits of individual tax classes. The second topic, which has been raised several times today, is the issue of tax treatment of migrant workers. True, people have decided for various reasons to find employment outside Slovenian borders, but at the same time they maintain their permanent residence and their other interests in Slovenia, they also benefit from public services in Slovenia. The solution, as we tried to find in 2009 in discussions with representatives of people employed abroad, has now been annulled by the Constitutional Court with the argument that there are no particular reasons for a different treatment. We have met with representatives of migrant workers at the Ministry, discussed possible different solutions and continue these discussions. However, it is indisputably necessary to remove the solution which the Constitutional Court has found to be unconstitutional. With what new solution we can replace this solution, if we find an opportunity, we will try to settle matters as soon as possible. We must also be aware that the resolution of the situation through the amendment of the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation with the Republic of Austria does not constitute an exemption from the payment of income for the income of these debtors, but merely means an agreement which the State, or Slovenia or Austria, has the right to tax that income, but in accordance with its legislation. For this reason, we are not talking about excuses, but we are talking about which country cancels the tax, so that the tax gets another country. As regards the equalisation of the position of discharges for work for an indefinite period of time compared with the fixed-term work, we absolutely agree that these discharges should be equalised in their treatment in terms of the charging of public benefits from such discharges. But it is right that this equation is entirely, not only on income, but also on social security contributions. We are looking for solutions, coordinated or in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health and the social partners. The deal is, if we find a solution, we will propose in this novel that we resolve the matter through the amendment. Otherwise, this will be the subject of further coordination. In short, there is only the right to general relief that should be earned by collecting accounts. I hope we know that this means an additional heavy burden for those with the lowest income. These will be difficult to collect for €3,000 or €4,000 tax relief accounts, which would be suitable to enforce as a tax relief, and those with high incomes will no doubt be relatively quick and easy. As a result, these initiatives need to be very carefully thought out, studied and identified. In the course of the debate, it was ensured that the Ministry of Second Treatment would be provided with support for further consideration, that we would prepare the required calculations and then explain them orally and in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We have also exhausted the list of reported debaters. But time has not yet run out, and I ask you if anyone else wants to discuss it. Anyone else? I think it's better if we open up an opportunity to apply. Here you go. 29 panellists have been reported, we will ask the technical services about the available time. I don't think it's gonna be for all of five minutes, but the individual debater has a minute and 36 seconds. First it's mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Once again, it is easy to appeal to the coalition and the government to take this law out of further consideration and simply forget it and find 30 million in other areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to say, I've just been listening to this today, and I don't mind the content as much as the swindling on the opposition side. For these cross-border workers, I would say that their number has increased most in 2011. They work outside and have all the public goods and public education, health care here, so we need to find some dialogue here. I have heard that it is completely pointless to deal with the Constitutional Court's decision. I find that very strange, too. It has been repeatedly warned by the opposition that all the effects of these laws must be summed up. I would point out to the ZUJF, where it was not even possible to list the multiplier effects of almost 40 laws when it was adopted. So the comparison is virtually impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Most Members are now out of the question. Just a minute. Franc Jurša is next [[...]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'll wait for the gentlemen to agree between the benches and then get a chance to say a few words about what I think about the novelty of the law. At the outset, I would like to say that I would expect the applicant to be better evaluated and analysed, which are extremely, extremely stingy or, rather, poor or inappropriate. In fact, it is not an intervention of minor importance; the intervention will affect any taxpayer, a taxpayer. That is why I would expect more concrete analyses based on concrete calculations. Well, the promises have been made, and I expect that to be done. This novelty means a reduction in net wages, and at the same time means that consumption in the country will be even less per capita. Unfortunately, this time too, it breaks on the shoulders of a small man, a worker, a pensioner, a student, if you want a recipient of social assistance. The multi-annual crisis and its consequences are being tackled. It is not surprising that in our group of Members, on the basis of the opinion of the public, we consider this to be a covered mini-crisis tax. At this stage, I will find it difficult to support the novel, but I will, of course, expect more concrete changes to take place. What I said [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Thirty-six minutes is really little time. Next up is Marko Pavlišič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you. There's something else about tax, if we've talked more about another topic, which is about income. Some call these changes a mini-crisis tax, but I say it is better to have a mini-crisis tax than to have a maximum crisis tax. If we throw the numbers together, we see that there is actually going to be an increase in taxation below 1% or even significantly less, which means that there is not such a big change. Any change, every tax rise is definitely undesirable, but we have to choose between different measures. I will say that we have more desirable and less desirable; this is one of such easier forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u200	Your Honor! Those of you who are sympathetic to those workers who are going to Austria, I ask you if you know how many workers are going to Italy. There's nothing to talk about today. It's true that there's a lot of black work there, but they go to a dentist, and they go to school and so on in this country. Thus, it is necessary to be realistic, to see what these burdens are. As has already been said, Austria should be agreed not to be taxed twice. But why exactly would our country give up total tax, and I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Government of Janez Janša adopted a series of measures within the 2004-2008 mandate to relieve capital and the economy. I will mention only one tax; the corporate income tax has decreased or gradually decreased because it is intended to achieve competitiveness, even though it is known in Europe that this is not a key measure to increase competitiveness. We have not achieved a rise in competitiveness, the Slovenian economy has not prospered, on the contrary! The budget was not only because of this measure, but because of a number of measures, the multi-hundred-million-dollar hole. When it bothers you, Comrade Tanko, he is not in the hall, action with the checkers. Yes, in 2008, I wanted to make it very clear that an amendment to pension legislation should be adopted. By the way, in 2007 the Governor of Banka Slovenije warned the government of Janez Janša that the recession had taken place in Europe and that Slovenia must also prepare for recession by means of measures. Despite the clear monthly warnings to the government of Janez Janša, the same government took populism measures in the electoral year 2008 that added to the budget. If Slovenia were to prepare itself in time for the recession, I believe that such unpopular measures would not be forced to take today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The replica isn't in this part. However, I would like to warn everyone that we are talking about income and not about the actions of the government of Janez Janša. We're moving on. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u204	Dear Vice President! I propose procedurally first, and then I will explain that the parliamentary services immediately divide the anti-crisis proposals of the laws that the government of Janez Janša distributed and sent to this Parliament in autumn 2008, and then Parliament adopted two. One thing, among other things, is about the guaranteed role of citizens in maintaining the stability of the financial system. I propose that the documents be denied by this incomprehensible statement by the Member, who has deceived the Slovenian public. Indeed, the government of Janez Janša adopted a package of measures against the economic crisis in autumn 2008. At that time, we further reduced the tax rates, ensured the stability of the financial system, and in four concrete ways this thing went. This is what this parliament has received, and in the new composition of Borut Pahor, two of these laws have been supported, and two of them have been supported, but unfortunately not by further reductions in taxes. Therefore, I would really ask that this information be transmitted to the bench, and this also denies these claims, which are attracted to the hair.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. Just an explanation. Your proposal is not in accordance with the rules of procedure, so we will not make this proposal. However, we are working in the so-called e-government and I invite all Members and Members to take a look at these measures online. Here you are, Mr. Shircelj, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u206	Yeah, it's procedural. My procedural proposal is to split the final accounts of the 2007 budget and 2008 budget and that the Member State will be able to see there that the budget was even positive and that there is no mention of any hundred million holes, which she has actually talked about. This is the biggest misdirection of the public, because at the time public finances were positive and even had a certain surplus and there was no deficit. I think that this Parliament has also adopted the final budget account and probably also voted. For this reason, once again, procedurally, to divide it and make Members and Members see what it was like [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u207	Thank you very much. That's how it leads if we don't talk about the content that's on the agenda. However, your proposal is also not in accordance with the rules of procedure. Everything is, as it were, online. We continue with the debate Just a moment – and with this crowds checked out. [[...]] Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you very much. There has been a lot of talk that the changes to the Income Act this time are being pursued by the poorest inhabitants of this country. I would like to point out that these changes will be best known in the family budgets of the middle class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Now it's mag. Andrej Vizjak. I'm sorry, mag. Katarina Hotchevar is even earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Automatic indexation is being carried out, which means that we will pay more for the income of the citizens. However, these amounts are much smaller than the introduction of a crisis tax, which I am glad that the Government has withdrawn from the agenda. Otherwise, as a Member, I will repeatedly remind this government of the commitment made by the finance minister to make one-third of the revenue and two-thirds of the expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Now it's magic. A viscous and then Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you very much. In my previous mandate, I was Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and we have also proposed a series of cuts in rights in this area, but we have never and never proposed cuts in the socially weak, or in the income recipients there at minimum wage; this is said to be the lowest income. The government, with which the Social Democrats and others are involved, is now cutting into this sphere of the most socially weak in the second case. The minimum wage for an individual who enforces only general relief will be reduced by around 20 euros and other measures already taken will also know this in these scissors, as costs are rising due to tax hikes and other things. I'm talking about a real fall, of course, it's called a fall, what with that money to buy. It's true that nominally things can stay the same, but they actually fall. That's what you say. You get less for that money. And you can blind people by having the same numbers, but if you buy less with those euros, they'll be in a socially worse position. This is said, instead of looking for solutions in the start of the economy, you are saving the budget in terms of burdening the socially weak as well, and I am truly surprised that all of these, or once socially, today are in some way silently and painfully supporting these meaningless proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u213	Thank you very much. And Mr. Pojbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u214	Thank you. I will not support this law because it is antisocial, unacceptable to most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Let's see how this government supports socially disadvantaged groups in our country: firstly, VAT hikes have affected everyone, pensioners, workers, social threats; controlled liquidation of the Bank, Probanks from 400 million to billion euros from the pockets of those most vulnerable, increased economic burdens – we have this law on the table today, increased population burden – we have this law on the table today, abolition of tax relief for residents employed in Austria and Italy, reduction of the minimum wage not to mention property taxes. Are these social policy measures? These are the actions of this government, these coalitions? Are these social measures? Somebody explain this to me! Look what Mr. Luksic said. "Social Democrats absolutely reject the debate on interventions to the minimum wage, which in workers sees only costs and in this tel light I welcome the union forecast of demonstrations," SD Champion Igor Luksic was determined at the press conference. And look what the Social Democrats are doing in Parliament today! They support lowering the minimum wage. That is exactly how Positive Slovenia is doing. We are against unilateral intervention in the minimum wage, it was published today in Dnevnik. And I ask you kindly, I ask you, this makes it very clear that this government and this coalition and this whole Slovenian nation have us as complete fools. You say one thing and you do something completely different. Don't be embarrassed!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. We have also concluded this with a second round of discussions. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's half-hour schedule, exactly at 6.30 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u216	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of the voting devices first. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Reparation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a compensation law for persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations is suitable for further consideration. I ask Members and Members if anyone wants to explain his voice? Yes, Mr Grimes. Anyone else? Mr Grimes, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you. Of course, we will not support the law in the SDS Group. I would like to recall that the law that speaks of compensation, i.e. compensation, is the fruit of the ten-year rejection of all the proposals made in the SDS, of all calls for consensus, and that today, even by the Government, which you yourself have put up, recognises that there is a possibility that if things go wrong, as the Minister has said, there is a possibility that damages will exceed a billion euros. At a time when it was time for different solutions, when it was possible to adopt a constitutional law, you rejected this by reasoning that there would never be compensation because there could never be. A quote that these are fairy tales; we were accused of being liars. So the fruit of this arrogance will be at a time when the country is in trouble, an extremely heavy additional burden, which is very critical in these many points. On the one hand, it touches on concrete human destiny, which may have been very tragic, could have been the victims of mistakes, but on the other hand it covers – because you have compressed everything into one boiler and this was also your goal – even those who were aggressors during the war for independent Slovenia who calculated themselves or at the expense of their neighbors, at the expense of their own country. This, of course, is not compatible with modern law and this raises a number of questions to which we would expect an appropriate answer. Europe has lost its nerve, in some way the judgment of the European Court proves this, but this does not mean that we owe it to everyone and to admit that they were victims of some mistake. On the contrary! We should still look at what and what period someone has been doing, what and what period someone has done, and that this would achieve a goal that should have already been achieved from the beginning; to correct mistakes, injustices, if actually done and where they have been. That no one who has calculated on the account of independent Slovenia or even attacked it with a weapon can benefit from this. Our final decision on the law, which I believe you will confirm and therefore bear all responsibility, will depend on further decisions on the amendments that we will, of course, submit at the next stage of the hearing, when we decide on the welfare of all, because it is a billion euros, for the damages that you have claimed there will be no, because it can never be.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. President, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u219	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I said earlier in the debate that all these debates about so-called deleted – that I will not be corrected because we call them'so-called' because otherwise the word is longer and I mean nothing wrong with it – with this eternal debate we certainly have been doing harm to Slovenia's reputation and exacerbating the political atmosphere in Slovenia for many years. In view of the wide variety of cases, one of her colleagues earlier said that there were three categories. I am sure that there are still a significant number of categories of deleted existence, and therefore I firmly believe that individual cases should be resolved as individual cases. Unfortunately, though, we missed that train a long time ago. Now we have an order, if you want, or a decision, or a decision by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights and something has to be done in this area. In the parliamentary group, we have decided that what we now have on the table, which is ready, must be supported in the first reading, perhaps there will be some better solutions for further consideration, this is what we expect in the second reading. As it is said, this matter must be moved forward so that I do not repeat what I have said before. As it is said, we missed the train so that matters could be solved individually in order to solve the problems of individuals who were sure to be. It is now up to us to resolve roughly this way, as we have prepared a proposal for a first-reading law. As we say in the Group of Members, we will confirm the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Potrata, would you like to speak on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u221	The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will support the law at first reading. We regret that we have failed to catch the deadline set by the European Court of Human Rights, which has also found in its judgment that there is a legal void because we do not have an orderly compensation scheme for those who have been wronged by erasure from the register of permanent residents. There has been a finding of injustice, Article 26 of the Constitution provides that the State is to correct the injustice, the 2010 law has resolved the status issues, and we regret that there are individuals who, despite the law adopted, cannot regulate their status. And now it's the law that will settle the damages. On behalf of the applicants, Minister Virant also explained that even so many times the constitutional law mentioned would not resolve what the constitutional law's proponents actually wanted to achieve. They wanted to rule out any possibility of compensation, and the Constitution commands this, so that our Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights could see such a provision as unacceptable and illegal. On behalf of the proposer, it has also been said that, as the compensation scheme is now set up, this is still a very heavy burden for the Slovenian budget, and the amount of which has been talked about has been significantly lower, I think it has been said that €5.50 million has been said, I stress much, but billions will if the rights that individuals will exercise in the European Court of Human Rights are challenged, unless we are able to resolve the matter in such a way as to be acceptable to the vast majority of the affected. Once again, we will support the law in this treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Möderndorfer is also on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Madam President. In Positive Slovenia we will support this law, but we regret that this was not regulated ten or fifteen years ago. But it is terrifying to listen to various insinuations and predictions, and again what we are accustomed to listening to on the left, is just a common fear. No one, no one in this country has the right and had the right to do what he did and what happened to these people. But I would very much like to see those who today oppose and divide on one side or the other to at least virtually do so in an hour to feel at least a fraction of the horror of these people that have happened to them. I am confident that the Minister will come with a recast law, with additional comments that have been made in the debate itself, and with a proposal that will regulate this in the way that is appropriate for the modern, modern and developed country that we want to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 75 Members or Members of Parliament present. He voted in favour of 49 and against 1 Member or Member of Parliament. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the draft law will therefore be allocated for consideration to the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. This concludes this agenda item. However, we continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of the Income of Legal Persons under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 23. 9. 2013 Anyone want a word before the vote? Mr Shircelj, we decide or we debate, you have the floor to Article 7. Here's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you very much. In fact, the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons has the solution to halt the reduction in the tax rate which should be reduced to 16 % in the following year and to 15 % in 2015. This amendment, which was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, wants to do so, in our view, to ease the consequences a little bit and actually continue to reduce the level of corporate income taxes. This is because profits in the Slovenian economy are falling, that more and more businesses are losing, that the number of unemployed and bankruptcys is increasing, and this means a bad sign for the Slovenian economy. It also means a bad sign for the Ministry of Finance or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, because income from corporate income tax actually falls and has more than halved over the last two years or four years. This means that the budget must receive revenue from other titles, from other taxes, which is actually happening. However, the declining rate or halting the reduction of corporate income tax is a particularly poor signal for those who want to invest in Slovenia, who have also done their industrial projects and who have calculated a 15% or 15% rate in 2014 in these projects. The change in the business conditions for investors means that they have to do it all over again, and this will lead to even less investment in the country and that the gross social product will in fact continue to fall. That is why we will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I'll open the application. Sign up, please. You are applying on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Jerko Čehovin on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u227	Thank you. In Positive Slovenia we will vote against this amendment. Then we'll confirm the second part. Indeed, this amendment theoretically states that the rate should be reduced next year and then the following year. In our view, the rate of 17 % is appropriate. We are not returning or increasing taxes to 18%, not 20% as it was, but will remain at 17%. In our view, this tax, in particular because its effective rate is 12%, is appropriate and is not one that would affect investments in the Slovenian economy. We talk so much about these investors who are supposed to be standing around waiting for buses at the border — I don't know which ones — who are just wondering if we're going to have a 15% tax in two years and now we're going to put in big money right now. Moreover, this tax has no effect in any way, as we have already said, on the multitude of small independent entrepreneurs, some paying the tax at an effective rate of 41%. There's no hearing for you. As I said before, this tax is essentially only for capital owners, not for businesses. Finally, we have a number of companies that are still state-owned, where the state has the largest majority of shares, and these companies would practically translate from one pocket to another. Thus, we do not think that this amendment is appropriate, that it is more a reflection of some populist desire and self-promotion, of how the opposition cares for the economy, while the coalition oppresses it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? And now I'm opening up an opportunity to explain my voice in a personal name. Anybody got a wish? I'll just open it up. I guess there's more than one wish. Please sign in. Mag. Ivan Vogrin and then Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If you remember, there are competition scales of countries. A few years ago, Slovenia was quite highly ranked, i.e. among very competitive countries. Now he falls for a few cities every year. This is an excellent incentive to fall for a few more cities and to be even less competitive. That's the first reason this amendment would make sense to support it. The second reason is that it is possible to have such a rich social state as the rich economy, how well the economy works. I'm afraid we're cutting the budget short, and we're destroying and spitting in the hand that feeds us. Why do we have a problem with reducing social rights today? For a simple reason, because the economy does not generate enough added value. Minister Stepišnik, the last time I spoke to him in Parliament this week, said that the Ministry is preparing certain measures to encourage companies with greater added value; and here is the key. We must not destroy businesses with measures such as this law, because an unstable business environment, a changing business environment, is not favourable to domestic companies that operate and, of course, not to those that come to us. Vote for the amendment, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u231	Your Honor! With this proposal, the government wants to prevent further economic burdens. It wants to prevent further declines in the general tax rate, which, of course, affects a number of factors. Firstly, it affects the fact that there is no predictable tax environment in this country, as tax rates are changing from year to year and it is very difficult to predict what will happen in the future. This tax rate was not set when the opposition liked it, but when the opposition was in a position responsible for taking these decisions to lower taxes in Slovenia. Why? Because she believed in one simple fact that with lower tax rates than several taxpayers she could collect more tax. The lower tax rates also prevent or do not encourage tax evasion or tax avoidance, since if the lower tax rate is, it pays a lot more than to risk avoiding what is happening at higher tax rates. The prevention of further reductions in the tax rate is also contrary to efforts to limit the grey economy. The best fight against the grey economy is that taxes are low, because then there is no pay or no point in tax evasion, but it is worth the legal work, and thus the circle of taxpayers is expanding and, last but not least, preventing further tax evasion or general tax relief from corporate income tax, also affects Slovenia's competitiveness. Slovenia's competitiveness has not always fallen. It is now falling from 2009, 2010 onwards, and it is strong. From 2004 to 2009, the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy improved and we made progress compared to our partners. So only in the last period do we record these negative trends, and with such a government policy we will only continue to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We can vote. We therefore vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7 of the Act. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And we have thus concluded our decision on the amendment, as well as the second reading of the bill. We are moving on and on with the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment to the draft law was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Anyone else would like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group first? Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u233	In the Slovenian People's Party, we voted in favour of the amendment we voted on. We can't support a law like this. We agree with those who are anxiously warning that changing the tax environment for our economy is something that should not be played by any government, something that should ensure that Slovenia continues to be an interesting government, that entrepreneurs from Slovenia do not choose other destinations and that someone should also come to invest in Slovenia. Last year, with measures that went on one side of both the flat rate, there was a higher tax rate and, on the other hand, incentives for development and research were introduced to facilitate investment investment, as well as this reduced tax rate, the instruments with which we were also recognised among economists as hearing the sound of the economy, and we are aware that taxes are not collected solely from corporate income tax, that it is very important that people are employed, that they are not employed, that they are not burdened by society, that they are paid in pension bills, that they are paid in health bills. Believe it or not, those who invest will also in the years to come, with the very tax on profits, pay everything back richly, which will make it easier for them when they decide to invest, so this is another step in the wrong direction. The debate has repeatedly said that it is a minor intervention, that we are also comparable in this taxation to others, that more developed countries have even higher taxes, and certainly when we put together now the whole package that the Government has already adopted in one part and the other package of legislation is still coming to Parliament, we see that in some ways the attack or burden of the economy is enormous and that this will certainly be known in smaller economic activities, in fewer jobs. In the Slovenian People's Party, we firmly believe that this is not the way out of the crisis, that the path to deepening the crisis and searching for some shortcuts is how to take from those who do not have organised groups in society that would defend them against the nonsense committed by the Government, so we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvat, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u235	Thank you very much, colleague vice president. Colleagues and colleagues! We regret that the amendment we have just decided did not receive support; we regret that this coalition rejected it. This amendment would, at least in some way, reduce the negative effects of the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, so we will vote against the law. This law is a step down the competition ladder, so we will be against this law. This law is a signal that the business environment is unstable in Slovenia, so we will be against this law. It does not make sense to compare the tax bases in Slovenia with the tax bases in the Member States of the European Union. Why not? Because there is nowhere else as bad a business environment as in Slovenia. I regret that, and that's the truth. This tax is not oxygen for the economy, so we will be against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Frangež, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u237	Well, I regret that, unfortunately, some rational attitude towards matter does not prevail in this debate. I absolutely agree that we should not change the whole country at the time of the left or right governments. This is what we've been doing for the last few mandates. Right Victory – changes the concept, wins the left – changes the concept backwards or vice versa. And that's wrong! I agree that this distances us from some stable, predictable environment in which the entrepreneur would know what kind of environment he will operate in and where other areas could be expected to get what we can expect from the country and the community. However, what makes me lacking reasonableness in this debate is the fact that the effective tax rate on the income of legal persons in Slovenia is already 12% because, to such an extent, entrepreneurs have calculated tax reliefs. And let's face it or not, this is one of the lowest effective tax rates in Europe. In any event, at the lower bottom there is a tax on the income of legal persons. I suggest that we not take advantage of every opportunity to develop demagogy to the limit of heaven in the National Assembly, but to try to talk soberly about things. Every million less under this tax increases the need for us to take it somewhere. And with respect and respect, I ask you what would be the need less after the introduction of value added tax or real estate tax today, if you did not insist last year that you have reduced this tax, and you did not contribute by one hundred to the fact that Slovenia's competitiveness would actually improve. Moreover, even after this year's indicators and the scales, this competitiveness has fallen because it is not a problem. Because the problem of our competitiveness is elsewhere and is much more complex than the question of the percentage of more or less corporate income taxation. That's why I'm calling for reason. However, we will support the amendment of the law because it does not increase tax burdens, but stabilise the level of taxation at the level of one of the lowest in Europe, thus ensuring that cuts in those areas that may be significantly more painful for people in this country will be smaller.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Chekovin or Mr. Jerič? Mr. Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u239	As has already been said, we will support the amendment of the law. In doing so, I must reiterate that we have one of the lowest effective rates, which is the tax achieved on the profits of legal persons. However, only three countries in the European Union have nominally lower rates. Cyprus and Bulgaria have 10%, by the way. I do not have any data that this low tax would make these two countries into favourable business environments and that these low levels of investment would just make them wooded in these two countries. It's not like that. Another thing, again for the public. I know that it's been 25 times today that we've been lied to raise taxes. No, we're lowering taxes compared to last year's. Downstairs. Last year it was 18%, this year it will be 17%, but at this stage it will also be frozen, because we consider that, in particular, the effective rate achieved is appropriate. Can anyone here tell me how much we had from this tax on foreign direct investment last year when you introduced it? You introduced it, as I said before, thinking it might lead to some kind of investment, but the main problem in Slovenia is not this tax. The main problem, which is also being pointed out by foreign partners, is the problems of obtaining locations, obtaining permits, around long-term procedures, and we need to address this, this is a common task. But that is the responsibility of those listed parties who have been in this Parliament for twenty years. Therefore, I repeat that we do not think that this 17% rate has been opposed by the economists, nor do they say that this rate is problematic. [[...]] Once again, I think it's only a matter of deceiving and pure demagogy that we're going to dramatically increase direct investment. We will support the tax or this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? In your own name? So, who wants to discuss it on their own? Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u241	Thank you. Smart tax policy, of course, is in the direction of stimulating the economy, increasing investment and can therefore be development-oriented. However, foolish tax policy is capable of placing a burden on investment to such an extent that it freezes. In Slovenia, we have just witnessed the start of entrepreneurs to stop their investments in Slovenia, for example, Mr Akrapovic, who has stopped the investment that has opened up 100 new jobs in the White Krajina because of a completely flawed tax policy of the current government. By doing so, Slovenia has been in need of 100 new jobs, which would have been bloodyly needed there, and with all the tax inflows it has made permanent under this heading. This is a devastating tax policy and one part of it is ahead of us today. We are voting on this and I will vote against it, because where this policy brings us, it is seen from different international scales. The last one published speaks of economic freedom. We have found ourselves within the European Union in the far last place, far behind all others, in a society of countries such as the Republic of Congo, Zimbabwe, Chad and several other similar countries. That is where we are led by such a tax policy that you support. This tax policy is only worth sending as soon as possible to the history dump.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerič, you wanted a word earlier, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Madam President. I also associate myself with the view that there is no tax on the income of legal persons in terms of a percentage up, a percentage down cannot and does not constitute a problem of the start-up of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia. If you took this theory into account, then you would like to listen to the Dutch and Belgian countries that have the tax. – at 35%, the tax is 35%, practically without foreign investment, their economy should be at the level of the countries mentioned by Mr Grims before me. The problems of starting our economy and the inability to compete for a large part of the economy, there are bright exceptions to be commended, to follow their model, and unfortunately for many other economic operators, we find that they have problems such as products and services of higher value added, problems with this labour law, bank cramping and lack of liquidity in terms of start-up funding. I will fully support the law and consider it totally unfounded to say that in the Republic of Slovenia, a percentage up or down of the corporate income tax is fatal or is in fact at all important for the start of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I will open the debate because there are more wishes to apply. Here you go. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, that's an explanation for the voice. [[...]] I'm sorry, but it doesn't change the point. The first one is Mr. Franz Breznik. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u245	Madam President, thank you for your word. I have to respond somehow to the things you're just mentioning. Look, every government is setting up its own agenda for some kind of economic macroeconomic policy. Arguing why only one percent or two could create and make our area somehow more competitive is like taking one candy out of a candy bar. Janševa's so-called conservative liberal policy led foreign investors to the following assessment: we sold Slovenian bonds at 4.2% interest rate, and your government, with your economic policy, sold these bonds at 6%. So at the start you made Slovenian taxpayers more than €600 million minus for the next 10 years. This is the story and the market determines what kind of government creates economic policy and here is the whole assessment. We don't need to argue about this at all, dear colleagues and colleagues. Time will bring about what your macroeconomic policy is, within the framework of macroeconomic policy, also tax policy and what was the tax policy or macroeconomic policy of the Janša government. I think that the international market, the international investors who are currently funding our most public spending, so we are not creating anything at this time, have told us how much we are worth at this moment and what politicians trust. Thus, it would be pointless to continue and waste any time that I think is currently not an ally of the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u246	But you're going to vote how?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u247	I already told you I'd go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u248	Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u249	Your Honor! Of course, I cannot support solutions such as those proposed by this law, which prevents further decommissioning of the economy. Slovenia, as one of the few countries in the euro area and also among the 28 European countries, is still in recession, and many economies are already recovering. In short, measures have been taken in these countries to ensure some optimism or some trust. Slovenia is not yet at this positive stage, and therefore all measures which further burden the economy – and this measure further burdens the economy with regard to the law currently in force – are inappropriate. For Slovenia can only lead out of the crisis a recovering economy, new jobs. The economy also finances the functioning of this country and the public sector as a whole, ensures an education system, health care, last but not least provides a pension scheme and the consequent payment of pensions, ensures a wide range of benefits in this country, in fact the functioning of all subsystems, and therefore the machete attitude towards this key supply provider of the Slovenian State is not in place. The government should focus all its energy on economic recovery measures and avoid measures that further strengthen stagnation or pull stagnation or even economic downturn. That is why I cannot understand the government's demeaning attitude towards economic proposals and measures such as those before us today, so I will vote against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u250	Thank you very much. And Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I will vote against this law because it actually gives a very bad signal to the public, to the local public and to the international public. When we talk about the economy and competitiveness, we know very well that we know more about the criteria on which each country's competitiveness is determined. The tax system is one of these criteria. If we place an extremely high labour tax here, if we talk about the forecasts and new taxes that the economy will pay, then Slovenia will probably go even further down the competitiveness ladder. It is true that this law will not now depend on the tax system as a whole, the whole of competitiveness, which is one piece of the country's competitiveness. The next, with such solutions, is actually reducing the stability of the financial system and, on the other hand, the predictability of the financial system, which is essential for investors. Constant legislative change means that the tax system and the economic system are unstable, and this will be what will deter investors from our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u252	Just a minute. More desire to explain your voice. Please sign up. Three reported. The first is Mr Ivan Simčič. You're giving up. Next up is Mrs. Alexandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will fully support this marriage myself. As I have already said many times today, it is a tax on income or the profits of legal persons for whom all economic operators are bound, but only those economic operators and companies that generate profits pay it. Companies operating negatively do not pay this tax. Let me mention once again that we have one of the lowest rates, that is 17%, which has declined since 2006 from 25%, last year 2012 to 18%, this year 2013 which will be paid in 2014 and 17%. Let me mention here that no one has mentioned micro-enterprises, small businesses or independent entrepreneurs. These independent entrepreneurs pay the tax as natural persons. But we have three degrees, 16%, 27% and 50%. Thank you. I'll support the marriage myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u254	Thank you very much. And Mr. Matjaz Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u255	Thank you very much. One thing I would really like to break this thesis that the opposition is going through right now. I believe that much is not clear to you and that most of you have not paid another euro of tax, but I will tell you one thing that 90% of the economists would not want to pay 17% of the money, but 20% – if we could get to it. Unfortunately, they don't come to that. And you know that even if you have a profit, then you have an advance, you can lower the deposit, etc. Everything with the tax administration can be arranged. But you're running a demagogy. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u256	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u257	You can laugh, but I can see that there was a small company on that side of you and a few people paid for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u258	Mr. Han, don't argue with the other side.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u259	And you, please, calm them down when I speak, if I may. Then give me back my watch.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u260	If you don't paralyze, there won't be a response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u261	This tax, ladies and gentlemen, will not affect competitiveness. We have other taxes before we get to those that have an impact on competitiveness. But there we could talk to the economists and also with the opposition. But when we've just stopped the tax drop on profits, believe me, there will be no harm to the economics. And one more thing, Mr. Joseph Horvat, is that in the Oxygen document [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u262	Mr. Han! Mr. Han [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u263	the economy has not been told that the economists with this tax, I will say with a suspended tax they do not agree. [[...]] He didn't write this in this oxygen if you read it, but something else. And then the state has to do something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u264	Mr. Han! Just a minute! Mr Han, this time you have used your ability to explain your voice very harshly and you have disputed with the other side, mentioned your names, and now we will probably have to respond to it. You can't just have a moment to explain. [[...]] There's no replica in this part. But you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't blame my colleague Matjaž Han for mentioning me; I understand his views; I don't blame him at all. But this is what I suggest, Madam Vice President, that you ask your colleague Han to apologize. I think it flew to the opposition Members and Members, and we have been told that we have not paid a single euro of tax in our lives. Mr. Han, that's too much. I demand an apology, here in front of everyone and in front of the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Just one comment, please. You'll get your word. Mr. Horvath has made it clear what he wants. However, it is up to Mr Han whether he will do so or not. Mr. Han, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u267	I have no problem, Mr. Joseph Horvat, apologizing and I will apologize. When you started laughing because I was talking about the deposit and so on – you probably don't know that then you're also paying the deposit – I thought most of you didn't have companies because I read that you didn't have companies, that you, I'll say anything, and you didn't pay the profit tax, unlike some others [[...]] [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] Look, since I haven't been clear enough, I apologize to you from this place. I'm talking about corporate tax because I know most of you don't have a business or have one.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u268	Good. The apology was made, probably also accepted. Is there still a desire to explain your voice? The tech hasn't interrupted the timeline. As my colleague has told me, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go, sir. I just don't know who it is. [[...]] Do you have a procedural proposal, too?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u269	I've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u270	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. I understand that they feel bad in the coalition because they stop those laws in such a way that they do not lower or lower more tax rates, as the basic law stipulated, or increase them. However, I would like to tell my colleague Han that we pay all the taxes we pay, the incomes, even in companies we worked, we were not all on the FDV, but we do not have tycoon allowances, gentlemen, and that is not what we are charging, and that is all on your side. Last week we had, and you voted on some tycoon stuff that everyone's gonna pay for. However, I would suggest that when you explain your vote, give it to the Members of the SDS Group or even the opposition, if necessary, take the floor on behalf of your Group of Members, an explanation of vote on behalf of your Group of Members. Everything else, Mr Han, but leave it to the others, everyone will give their opinion, no one has challenged anyone, but everyone has the right to say what they think about the measure proposed. Also in the context of explanations of vote. I don't care what you think, it's your opinion, and I don't care what your parliamentary group thinks, so I suggest you, Madam Vice-President, as part of your explanation of vote, make sure that this actually takes place in a decent and appropriate manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I take it action is triggering a reaction. Mr Bogovic has a procedural proposal first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u273	Since I can see that colleague Matjaž wants to speak, he will also be able to speak for me and also speak in the procedure. But since we've known each other for many years, Comrade Matjaž, you know that I had a 16-year-old company, including twenty employees, I paid all my taxes, all my interest to banks, so I don't accept this criticism that we don't know and that we didn't pay any taxes. Let me also explain that in our parliamentary group we also have the wife of a Member of the Fisherman company dealing with accounting counseling. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] – I apologize, ma'am, I have the floor, I hope that you will let me tell you to the end – which deals with tax advice and if anyone is troubled by tax advice, we recommend that we offer free advice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u274	Just a minute. I hope that these procedural proposals will slowly come to an end. Can we just calm down? Thank you very much. I propose a vote, except in the express interest of the new procedural proposals, but please do not abuse them anymore. You know I have to give you my word by the rules of procedure, you have the word and the responsibility to make a procedural proposal to be used.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u275	Vice President, I'm not gonna use it. I apologized to everyone, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the payment of taxes of such or other persons is concerned, I would warn you, Vice President, however. My proposal is that you invite my colleague, Mr Jožet Tank, to apologize to the Group of the Social Democrats, for he has accused us of having gentlemen in this Group of Members who have received theirs, I will say, assets at the expense of the tycoons. So I would have asked if I had to apologize, it is good that those who hold the meeting of the national assembly have the same vats for all, both for the left and for the right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Han. Okay, we've been here a long time today. Since I have the same vats for everyone, I didn't order you any excuses, so you decided. Is there any other desire for a procedural proposal? Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u277	Look, Vice President, your job is to lead. Unlike the others, I will not abuse, but what you are doing is here now that you have turned the Reported we have to explain the vote, give procedural, in fact allow Tanko to actually take over your role and here share what is right and what is wrong, but you simply do not want to lead what is given you with the rules and with the function you are wearing. [[...]] Please, if you're doing at least what's right and what's right in your mission. Please, if you can get us to the end of this point, just as you deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u278	We would save two minutes if we didn't apply for a procedural proposal in which you read levies. You know very well that I have to give you my word of order if you ask for it. Everything is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the matter has been calmed down slowly and I propose that we proceed with the vote [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, we no longer have an explanation for the vote. I had previously opened an application for explanations of vote, Mr Bogovic wanted a procedural proposal. Once again, I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their voice on their behalf. Let him raise his hand. No, no, no. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 32. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. Again, I'm giving you the opportunity to sign up for an explanation of vote. First, on behalf of the Group of Members. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. I can't see the deadlines clearly. Go ahead and report it. Sign up, please. Jasmina Opec has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u279	Thank you very much. We will not support the Slovenian People's Party's Group of the Admissions Act because it is an income tax, an additional burden on citizens and an additional attack on families. Since the proposals for a solution are not in line with the social partners and because it is only a matter of abolishing the specific tax relief for migrant workers without an appropriate alternative solution that would not make their situation and the situation of their families worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u281	Thank you very much. We will not support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We believe that it is not suitable for further consideration, it means unilateral intervention in the minimum wage, it means that 44,000 people with a minimum wage will pay an additional tax and that this will actually reduce their net salary by EUR 20 and, of course, by all other citizens and citizens of Slovenia. This law is not in line with the social partners, as it appears, nor is it coalitionly coordinated, and therefore we do not believe that it is suitable for further consideration, for further proceedings. In some ways, it's a perfidious tax, a new tax, a crisis tax, whatever we call it. In fact, it will mean even more poverty in the social field, in fact, we can say worse. In addition, this solution will help to ensure that people are even less willing, motivated, active, on the one hand active incomes will increase, passive incomes, and these are various subsidies, and in fact they will increase. The question here is where to get 30 million euros. The government could get EUR 30 million in other areas, in public procurement, at material costs, probably something in state-owned property management, bank management and, on the one hand, taxation by the poorest and everything else, on the other hand, is easy to give to two leather banks 400 million and is likely to be even higher in price for these solutions. For this reason, we will not support a further procedure for this tax in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u282	Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This is also the case, as mentioned in the debate on our part, for some hidden crisis tax, some hypocritical crisis tax, and because of this novelty of the Income Act in the parliamentary group, we cannot support it, so we will vote against the decision. I repeat what I said in the debate, by this measure the Government again deserves the title 'a family of unfriendly government'. This amendment to the Income Act is also another measure for attacking rural areas. In the countryside, people can still pick up one cent from the ground. I think you understand what I'm saying. I regret that at once, of course, I understand the Constitutional Court's decision, but that, at the same time, without the slightest effort, we make it easier for day-to-day migrants. It is Pomurce, it is Koroše, of course it is also those who are at the Slovenian-Italian border. I think that this matter could be solved in a slightly different way, of course with more effort. That is also why we will be against the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? Opening login option. Five people reported. The first one is mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll quote the Secretary of State's statement, mag. Mitja Movka. He said: "We need extra money to cover the budget hole." Now I ask a little myself, but few of you, is that really all we can do in Slovenia. Is that really all this House can do? What can this government do? Since we need money to raise the budget hole, we raise the tax. Is that all we can do? Have we taken any other measures to reduce the budget gap than to raise taxes, raise indirect taxes, vignettes, tolls and so on, to release the prices of municipal services, so that we still reduce family budgets and borrow abroad? I think this is the wrong way, although we say it's the right way. And now I'm going to remind you of the fact. When the wage system for the public sector was adopted, it was widely said that this was the only right one, how nothing would affect the budget deficit. Each year 800 million, in four years five billion, or five four billion. This is our reality because we don't know the numbers and we're talking about it. That's the wrong thing to do. We should've done something different. The public sector would pay for the ratio of 1 to 5, so we would get the money without putting the social burden on the weakest. Some in the public sector have salaries of €6,000 net, and then additionally in various supervisory [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u287	Your Honor, since we're quoting statements, I'm going to be a fresh one from yesterday. The President of the Government asked the Head of the Group of Social Democrats on the minimum wage – he said that the Social Democrats said that this was not a topic of unilaterally interfering with the minimum wage – said: "Also, Positive Slovenia opposes any unilateral intervention in the minimum wage. Let's make this clear from this place. And this is one of the measures that we're talking about, I'm going to say, just like that, through the media, without any pre-negotiations, agreements, and so on." These are literally quoted statements by the President of the Government from yesterday's meeting. Today, one day after that, we have here the Income Act, which interferes with the minimum wage unilaterally. Minimum wages will fall by about 20 euros due to this law [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] , the minimum wage will be reduced by EUR 20 per year as a result of this measure, but this is a unilateral intervention without prior agreement. You also told the Social Democrats that this is not a topic to be discussed, President of the Government, but today this proposal. This is not just talking, this is a proposal that we will decide today and I will strongly oppose you. Unilateral intervention into the most vulnerable workers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u288	Mr. Möderndorfer, just a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u289	Dear Mr Möderndorfer, with a full ass it's easy – you know what. But these are the people who work and get for this minimum wage and you're interfering with this hard-earned money. Not to talk about people with average wages. Two workers with an average salary in a four-year family with two children will receive about €300 per year with this proposal. These are measures — for what? For the destruction of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u290	Mr. Matevž Frangež has the floor. Mr. Möderndorfer, you don't have a word for it right now. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u291	First of all, as much as I am pleased with the statement made by the President of the Government, let me remind you here that that chair is the Prime Minister, not the party's president. And that's where the president of the party is speaking, not about the government's views, not about the views of individual parties. Secondly, let's stop with the demagogies that are possible every second of this debate, and I'll say, big and thick. I would also like to see sobriety return to debate on this issue. Here, there is only a political motive with repetition, an innumerable repetition of a lie or a reverse [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u292	Just a minute. Now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u293	Mr. Visjak, now shut up because I have the word! I have my word and you keep doing it! You and your colleagues by attacking the interlocutor prevent the clear thoughts of your political opponents, and that is not correct, Mr Vizjak. If the Vice-President of the National Assembly can't prevent this, I will! Respected and respected to get back to the point; we also have some problems with this law in all three solutions, in departures, in the rescue of migrants and in the issue of non-compliance with inflation. However, unlike any other government, this government is not only doing what is commanded above, but the rest of us just have to follow it blindly. No, here we want to look creatively for common solutions that will be best for the situation of this country and the situation of its people. And I will support these solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u294	Thank you very much. You will have your word, Mr. Han, just a moment. I'd like to ask if they'd calm down a little bit, because otherwise I'm predicting it's very difficult. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] If I can say it to the end, because I want you to know what I'm going to do otherwise. It is very difficult to calm the debate when it comes to such a point as it is now. But I can calm her down in such a way that I can stop the session, and I'm gonna interrupt her for something that I can't say for hours. I think we all have an interest in closing this meeting in due course, so I ask you to calm down your passions and continue to discuss or explain our voices. Mr Branko Ficko is next in line to explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u295	Thank you. Obviously, the ball needs to be calmed down a little bit, and especially those who have been in this Parliament for a long time, I have the feeling that they have this as a home kitchen, this school of learning has obviously carried them a little bit. As far as I'm concerned, I'll support this income law at first reading with reservations. What I do not agree with, of course, is the abolition of the special tax relief for the daily migrants for those of our 20,000 Prekmurci, the Pomurci, the Styrians, as well as those who are going to Italy who have sought a job in this country, because we cannot provide them with this at home and, of course, we would like to tax them in this way. It is true that a constitutional decision must be respected, but it is true that the constitutional decision also refers to the fact that the National Assembly or the Government has failed to show reasonable and real reasons for the privileged position of these residents and that the Government has not demonstrated its objectives. In this way, I believe that there is still room to resolve matters at second reading, and I propose that the Ministry consider supplementing Article 41, where the average income of an individual resident can be added and that this matter can be reasonably resolved. Thus, at this first reading, of course, I will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. Ficko. We've got another debater, mag. Branko Grimes. Here's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u297	Thank you. I have a magnetogram in front of me. Matthew the Vranicator confirms what was said. It's also a minimum wage intervention. For how much money it is, it was well said, it is 20 euros, on average the figure is much, much bigger. All those who don't understand it, unfortunately, you're just apologizing to that old saying that the crows don't understand the hungry. People find it extremely difficult to put an end to this, and every additional burden is a drastic intervention in their lives, in their quality of life, in what they should all be providing together. And that the measure is full, we have witnessed in the National Assembly the commitment of the President of the Government, ministers, individual parties, who have all in a row swore that such interventions will not be carried out without the full consent of the social partners; in this case, that is exactly what happened. These interventions are carried out without the consent of the social partners, and therefore, from this point of view, they also mean the total defeat of all the promises that were once here today. I wonder where now all those who once protested when there was no reduction in living standards are now experiencing a decline in living standards from day to day. The only paradigm we can understand from this is that people are understood only as dairy cows, but this is not a democratic state, and in a democratic country, the prosperity of all has led to the creation of common policies. In a given case, on behalf of the budget implementation, it also intervenes in the pockets of the weakest. Without the consent of the social partners, in a way that is incorrigible and irreparable for them. People have the right to know, and you do. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Anybody else want to explain their voice? He's more interested. Opening login option, please log in. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. Nevertheless, I think we should have a little bit more understanding, a little more social sense, of people who may have sought work in neighbouring countries in recent years. I think that before we accept any amendment to this law, we could show goodwill, send a delegation to neighbouring Austria and conclude any agreement with the neighbouring Republic. This would be the minimum standard expected by the people who have sought for their future, also because of social pressures, to work across our borders. You haven't shown any understanding of these people. I hope none of you will be in the coming months or years looking for work in a neighbouring country. I would also expect fellow Members of Parliament from Maribor, Haloz and all others from Pomurje to stop voting against such a law because you vote against your people who are the most good people who have sought this job across borders and who have shown some sense of confidence that they have done so. Look, this is very unfair. As such, the Constitutional Court does not require you to accept this first novel on 24 September or by the end of September, and that you can do any other activity before that. Even if we send a delegation to neighbouring Austria for some kind of negotiation, I think this would be the first step. I believe that, like me, at least at first reading, you will stop this matter and discuss how to proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u301	Thank you so much for saying that. I've been in the middle of a dilemma about whether or not to stop at such a provocation of SDS, because I just really don't understand the level of their explanation. This thing about minimum wage, it's about 20 euros to go down. So, 12 minimum wages go down or I don't know, we can also go down 2,000 euros if we take 100 years into account. I mean, that really doesn't make any sense. It has been well explained that it is 1.5 euros around, and it is still an indexation that I do not understand as a surgeon, but it is not at all what you say for 20 euros – for 12 months. Then say it with me. Everyone knows it's a month's pay. It's a purely marketing scam and a low level of communication. Otherwise, I will support the law, because it is more about eliminating some anomalies than the previous government. It is a matter of coordination with the SPIZ, of coordination with the Labour Relations Act. As far as cross-border workers are concerned, dialogue will also have to be sought further because the previous government has failed to resolve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Can I have your attention, please? An explanation of vote, Mr Brane Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u303	Good-bye! Otherwise, I was new to the parliamentary benches, and I sometimes had the opportunity to see how the debate in the National Assembly took place when the National Assembly actually debated and tried to discuss at some level. But O.K., people change, you change, and the debate adjusts. But I would say that today we had this marriage at first reading, and what I listened to, because I'm not an expert in this area, I thought it was relatively good. She may have been kind of sharp, populism, but there were a lot of things to think about. They were justified – some arguments, some were unfounded. And it was a first reading, and I believe, given that the Ministry's representative was here all the time, that she was also involved in the debate, that they would be able to answer a lot of questions. There may have been some anomalies to be corrected, but it is certainly not that the minimum wage will be reduced at monthly level by 20 euros. That didn't happen. When it's said that it's going to go down by 20, not a minimum wage, but let's say it's at the annual level. That wasn't there. Let's be honest, let's just say it the way it is. But once again, I would say, look, just as I was positively surprised at the first part of the debate, when we talked on Friday about the liquidation of the Bank of Probank, when there was a good debate between the Governor and one member of the opposition, including the positions, I was kind of satisfied with the way the debate took place in the first reading and I don't understand this populism and then this crisis, which then comes. I will support this marriage at first reading, and secondly, we will continue to talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, is there still a desire to explain your voice? More. Here you go. Check-in is on. Marijan Pojbič, Marko Pogačnik and Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will vote against this law because I am convinced that it is antisocial, as I have already said today, that there will be double-taxed residents working in Austria and Italy. Because I come from the Municipality of Pesnica, Kungota and Šentilj, which is bound to the Austrian border and is more than 30% of our citizens and citizens employed in Austria, but not because they want to work in Austria, but because Slovenia has not given them the opportunity or the opportunity to be employed in this country. This is what I think is very important and crucial right now. Those people who do not want to be the burden of the Slovenian state, who have sought work in Austria and Italy, would now be taxed twice! If that's fair, if that's fair, then I have to say I don't know what country I live in. The second thing, many times today or ten times already stated very clearly, Mr Vizjak has very clearly broken down why there will be a net reduction in the minimum wage. He has very clearly broken it down and I ask you nicely how can some debaters think that this is not true, that the law does not bring this about. The law actually brings and will hurt all the groups in this country. It is very important and this government coalition has always said that you will do everything to make the country more social than it has ever been. And you're doing the opposite. That's what I said before. Please don't do one like I said before, but you're doing something completely different. We are reducing rights for our citizens and citizens and for those who have a minimum wage of 40,000, the net minimum wage is reduced; even if for one euro, 5 euros, 10 euros or 20 euros. This is the truth that you cannot avoid, and this is the true truth, and it is right for the Slovenian nation to know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Once again, I ask you nicely, loud chatter does not belong in the hall if anyone discusses it. The next one is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u307	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I personally assess that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration, so I will not personally support it. There are many reasons, but above all it is disturbing that this is a unilateral intervention in wages, in fact, we could say that this is a hidden tax invented by the government of Alenka Bratušek, which at first looks so innocent, and then we can see that the family budgets are likely to be reduced, on average, annually by more than 600 euros. It continues, I would say, the burden of the economy, the burden of taxpayers. Above all, I find it disturbing for this government to actually increase income for those who do not work, but it reduces income for those who work. I think that this is very wrong and that the budget in this way and the country will not be able to save. I think we have a good experience with the government of Janez Janša, who was the government of dialogue, she has worked with all the social partners, but for the government of Alenka Bratušek we could say that it is a monologue government, a government of double criteria and a government of indiscretion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u308	Thank you very much. And Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u309	Thank you for your word. I also had no intention of speaking in explanation, but the discussions and explanations were such that I had to come forward and protest against some statements. I don't feel like the kind of person who lies in the National Assembly and makes a demagogy like some people have said before me. Later explanations also made on the other hand have made it clear that certain measures, which have been so substantiated and announced by the Government and the President of the Government, are actually being implemented. So the minimum wage is going down. To talk about whether it decreases by just one euro and that much per month or by more or less, I think that when we come to this level, I am really worried about the debates in the National Assembly. Because next time it's going to happen that someone is going to take away 50 euros, we're going to say, because it doesn't matter, it wasn't agreed, it's a minimum for someone. I wouldn't want to land on that level. This way to talk about the problems that are detected in the Slovenian space and to underestimate every euro that someone misses in their own, in some ways the final account, and almost amusing it by some, I worry. I'd like you to seriously consider whether this marriage is so good that we can support it. While all of them, both the Government and some of your Members, have acknowledged that this is a unilateral intervention and that it is not in line with what you have committed and what you have also said publicly and publicly. That is why I will not support this law absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik has yet to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u311	I must say, I've waited a long time, but of course the interpretation of what we've been looking at today was completely wrong. [[...]] It is necessary to say that I will support the law, it is not good in its entirety, it will be corrected, normally, which is why it is also the first debate, and so we have presented ourselves in a general presentation. It must be said that what you are saying will fall by 20 at the annual level is of course not true. You don't know what you're saying. Please read the law. It is said that automatic coordination is being eliminated and the possibility of coordination remains, only being transferred to the framework of the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget. Mr. Visjak, I caught you on what you always say is not working. You have to tell the truth, or you have to go back to seeing these things. I hope you replicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u312	No, he won't replicate because I won't give him my word. I hope that he will not abuse the procedural proposal, just as you have abused the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u313	Madam Vice-President, I propose that Mr Potočnik apologizes because he has deceived and spoken false. I summarized my claims that the minimum wage for a taxable person who has a minimum wage and does not have children or other benefits will be reduced by about 20 euros, and I added later that at the annual level. But you have now said that this is possible, but you may not if the government decides not to do so. Yes, unless otherwise provided for in the law on the implementation of the budget. Why, Sir Potočnik, would the Government intervene in this right and automatic coordination if it were not intended to stop coordination in the years ahead and in the years ahead? And she has already said that because she has included these revenues in the budget documents for the next two years. So who is deceiving, Mr. Potočnik? [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I'm wondering who and that's why I expect you to apologize. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u314	Thank you very much. The procedural proposal was clear. If Mr. Potočnik wants to do this, he will do it, otherwise he is not in my power. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Tanko. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Many accusations were made in these explanations. If I listened to those who accused the opposition, I would feel that today we are accepting tax reliefs on income, not tax burden, so you fought for it and accused us on this side when we are talking about accepting burdens. Madam President, I propose that we suspend the meeting in 20 minutes to provide us with a magnetogram of the statements of the President of the Government, who was quoted here, to provide us with a magnetogram of the statement of the Secretary of State, who is in the National Assembly, when we have considered this law, and then to see if these are the facts that my fellow Members have been talking about, are right or are these claims that are fabricated. On the other hand, the plasma of accusations that we are lying, that they are lying, that they are telling the truth, and that I propose that before we conclude our discussions or with explanations of vote, we vote to obtain material and if it is necessary for the President of the National Assembly to convene a meeting of the leaders of the groups of Members. This is the only way to clear up the situation that you brought us into by participating in this meeting of the National Assembly and to find out what the facts are and what is what is actually populism, which is actually an accusation without a basis, what is actually a lie. I do not want us to go from this meeting of the National Assembly, from this day on with the burden of liars, nor do my colleagues go with the burden of populism, nor do my colleagues, and therefore I propose that these things be clarified first to get to the facts. However, in the event that such unreasonable situations continue, it will also be necessary for the honourable President of the National Assembly to prepare a discussion with his fellow Members, the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Frange, who teach us goat prayers here, on the subject where we are definitely reducing income or reducing income by raising income. We'd better do it before anything goes on. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u316	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. However, the Rules of Procedure allow me to suspend the meeting if there is a need to obtain a false opinion or position. It is a magnetogram, of course it is a confirmation of the words spoken by one party or another. Considering he's a mag. Vizjak – I suppose – when he was explaining his voice, reading a magnetogram, I believe that was true. The magnetogram was clear. I will not interrupt this meeting alone because of this procedural proposal. We still have, I think, one explanation for the vote or no more on that list, but there is a chance that anyone else will apply for a vote if they want to. We're continuing our session. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u317	Thank you very much. I suggest that the meeting be suspended, again, because these charges, which have come from one side to the other, must be cleared up. This is not possible by reason of the vote, it is not possible in a different way than to obtain relevant materials that cannot be obtained by each Member at this time. I suggest you do it. It makes no sense that for ten or twenty minutes of interruption to be accepted, twenty minutes, I suggest leaving these traces of suspicions, false accusations, and then suffering these burdens further at this meeting or at the next meeting of the National Assembly. There is nothing here that goes beyond anything, the President of the Government's magnetogram doesn't have everyone, so I would check the Secretary of State's statement, not even the other Members' statements here, so let's gather these things and see what's really worth and what's not. In doing so, I would like to point out that the approach taken by the coalition when it proposes some bad themes, and these are actually bad themes when it comes to citizens, and those who did not have to take it, on the other hand, take the burden from those who do not have to take the burden, let's say in the rehabilitation of both banks, to measure these things with the same vats. We take such measures when, on the one hand, we protect privileged groups and, on the other hand, we take social measures, we oppose them, that is clear. But in order to clarify these matters, so that there will be no ill will, there will be no broken relations, I suggest that the meeting be suspended and that at the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups at the President of the National Assembly, we examine this matter and agree on a follow-up to the meeting today and beyond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u318	I ask you, Mr Tanko, to explain your procedural reason. I said that for a reason to get a magnetogram, I'm not going to interrupt the session that there was a text that was read by the mag. Visjak, probably a magnetogram of what the President said yesterday, and there's no reason that we don't believe this magnetogram, which just didn't go for the president of the government. I believe he was really and properly read. Just a moment, Mr. Tanko. A lot of charges have been made. I believe that many things here are also a matter of individual culture, not just the provisions that are in our rules of procedure. Once again, I propose that we calm the situation and proceed with the meeting. But I will adjourn the session if you request a call from the College of the President of the National Assembly, not a magnetogram. Once again, however, I call on all of us to calm our passions, to continue the meeting, to have no reason not to believe in Minister Viszak and to try to resolve this case in a second place. Mr. Frangež, a moment, Mr. Frangež, just a moment. Mr. Möderndorfer has the floor. I think he wanted a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u319	Dear Vice-President, there is a Member of the Visionary, not the Minister. But what's important. Look, Mr Tanko knows the rules of procedure and knows exactly what he can and can do here today. All the procedures – what he wants – have already been used during the debate. As far as magnetograms are concerned, we all have computers from the National Assembly, and we can read these magnetograms all the time, and we don't need to print anything special to make vacations. Otherwise, you have a paid professional job that can carry this all the time if you want. The third, which is more important, is that, Madam Vice-President, he has already used the procedure twice, and I ask you kindly – otherwise, the purpose is good, but I have a feeling that somehow you can't deal with Mr Tank because you don't know if it will be too hard. Come on, please, take it all the way without these interruptions. What Mr Tanko is proposing about college, I promise you that I will launch this into college without making any reference, because what we are looking at today has become unbearable and I am really still ashamed of what is going on here. But, so I ask you, that we will have a consultation for some printing, please, at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly! Well, that's already a bit of an abject and funny! We know exactly when and what we are doing; and you know that too, Vice-President, so I appreciate that you will make all your efforts to continue and conclude this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer, don't worry. I will react as I think the rules of procedure are right. This time I decided that the reason for the suspension of the sitting was not justified. I would like to reiterate that he is a magician. The Vizjak read everything as it really was, that we would still have the opportunity to clear it elsewhere and that we would now peacefully conclude and continue this meeting. No, not this time, Mr. Visac. Mr. Tanko, please. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Well, if it is so difficult to determine 20 minutes for what I have proposed, I suggest you give 40 minutes for consultation in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much. Before or before the vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u322	Wait a minute, wait a minute. This is, of course, a proposal that Mr Tanko made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I must follow it and will also be able to do so for a moment?Oh, my God! [[...]] I know the rules of procedure, Mr Han, and I know we can do this just before the decision is made. Before that, we have to make all the explanations of vote and, of course, I am asking all Members and Members whether anyone else would like to discuss it. Mr Frangež, I am now giving you the opportunity to make a procedural proposal, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u323	If my previous debate and, I admit, the inappropriate reaction to the party's loud interventions has contributed to these procedural complications, I regret that and I apologize to Mr Visiak and to all the affected for the harsh words I have set out in my explanation of vote. I sincerely hope that this can be one humble step towards moving from a dead point and moving on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u324	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. I'm asking again, Mr. Tanko. Your procedural proposal remains the same, do you require 40 minutes of rest? Just a minute. I ask first of all, before we make this motion of procedure, whether anyone else would like to explain their vote. Mr. Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u325	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u326	Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u327	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. We in the Slovenian People's Party do not really agree with such a meeting or that things are already going too far. We think we should close the meeting. We have given our opinion as regards the vote, and all that we are doing now, I do not think we are in favour of Members. This is how I predict the obstruction of the Slovenian People's Party at this moment. Of course, we can't take part in this, I'll say, non-productive session as it is at this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u328	Thank you very much. I am sorry that you have announced obstruction, but the matter is proceeding in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are just the way it is, and I am obliged to take it into account as a guide in this session. Anyone else have a wish to explain their voice? No, no, no. We have concluded with explanations of vote and have decided to give Mr Tank a 40-minute recess. We'll pick it up at 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u329	Dear Members and Members! Let's get back to work. Given that the meeting was suspended on a proposal from the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, I ask if he wishes to present the Group's position after its interruption. Mr. Tanko, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u330	Thank you very much. During this time of interruption, the Group of Members held a consultation and also reviewed all the materials, materials that we requested to explain the allegations made by Members in the National Assembly and also by the Secretary of State and yesterday by the President of the Government. Yesterday, Mr Han specifically asked the President of the Government about unilateral interventions in minimum wages and, in this explanation, said that the Social Democrats explicitly opposed these unilateral interventions. Ms Bratušek said that the Positive Slovenia also objected. I quote: "Positive Slovenia also opposes any unilateral intervention in minimum wages. Let's make this clear from this place. And this is also one of the measures in which there is talk, I will say, just like that, through the media, without any pre-negotiations, arrangements and so on." The law introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure, the Income Act, is a law that is not in line with the social partners and which is in total contravention of this verbal communication between the leader of the second largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly and the President of the Government. Both parties are constitutional parties to the coalition. The Government's explanation of the Income Act states that "under the assumption that the debtor applies only general relief, the income of the minimum wage of EUR 9 000 403 or EUR 784 per year will be higher than the income of EUR 20 per year for 2013. Thus, all these statements, accusations that members of the Slovenian Democratic Party do not tell the truth that their facts, their claims, are not true that the accusations of lying do not stand. They're not standing! All those you've said or not read the law or you're making a big mistake because of populism. The two largest constitutional parties of the coalition are the parties to Positive Slovenia, the party of the President of the Government, and the party of the Social Democrats. Mr. Han asked the President of the Government about this, which she expressly denied, by the fact that the law was already in the legislative process I ask who is lying? Who is speaking the untruth, and what is the purpose of this untruth, its own, being accused of the opposite? It's top-of-the-line manipulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-24-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u331	Thank you. I note that we have exhausted the possibility of explaining our vote, so we are moving on to a vote. We will vote on the following proposal: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the proposal for a law will be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Your Honor! In view of the fact that the Committee on Finance has yet to meet today, and given the fact that we still have a vote on agenda item 1, these are questions raised by Members and Members, in accordance with Article 86, paragraph 2, I will postpone the vote on agenda item 1 to Thursday, 26. 9. 2013, in the framework of the votes. We will vote on the issues after the votes cast on all the other points already envisaged for the vote on Thursday. That's how I'm closing the deal for today. I am adjourning the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m., and at the same time I inform the members and members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the 67th urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance will begin in 10 minutes in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Thank you and good night.
