ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Renata Brunskole, Mrs Marija Plevčak, mag. Melita Župevc, Mrs Mateja Pučnik, Mr Dragutin Mate, Mr Jožef Kunič, mag. Matthew Tonin by 12 noon, Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Franz Pukšič by 12 noon and Mr Samo Bevk by 14:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on construction products within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Andrei Kert, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Proposal for a Construction Products Act repealing the existing Construction Products Act 2000. The law now in force was prepared 13 years ago. Since then, the legal framework has changed so wide, and Slovenia has, of course, become a full member of the EU and in 2011 the EU legal framework on construction products has also been changed by a new regulation. The proposal for a law thus constitutes an adaptation of Slovenian legislation in the field of the placing of construction products on the market to the requirements of the European acquis, which is a regulation which I have mentioned earlier. The proposal also includes experience in the application of the existing law and measures such as better legislation and removal of administrative barriers. The proposal for a law in the first part governs the establishment of requirements for construction products for which there are no harmonised European technical specifications. Compared to the current law, the procedure for issuing the instrument of conformity is simplified as the manufacturer has less restrictions on the choice of technical specifications representing the state of the technique. An additional benefit for the manufacturer is also the possibility that under certain conditions the instrument of conformity for the product does not need to be issued. In the second part, the proposal covers areas to be regulated by Member States at national level on the basis of the requirements of the Regulation. The new Regulation lays down the conditions for placing on the market those construction products which are subject to harmonised European requirements. The publication of Slovenian standards and the use of Slovenian language in compliance documents is regulated. The procedure for determining the authorities involved as a third party in the assessment and verification of the characteristics of construction products is also laid down. This law also lays down the powers to notify those bodies to the European Commission and the Member States. The control section lays down market surveillance and criminal sanctions authorities, of course, in transitional provisions, and also regulates the conditions for construction products placed on the market in accordance with the old law. I suggest you adopt the law in question. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for the presentation of the law. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the president of the committee of Mrs Alenka Pavlič to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Good morning! The Committee on the Economy is at its 10th session 3. 9. 2013 dealt with the above-mentioned proposal for a law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which, in addition to its general comments, made specific comments to the individual articles, namely Articles 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19 and 21 of the draft law. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposal of the law. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the Parliamentary Groups Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National List and DeSUS, on Articles 2 and 3, for a new Article 3a and Articles 5, 7, 8, 14 and 15 of the proposal. In an additional explanation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the proposer had approached the regulation of legal matter in a specific way by combining content which was different in legal nature. On the one hand, the proposal for a law constitutes an implementing law relating to the implementation of Regulation 305/2011/EU and, on the other hand, constitutes a national regulation governing the placing on the market of construction products and their accessibility to the labour market which is not covered by the Regulation. The representative of the service further pointed out that the comments to Articles 13 and 14 had not been taken into account. As regards the latter, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology provided more detailed explanations and presented the reasons why the Ministry does not consider that the provisions of Articles 13 and 14 are necessary. The discussion raised once again the issue of the service's comment on Articles 13 and 14, in which the representative of the service provided some clarifications. Following the discussion, the Committee considered and adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 3 of the PS, SD, DL and DeSUS MPs for a new 3. A Article 5, 7, 8, 14 and 15. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you for presenting the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The new law on construction products brings national legislation into line with the European acquis, in particular Regulation 305/2011/EU. This part follows the harmonisation of the national laws of the Member States, with a view to ensuring one of the essential freedoms of the European Union's single market, is the free movement of goods. The novelty of the proposed law is the introduction of a mandatory declaration of characteristics for products with a harmonised standard replacing the previous declaration of conformity. This declaration of characteristics to be issued by manufacturers will, in addition to other information, indicate the declared characteristics of the product, allowing designers, designers, as well as all end-users, to compare the characteristics of the products with each other according to the intended purpose and scope of use and to assess the primaryity of the products according to the intended use. At the same time, the law is more exact when it comes to delimiting powers between different inspection services. The market surveillance of construction products will indeed be the responsibility of the market inspectorate, which will be a truly competent inspection of chemicals for the supervision of the hazardous chemicals sector. For the above reasons, we will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! According to the explanation for the proposed Construction Products Act, the Government or the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has drafted a new law primarily to repeal the European Construction Products Directive of 1988, which has been transposed into Slovenian legislation by the current Construction Products Act. Although the current law has been governing the placing on the market of construction products since Slovenia was not yet a member of the European Union. The European Directive governing this area was repealed in 2011 by a new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and, as it is directly applicable, also justify the adoption of a new national regulation in this field. In addition to the requirements dealt with in the proposal for a law relating to a European regulation, it also brings some simplifications and updates with regard to the law in force. If it is possible to believe the assurance of the applicant, this is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed law contains clear provisions which will enable economic operators to better meet the requirements for construction products and make it easier for the supervisory authorities to control the implementation of the law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect both consumer safety and the principle of free movement of goods to be fulfilled in accordance with the new law, while eliminating unnecessary technical barriers to trade, to the greatest extent possible. We will be particularly pleased if we receive from the economy information that the new law contributes to reducing administrative burdens even when the product is made on the site, individually, non-serially or in the event of the restoration of sites of monumental protection. In Slovenia we have had quite some serious complications in the field of construction products so far, so in the Slovenian People's Party we really expect that this law, which, by the way, does not conflict with either the professional public or the policy, is a good example of how we can also be properly regulated in some area. This is why we also support the proposed Construction Products Act in the Slovenian People's Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished secretary with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new Construction Products Act constitutes an adaptation of Slovenian legislation in the field of the placing of construction products on the market to the requirements of the European acquis to be applied from 1 June of this year. In addition, the proposal for a law also governs the national part which includes the establishment of requirements for construction products for which there are no harmonised European technical specifications and the areas within the competence of the Member State itself to regulate them. It must also be said that the new regulation of this area is improving in the context of the experience gained from the implementation of the current law and is also seeking to remove administrative barriers. The law follows the European principle of free movement of goods and reduction of administrative burdens. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are convinced that all the key actors involved in the drafting of the law, with their professional behaviour, with knowledge and experience, have contributed to legislation that will also respect the consumer safety principle in all aspects. The parliamentary group of the democratic party of pensioners of Slovenia will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague! The bill before us is strongly linked to the implementation of the new European Regulation, which has been in force since 1 June 2013 and is trying to simplify the market for construction products. In this area, there have been various legal obligations between the Member States of the European Union so far, and as a result there have been various problems in practice. In order to simplify and facilitate trade in construction products, the common technical language set out in harmonised European standards and assessment documents shall be introduced. In Novi Slovenija, we have repeatedly stressed that we are committed to removing bureaucratic barriers and improving the business environment. These changes brought about by law are thus seen in particular in this light. We will support the bill in New Slovenia, while at the same time we hope that changes will have as much positive impact on the Slovenian economy as possible or on the market for construction products.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you. Ms Alenka Pavlič will present the position of the delegation of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you very much again. The proposal for this law is transposed into Slovenian legislation by the European Construction Products Regulation No 305/2011 laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products. As has already been said, the Regulation is directly applicable from 1 July 2013, but Member States of the European Union at the national level need to regulate certain powers and procedures as required by Regulation 305/2011/EU. In the Republic of Slovenia, the scope of placing construction products on the market so far has been regulated by the Construction Products Act. It provided that the construction product conforms to its intended use and may be placed on the market if it complies with the relevant Slovenian national standards resulting from the adoption of harmonised standards or European technical consent. The law will be updated in the field of marketing of construction products, quality checks and the designation of market surveillance authorities for construction products. The procedure for issuing a less restrictive document in the selection of technical specifications will also be simplified, nor will it be necessary to issue a certificate of conformity of the product for non-serial construction product specially designed for the renovation of sites of protection. Construction product manufacturers can now market their goods under a simplified common European legal framework, using the CE marking to confirm the authenticity of the declared efficiency of the product. The construction sector is extremely important for the European economy, accounting for around 9.5% of GDP and 10% of labour in the European Union. Because of the economic crisis, it is experiencing difficult times and it also needs a transparent and well-functioning internal market, which is also being improved by the proposed law, which is also fully supported by the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! The proposal for a Construction Products Act is linked to the implementation of the new Regulation of the European Union, which is fully applicable from 1 July of this year. The proposal for a law on construction products in the national works regulates the establishment of requirements for construction products for which no European technical specifications are harmonised. It regulates the areas to be regulated by Member States at national level, in particular the notification of the bodies involved in the assessment of products and the identification of market surveillance authorities. The draft law also regulates criminal sanctions and transitional provisions. This proposal repeals the existing Construction Products Act. The main solutions are to regulate the conditions for placing construction products on the market and their market accessibility. If the construction product is covered by harmonised European technical specifications, it must comply with the requirements of Regulation 305/2011 of the European Union. For products not subject to harmonised technical specifications, the law specifies the technical specifications on the basis of which the manufacturer of the construction product determines the characteristics in relation to the essential characteristics relating to the basic requirements for construction works. It lays down the obligation of manufacturers to issue a declaration of the characteristics and indication of the product data, taking into account Regulation 764/2008 of the European Community on mutual recognition for products already lawfully marketed in a Member State. Provisions concerning the establishment of quality infrastructure shall be governed by the procedure for determining the authorities involved as a third party in the process of assessing and monitoring the acceptability of characteristics. And the method of monitoring the permanent fulfilment of the requirements and the withdrawal of the designation shall be laid down by the authority responsible for declaring the bodies of the European Commission and the Member States. In the national non-harmonised area, it governs the establishment of a body for Slovenian technical consent and the procedure for the award of Slovenian technical consent. Given that this is a technical law that summarizes European guidelines, we will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Srečko Meh will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal for a law on construction products is probably a law in which we would like to see many laws and laws similar to that of all of us agreeing to support it. This law will replace the existing law and bring Slovenian legislation in line with the requirements of the European Regulation, taking into account the principles of free movement of goods in the internal market of the European Union and also on the basis of the 12-year experience of the current law. The proposal for a law regulates a number of areas to be regulated at national level by the Member States on the basis of the requirements of the Regulation, namely the identification of the body responsible for notifying the bodies for assessing and verifying the inadmissibility of properties. The law also regulates the procedure for determining the authorities, for assessing and verifying unacceptable properties. In Directive 89 and so on, replaced by Regulation 305, and again so on, the area of market surveillance of construction products has not been regulated. In the old construction product law, the construction inspectorate is listed as the authority responsible for the control of construction products on the market. Today, or by this law, the transfer of power is given over the construction and production of a competent market inspectorate. However, the control of hazardous substances in construction products shall be exercised by an inspectorate responsible for chemicals. The draft law also prescribes legal or criminal sanctions. As it brings the law of simplification to manufacturers, since, at the level of the European Community and also at the national level, instead of the current declaration, it introduces a declaration of characteristics, a declaration of characteristics instead of the current declaration of conformity. In doing so, the manufacturer has less restrictions on the choice of technical specifications representing the state of the art. The scope of the implementation of the Slovenian technical consensus has often proved to be a major burden for small businesses. Here the proposal follows European experience and principles in the implementation of European technical consensus. A technical specification has already been laid down at the level of the internal market of the European Community since 2006. The review of the situation in the Member States also showed that the submission of a request for national technical consent in the vast majority of countries is the decision of the manufacturer. Thus, the draft law now provides for the issue of a Slovenian technical agreement at the request of the manufacturer. The law regulates the method of determining the body for Slovenian technical consent and the procedure for issuing Slovenian technical consents, which do not substantially change compared to the current procedure. As a result of all this and simplification, the Members of the Social Democrats Group will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, 26 September 2013, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the general administrative procedure law, the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Renati Zatler, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u20	Nicely greeted. Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The amendment to the General Administrative Procedure Act complements Article 65 of the current law and adds the amendments to Articles 23 and 69, resulting from editorial harmonisation of the applicable law with Article 65. A new procedural right of the party or body to submit or accept an oral application shall be established by supplementing it by completing the application form. In the law in force, the submission of an application directly to the authority shall be possible by completing a written application and submitting an oral application and the authority shall write a record thereof. Upon application of the amendment, the party shall be able to submit an application by oral disclosure of its request to the official by filling out the application form and offering it to the party for signature instead of the minutes with the assistance of the party providing the relevant information. Such a procedure, which requires no other than a clear indication of the request, cooperation with the official and signature, is already established in the acquisition of different documents such as identity cards, passports and the like. Therefore, these positive experiences should be extended to other areas where a formal relationship between the authority and the party is established and where different forms are required. We believe that, to a certain extent, legal change will also positively contribute to the formal adequacy of applications. Often unclear and incomprehensible rules, and consequently very complex forms, lead to the failure of the parties to submit their full applications, which therefore means that they are further invited by the Authority and that the whole administrative procedure is extended needlessly. In this way, we believe that when a party submits a personal application and also provides appropriate assistance to the administrative authority in meeting the form, the procedure will be much shorter than it has been so far. The government expects the authorities to adapt to the new process obligations by accepting oral applications by filling in electronicly supported forms signed by the party by means of a signed table or by other means with technical assistance to avoid paper business. We also estimate that there will still be forms where necessary, but they will be simpler. The proposed amendment also seeks to reduce the formal obstacles to the start of the administrative procedure itself, since the party will be able to transfer part of the formality regarding the completion of the application forms to the authority. The change follows the already valid mission of administration, as well as the friendly service for citizens or other users of administrative services, so we propose that the esteemed assembly support the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you, too. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body and I give the floor to Vice-President Kristina Valenčič to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 13th meeting, on 4 September 2013, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national regulation. The representative of the applicant, the State Secretary, stated in the supplementary explanation of the articles that the proposed amendment establishes a new procedural right of the party or the obligation of the administrative authority to take an oral role by filling out the form instead of the party and then by signing it confirms the reality of the data. In doing so, they want to ensure a more efficient administrative procedure, both in the interest of the Authority and of the parties, as the new procedural right of the party allows a faster start of the administrative procedure and consequently a shorter deadline for the issue of the decision. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the comments made on Articles 2 and 4, which were also summarised below in the form of an amendment to the Committee. The representative of the State Council said in her presentation of the written opinion of the State Council Commission on State Procedure that the Commission supports the bill, however, that the members of the Commission had expressed their doubts as to whether these obligations could be imposed on public servants by issuing a sub-legislative act. In the debate, the members of the committee suggested that it would be better for the solution to go in the direction of simplifying the forms rather than making the commitment of the body to help meet the prescribed forms. They also expressed their concern about how officials would act in cases where a party would be a foreigner who did not understand the Slovenian language and what tools would be available to the party if its role was rejected due to an unintended or deliberate error of the official person. In addition, the question was raised as to whether a long line of applications would arise if all applications had to be completed by the official, since the parties might no longer want to fill out the forms themselves. In this regard, the Secretary of State replied that the forms would be simplified in the long term, which is also the main objective of the amendment itself. The Committee then adopted its amendment to Article 2, which followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee voted on all articles of the draft law together and adopted them, and therefore the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act be adopted in the text before it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. ............................................ Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you so much for the word and a nice hello to you all! Slovenia is at the turning point of its existence, at the point where the sins of the past need to be cleaned up and committed to a more responsible future. This responsible future will only be achieved by three steps. Firstly, all those who have unjustifiably accumulated their wealth at the expense of others in all these years of our country's existence must be brought before the time of justice. Secondly, state finances shall be cleared of any unnecessary costs. And thirdly, start to create an environment that will be conducive to the economy and be friendly to citizens. For the third step, which is too often forgotten today, we do not need much money, just real legal and sub-legal solutions that will reflect the actual needs of citizens and the economy. The system of bureaucracy and administration is certainly one of those who has experienced great prosperity in these years – not in a positive sense, but in the sense of thousands of forms and a long wait for the decision of the official bodies. Citizens are waiting for decisions on their rights under the law after several weeks and months, and the role of the economy is no different. Public service must be in the service of people and the economy, not that citizens and the economy are in the service of bureaucracy. In the area of removing administrative barriers and excessive red tape, extensive and comprehensive changes are needed, not just cosmetic corrections. The Law on the General Administrative Procedure, which we have before us today, introduces basically one amendment whereby an official will be obliged to assist the party on its wish to comply or even to fulfil the application form. In this way, the roles will be complete, which will also enable a quicker resolution of matters. This should mean that time will be reduced from making a request to issue a decision. We hope that the proposed changes in practice will revive and facilitate formal contact between the official and the party required to initiate the administrative procedure and to issue the administrative act as soon as possible. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposed amendment, while we expect the Ministry to prepare a comprehensive package of proposals in the future to remove administrative barriers and to improve the functioning of the official apparatus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In essence, the bill provides only one major substantive amendment, namely the possibility for the party to decide that its role in the administrative procedure will be performed by an official. Let me begin by stressing that the party will still have the opportunity to perform the role itself after the new one, and that it will also have the option to do so by the official person, of course in the event that the party will provide the data itself or participate in it, without doing so. This, on the other hand, also means the duty of the official to do so. It is perfectly logical, however, for the party to guarantee the completeness and reality of the data by signing this application. In fact, this change does not constitute a novelty in administrative operations, since in simple procedures such a procedure is already a permanent practice, such as driving licences, identity cards, establishment of a company. This procedure has proved to be extremely successful, both by the authorities, as they are not burdened by work on incomplete applications as they are by the parties, as the procedures run extremely quickly and easily. Incomplete applications that involve procedures, since parties should be called upon to make additions, sometimes even more often, are virtually no longer, as the shortcomings are resolved at the outset of the submission of applications. Let me just put it as an example of the establishment of a company. There were sometimes incomplete deposits of over 70%, today or since the establishment of the point I know them not. Of course, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, when reading this proposal, we also asked ourselves how this would affect the work of officials, whether this would entail additional burdens. Initially, however, this case clearly states that this solution saves all work with imperfect roles. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Slovenia, we estimate that the proposal is appropriate and will contribute to shortening administrative procedures. However, we appeal not only to the Ministry, but to every official empowered to manage and decide in administrative proceedings, to take as much account as possible of the deadlines for final decision, i.e. to issue a decision. All too often, it is heard that procedures that should be completed within one or two months continue for several years. And very long administrative procedures affect the rights and benefits of the parties, as decisions have specific consequences for the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! Removing bureaucratic barriers and simplifying procedures are one of the programme objectives of New Slovenia. In the light of the simplification of administrative procedures, we must continue with activities for a more friendly administration, the elimination of unreasonable administrative obstacles, the further introduction of e-government and the simplification of procedures that will make it cheaper to operate and provide better conditions for the economy. In the direction of debirocratisation, clear and effective procedural legislation is very important. A major step towards de-liberation was the amendment to the 2005 General Administrative Procedure Act, which imposed an obligation on the public authorities to obtain the data themselves from official records. This amendment to the General Administrative Procedure Act has helped to reduce, reduce and simplify procedures. Until the amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act introduced by the current novel, we are very reserved in Novi Slovenija for some practical consequences that the implementation of this novel ZUP would undoubtedly have had. We stress that the current legislation allows the parties to make oral submissions to the minutes to the authority which will consider the application. Assistance to customers in the compilation and submission of applications has also been arranged. The Administrative Regulation has arranged for the provision of general information on administrative services, even through a special adviser to assist the parties. In particular, we would like to point out that the completion of the forms of certain applications by officials is already being introduced, but only in simple procedures where the composition of the application is enabled by the software application and support. In particular, applications for the issue of a ID card, passport, application or cancellation of a permanent residence, temporary residence and so on. In these cases, it is simple procedures where the party only signs the application. Therefore, the fulfilment of applications by officials has been successfully carried out for some time. The legalisation of the obligation to fulfil virtually all applications under the terms of the ZUP is, in our opinion, too large and not well thought out a step that will only bring about an extension of procedures instead of simplification. In fact, the fulfilment of certain roles in administrative procedures is complicated, complex, linked to a number of necessary annexes and requires almost specialized knowledge. If we only take the case of applications for environmental permits – it takes a lot of time and knowledge to fulfil such a role. For generally known, long-term procedures in the ADRU, the enforcement of the obligation to comply with the forms by officials would undoubtedly require additional employment or would prolong administrative procedures at the time of existing recruitment. The following are applications submitted by foreigners, such as a temporary residence permit, a work permit and the like. Upon the application of the obligation of officials to fulfil applications, the administrative authority shall, when accepting an application by an EU national, provide an appropriate interpreter, which is virtually impossible, as there are only a few interpreters for some languages in Slovenia. Another major issue is the question of covering the costs for the interpreter, which would burden the budget of the Authority when such an obligation is in effect. We read in the material that there will be no public financial effects by implementing these changes in the administrative procedure. Therefore, we can conclude that the applicant did not make appropriate analysis of the consequences before the law was introduced. In New Slovenia, we also stress that the solutions proposed in the current amendment to the General Administrative Procedure Act are a complete novelty, even from a comparative and legal point of view, since they do not exist in the developed world, for example in Austria, Germany or Finland. These countries have taken many steps towards de-barcation in front of our country, but these novelties, as they are now proposed, have not been legalised. Therefore, Members of the New Slovenia Group are not inclined and will not be supported by the proposed amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Ms Alenka Bikar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members, President, Representative of the Government! In practice, it is often the case that citizens face difficult forms and applications in administrative procedures, which in some cases include even 10 or more pages. It is also often the result of complexity and overemployment that these applications are ultimately flawed and incomplete, and therefore they need to be complemented and the process itself takes longer than it is necessary to do so. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act establishes the obligation of administrative authorities to provide, at the oral request of the parties, for the exercise of a particular right themselves with the form of application required for the initiation of the procedure. In addition to facilitating the process on the party side, the amendment will achieve that applications will be made in a more understandable and complete manner, thus removing obstacles to the formal initiation of the procedure, which is burdened by additional calls for remedying the deficiencies. The positive effect of the novel may also be shown on the part of officials. As they fill out forms for citizens, they will also be able to quickly detect which of the forms and applications should be simplified and with which data they already have themselves and there is no need for them to be specifically included in the forms and applications. Given that around 10 million decisions have been issued in various administrative procedures at the annual level, it is essential that the forms and applications are functional, understandable and simple and that the procedures are quickly completed. However, according to the example of other European countries, there is also a need to introduce as many electronic procedures as possible in the future. In Positive Slovenia we are aware that the novel is only the first small step towards faster and more friendly services for citizens. However, there will be much more to be done. In particular, procedures in public administration need to be de-barred, all unnecessary administrative obstacles removed and the business and legislative environment simplified for the efficient development of the economy. It is also imperative to simplify the roles and forms that are a condition for the initiation of the administrative procedure. The fact is that the public administration must act as a nice and efficient service for citizens and businesses, so we will support the novel, which represents the first step in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u32	Dear President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 16th regular meeting, on 4 July 2013, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act and sent it to the National Assembly with the desire to be dealt with in a reduced procedure, since it would be only a technical less difficult addition to the applicable law, which would facilitate formal contact between the body and the party required to initiate the administrative procedure and issue the administrative act as soon as possible. The proposed amendment of the law should therefore aim at a more efficient administrative procedure, which should also allow for a faster start of the administrative procedure and consequently a shorter time for the issue of the decision or administrative act. The applicant further submits that the introduction of the procedural right of the party to fulfil the application form on the part of the Administrative Service Authority will bring the parties or users of such services closer to it and will at the same time simplify and accelerate the administrative procedure itself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we rightly ask why it is necessary to commit public servants by means of legal provisions to assist the parties, i.e. citizens and citizens or users of public services, in meeting the forms of administrative procedures. Is it not today, when we talk about the use of the term friendly management, that public servants should provide users or customers with all the necessary professional and technical assistance, that is, the fulfilment of the forms themselves? Already in the debate on the Home Committee, we have stressed that the Ministry of Public Administration should ensure as soon as possible the integration of all databases into a single database which would actually allow state authorities to grant certain rights or obligations to beneficiaries without lodging or re-investing applications on the basis of officially obtained data. As you know, we have similar arrangements in the tax procedure. As an example, we have also highlighted certain procedures for the exercise of social protection rights when a certain right is granted to a person, such as the right to a child allowance, scholarships, social assistance, the extension of these rights should take place without automatic application for renewal. This would, on the one hand, reduce the burden of social work centres, reduce the costs of procedures and increase the user satisfaction of public administration services. Perhaps, though, we can expect to arrange for kindness and smile on the faces of public servants as a legal norm. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that most civil servants are already doing their work in a committed, conscientious and professional manner and that they do not need legal aid in fulfilling the role of parties in administrative procedures. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not support and we will not oppose the bill, the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! When the amendment to the Administrative Procedure Act was published among government materials, it is interesting to note that there were no comments by the interested public on the proposal for an amendment, which could be attributed to summer time, but some ministries had comments on this amendment. We have asked ourselves a number of questions in the Group of Social Democrats concerning the proposed amendment. We are aware that the level of functional literacy found in Slovenia is too low and therefore there are often difficulties in meeting the forms. We are also aware that the idea of a user-friendly administration and the removal of administrative barriers is very vivid in Europe. In doing so, we note that this must, however, be in line with the protection of public interest, as the removal of any obstacle is not necessarily positive. We also believe that, however, with greater care, we should think that the situation in different parts of public administration is different. In particular, we considered that it was very difficult to expect how they would be able to carry out this oral application requirement at social work centres. Since this is a particularly sensitive group, we should not allow this to create a narrow throat in fulfilling the applications in these places. The fact is that there is now a positive experience in the implementation of personal documents. However, the question is whether this can also be achieved in those matters related to public calls at the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and elsewhere. However, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service has also drawn us to the fact that there is no large-scale written bill. A comparative examination is such a dig. For example, Finland, which has been offered as an example, does not even know the possibility of someone making a mere oral application. We are, therefore, at least otherwise presented in the examination of the law, the only country that will legislate this obligation for an official to take over the fulfilment of the forms. Let us draw attention to the fact that, while the applicant is responsible for the accuracy and correctness of the data entered, it is true that some considerations have been removed, at least someone is responsible for the submitted applications, but we point out the difficulties in applying for the European funds that were met by agricultural promoters and how many applications have been incorrectly met. There are many advantages to the matter, but there are also traps. And we thought it would be good to gradually introduce this requirement, not just for all ministries, for all institutions, for all work at once. Support for this proposal has only been given to that supplement, which has delayed all the work of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for one year. As we say, we will support the proposal, but we have a number of concerns, including those that are not in the same position as those who put up oral roles and those who invest them electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again. Surely, there is no political party in the Slovenian space who would not have a commitment in its programme to debirocratise the state administration, with the aim of enabling the economy and citizens to provide friendly, responsive, fast and efficient services. We have also stated in the Coalition Treaty that our common objective is modern public administration. This is a thin, mutilated unnecessary administrative work that burdens both the parties and the institutions themselves. There are few cases of entrepreneurs who, on the way to implementing the business idea in Slovenia, encounter a number of administrative obstacles and, as a result, decide to apply it in one of the neighbouring countries, where such obstacles are significantly lower and the business environment is more encouraging and friendly. Not only this one, but also the previous governments have carried out decisively and successfully simplification projects. There is also a web portal Stopbicrocija.si that collects proposals and initiatives to remove administrative barriers. And one of the proposals is to establish a public administration without a form. The first step is the solution brought by today's amendment to the General Administrative Procedure Act. The amendment or addition to the applicable law relates to the determination of the obligation of the official responsible for the acceptance of applications to complete the application form itself at the request of the party. This facilitates the process on the part of the party, and aims to be more complete and understandable, which is why the parties are expected to get to the desired right more quickly. The average Slovenian often deals with filling out forms; we submit applications for children's allowance, scholarships, apply taxes, register a company, want to obtain a building permit, organize a public event. And we often feel that we are not partial to these forms. This leads to ill will, dissatisfaction with public administration, state and politics. This change is a small step on the way to operating a state without applications, without paper. We already know and successfully implement such procedures in Slovenia. There will certainly be new steps and measures to follow. The Ministry of the Interior is also planning to renew the acquisition of construction permits, upgrade the system I know, establish a single contact point for foreigners, renovate the flat-rate system, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and an automatic renewal of applications for social and family benefits is planned. Although it is only a pebble in the mosaic, but it is not insignificant, it will be in the direction of creating an encouraging and more friendly environment for our citizens, we hope and we want it to remove a number of obstacles also for Slovenian entrepreneurs who are at the beginning of the business idea. That is why we will support the amendment of the law in the National Gazette. We prefer knowledge and experience to formalism.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 26 September 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. Moving on to 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. Point of the agenda is the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering in the National Assembly, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Business, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the wills of the President of the Republic, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local wills and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Government of the Republic of Slovenia. All draft laws have been tabled by a group of six Members and Members, with the first signed by Richard Branisle, with the exception of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by a group of seven Members and Members, with the first signed by Richard Branisle. All draft laws are held at the 13th session, 4. 9. In 2013, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government was considered as a parent working body, with the exception of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members, which was considered at its 14th meeting, on 4 September 2013, by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Since the Committee and the Commission have not adopted the articles of the draft laws after the discussion, the other consideration of the draft laws at the meetings of the two working bodies has been completed. In accordance with the Commission's interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. At the 63rd meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, held on 13 September 2013, it was agreed that the presentations of the positions of the members of the groups on all draft laws should be carried out jointly. We're moving on to the position statement. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. My greeting goes to everyone in the hall. For a year we have been dealing with a package of laws relating to the tightening of the conditions for candidateing and performing political or state functions. At first there were seven novels in the package. One was later removed. A lot of debates, coordination was on the subject. And now we are at the final stage, only to find that the legislative process for all these proposals is over. It appears that Mr. Musculu was frightened by his muscles during parliamentary vacations. The proponents also saw that the solutions written on the door to the nose without an in-depth evaluation and analysis were not good. Despite the amendments tabled to remedy the unconstitutional solution, they could not avoid the issue of constitutional dispute, which was clearly and loudly stated on the working bodies, including by the Legislative and Legal Service. As a legislative body, however, we cannot afford to adopt, not only illegal but also unconstitutional solutions. All of this means that in the DeSUS Group we reject or do not support the objectives and objectives pursued by the whole package. On the contrary, the idea itself is fully acceptable to us, so we supported the conclusions on the working bodies in order to approach the drafting of the relevant legislation as soon as possible and to include a uniform and systematic regulation of the conditions for the nomination and termination of the mandate of all officials who will not represent the institutions of legal concerns, and to prepare the ethical code of Members as soon as possible. The obligation of the competent authorities to draw up a legislative text in the direction of regulation, as included in this package of laws, is perfectly clear by the decision taken. In the DeSUS Group, we expect this commitment to be implemented as soon as possible and as soon as possible. The position presented in this proposal is identical to that of all others who make up a package of legislation, so we will not repeat our views on the other points of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you for your introduction. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the New Slovenia Group have not already supported the new functional laws proposed by members of the National List, and we have taken the same position on the laws in the second reading, when the Labour Committees – these are the Mandate-voluntary Commission and the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government – have rejected the proposed amendments and additions to all six laws. The idea of proposing that political space should be cleaned up and that access to the highest public functions of persons with criminal backgrounds should be prevented. However, in order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to find a way consistent with the Constitution and the Constitution of the rights guaranteed. Restricting passive electoral law, as it is supposed to be introduced by the proposed novels of functional laws, is not in accordance with our constitutional order, in our firm conviction. In fact, electoral rights are constitutionally guaranteed the right of everyone under the same conditions. Prescribing additional conditions for the exercise of passive electoral law means limiting it, which already raises questions about the constitutionality of each law. As the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out in its opinion, electoral rights are fundamental to human rights. For each limitation of this right, a proportionality test and a legitimacy test must be carried out in advance. Or, in other words, this fundamental right can only be restricted in cases where it is at the same time an intervention in the rights of others and where such an intervention allows for a constitution as a hierarchically highest legal act. The Constitution allows the possibility of restricting passive electoral rights only to Members, but not to other officials. Therefore, the proposed limitation of passive electoral rights for candidates for the President of the State, members of the Government, mayors and municipal councilors is not consistent with the Constitution only after the legitimacy test has been carried out. It is therefore only in the election of Members that a constitutional basis is given for the possible limitation of passive electoral rights, but any action should take into account the proportionality test. With regard to this test, the Constitutional Court has determined in one of its decisions that solutions must also be based on comparatively legal arrangements and acceptable in modern and democratic societies. The Constitutional Court also refers to the Code of Good Practice in Election Cases adopted by the Venice Commission. As one of the reasons for the seizure of electoral rights, he also provides for a criminal conviction for worse crimes. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, as well as the novelties of the remaining functional laws, have significantly exceeded these criteria, since as a restrictive condition they have only established the suspicion that a crime has been committed, thus reaching into the constitutional principle of alleged innocence. The proposed amendments and additions to the functional laws also state as limiting factors the conditional conviction, the conviction of a financial penalty or the conviction of a notice where the legal consequences of a conviction cannot arise under the applicable criminal law. So these proposed proportionality test solutions do not stop. In New Slovenia we are convinced that cleaning of the political space is necessary, but it must be done in a manner consistent with the Constitution and, above all, in a manner comparable to other European legal arrangements. The right way to achieve this objective is not to adopt new and new restrictive rules, but only ethical standards must be sufficient for these purposes. They must be taken care of in the first place by political parties themselves, who will propose only those candidates who are not burdened by criminal history in individual functions. In this regard, let us stress that both legal theory experts and civil society have taken part in the public presentation of opinions on such a form of cleansing of political space. In New Slovenia, we also support the establishment and adoption of an ethical code of Members, which will define general guidelines for the action of Members, which will follow the principle of impartiality, integrity, transparency, diligence, honesty, responsibility and respect for the reputation of the National Assembly in their work and decision-making. In a similar way, the conduct of Members is already regulated for Members of the European Parliament. Of course, the ethical code itself will not ensure the ethical conduct of Members unless these ethical standards are incorporated and taken into account in their work as the basis for decision-making processes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you for your presentation. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of Positive Slovenia on the entire package of six laws that we have not supported, but we have an opinion on them. From the first reading of the package of legislation ahead of us, to today, it has been a good six months. At that time, a broad debate was held on the appropriateness of the proposed solutions, of course with a common and uniform objective; how to amend legislation in order to establish higher ethical and moral criteria and standards for policies. The fact is that not only the situation, but also the deterioration of political culture and the deterioration of fundamental trust, affects the proportion of people who are dissatisfied with the situation and require decisive but thoughtful and principled measures. And in this respect, positive Slovenia's efforts have also gone through, and since the beginning of this mandate it has been striving to find a solution that has answered some of the open questions raised in our society. The purpose was therefore good and honest, but in the end it turned out that only a good purpose was sometimes not enough. Nor is it likely that none of the comparable arrangements in Europe lays down such precise provisions as to run for office and terminate their term of office. At the time of the consideration of the proposed novelties, several constitutional concerns were raised by the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service and the professional public regarding the intervention in active and passive electoral law. In this regard, the Constitutional Court has in the past also defined a clear position that an intervention in electoral law is permissible only if it is necessary to protect the rights of others or to protect the public interest, if it is protected by the rights of others and if it is also favoured by a proportionality test. There must also be a procedure for the seizure of voting rights in which constitutional judicial protection must be provided. Another important point concerns the presumption of innocence. The Constitution is also clear on this principle; the accused is innocent until his guilt is established by a conviction. It is also important to be very careful here and to find solutions that will not be contrary to this principle. A number of offences in which the conviction would result in the termination of the mandate of the official were also found to be at issue, and in this connection, the non-compliance with the provisions of the Penal Code, which clearly states that the conditional conviction is a warning sanction and consequently cannot have legal consequences, not as severe as the restriction of electoral law and on the basis of it, of candidature. For example, the Constitutional Court has repealed the provision contained in the Notariat Act. Clearly, there have been a lot of reflections. Although the applicants tried to remove these concerns by means of the amendments they tabled, it quickly turned out that there was less content left in the proposal, and in this regard the Legislative and Legal Service, at the meeting of the parent committee, expressed a number of concerns about mutual non-compliance. Some of the concerns even with the amendments could simply not be fully addressed. As I have already said, a good purpose is not always enough, and we probably do not want this good purpose to end up destroying the Constitutional Court, which would rescind such decisions with certainty. However, we do not accept everything listed in Positive Slovenia as despair and abandonment of this project, but we are convinced that more can be done and what is better so that ethical and moral principles can be enforced, or perhaps not written, or otherwise. It is only necessary to find better and more sophisticated solutions and to arrange them for all functionaries united and in one act. A broad professional debate is needed to find solutions that will be constitutionally and legally sustainable. That is why two decisions were adopted at the ICC and the Committee on the Interior. First, it is proposed that the Government, within the framework of the legislation, develop a uniform and systematic regime for the nomination and termination of the mandate of officials, which will also be constitutionally consistent. Secondly, it is proposed to proceed as soon as possible with the preparation of an ethical code for Members to be drawn up on the basis of a recommendation from Greece. Despite the fact that the proposals for laws that would impose the bans on individuals and the conditions under which an individual's mandate would be terminated have not been adopted, the fact is that everything we can do to ensure integrity, ethics and necessity must be restored. It is not necessary to write this down in the law, however, that the final effect is to raise moral and ethical values and the integrity of individuals. It is not necessarily that these values are imposed from the outside, so on paper, we can achieve them by being aware of our responsibilities and our cultural and ethical beliefs. As I have already said, in Positive Slovenia we will continue to work towards a broader debate on this topic and that the National Assembly, the Government and the profession will work together to find the best solutions that are compatible with the Constitution. The first is the adoption of an ethical code for Members, which is the first step towards doing and changing something in this area and thus restoring the reputation and confidence of citizens and citizens in this house of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Branko Grims, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u44	A very nice welcome to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! That is how things end in an unfavorable way when real problems are faced by people from the wrong end. Indeed, the fact is that in Slovenia there is no confidence in democracy that would allow democracy to function normally. And if there is no trust in institutions – not only does polytology teach it, but it is an experience through history – no country can function normally. Slovenia has been dealing with this for a long time. Regrettably, this is to a large extent also the product of planned action. You will recall that, in the first period following independence, it was systematically placed in zero executive power, Parliament, and was promoted by the President of the State because the President of the State was the one who had an influence on the central media. Later this story changed slightly, especially in recent times. Now it is put to nothing by Parliament, the Government, in one way or another, that it is concerned that it is given to nothing by its failure. But the problem is that the judiciary and various interesting institutions that are not even compared in Europe, as the so-called anti-corruption commission, are on the rise. Why are you doing this? Because they are institutions that are so strongly consumed with some ideology that they represent the full pillar of some absolute authority that Parliament does not need, because if you destroy parliament, if the parties do not act as they should, then you have no control anymore and then it is some Balkan squabble. This will not end with any such change as has been proposed here, at least by deciding on the judicial branch of power, who can and what can and cannot be done with the candidates and so on. That doesn't make any sense. In order for a reputation to return to institutions, you must actually enable people to believe that their voice decides that people have the first and last words, but that, as long as we have a proportional electoral system, will never be. We should go in the direction of the majority electoral system, if there was a strong link between voters in an area, their MPs, and then, of course, everyone would still have a much more sensitive attitude towards their electoral body than is happening now that many people are hiding behind the party. You will remember all the old stories when they catch someone with 2.5 alcohol passes, then the next time they are calmly chosen – there is no problem, even though he was then in violation of an explicit driving ban order, threatening himself, people around me, not to mention any more recent cases. Also voting for new parties, new faces that artificially spread in Slovenia, is a reflection that democracy does not work as it should. In every stable democracy, people first get to know each other very well, probably with what candidate for lower office before they are entrusted with the highest functions in the country. We do this once, once like that, a couple of faces change, although the hard core usually stays there as it was, but sometimes when we have more time to do it. In this case, it is even worse when proposals are made that only fuel demagogy. In this case, I say that, to a large extent, these proposals have also been discoloured, they have been in a sense that does not increase Parliament's reputation at all, and I am sorry that, obviously, something that has been involved in this, some still see as a lever to enhance Parliament's reputation. This Parliament can also adopt 100 laws on the limitation of candidates and ethical codes and the like, but some things will have to change differently and elsewhere in order to enjoy the reputation of the public, as most probably think they should. So what we should have, people should actually believe that their voice is making a decision. The second thing is, people should have a real perspective on what's going on. Today only those who watch the direct transmission of RTV Slovenia have one. There you can see what someone is defending, what someone has said, who has lied in time, and who has not lied, while in most mainstream media reports it is not. Where you saw yesterday – a single central medium has managed so much power that he wrote that 10 years of lying about how compensation will not be erased and that therefore all the suggestions we made were rejected. It was a joke. We were being insulted. Now we are only talking about compensation, but only one central medium, in just one broadcast, has managed so much power that he wrote it – he said, in fact, because it was a radio. Most of the time, it was ignored to the end, because you would see who was lying and who wasn't. And of course, if people are misinformed, they sincerely believe that they are well informed that they know what is going on, but if they are manipulated, such a democracy does not work. And then there's disappointments all over again, and they're screaming for new faces, because there's no telling what's really going on in society. The only thing that people can feel on their own and then look for solutions in some surviving models that haven't happened anywhere in the world, and someone else is even offering them as a solution. The transfer of responsibility for the elections or for anyone who can run and restrict them to the judiciary is nonsense. Firstly, in Slovenia this is already quite comical according to what legendary judicial decisions. Let's say JLA wasn't an enemy army until October 1991. It just reflects some kind of judicial policy. On the other hand, of course, it is when you take the blame for what you do to someone else. No, you have to take responsibility for yourself, each one. The only problem is that all parties and individuals should be aware of this and that, with no restriction, with no rule, no ethical code will be able to change it. This must be done by changing political culture as a whole, but unfortunately the system we have now, especially because of the media space as it is, is virtually impossible for people to gain any fundamental democratic experience at all. Therefore, in Slovenia, transition has never succeeded, so in Slovenia today we talk about sometimes such nonsense as how people will directly manage the whole country in some assemblies. This is what those congregations in a self - administration community used to have and so on. I think it's very serious in the media and that this is some solution for the country, as if living, I don't know, apart from the rest of the world. This will not be solved. It will be very important to look very seriously at which systems in Slovenia do not work as they should, and then look also at those solutions that some may not like to hear about. In this case, I am sure that the majority of this House is very reluctant to hear about the majority electoral system, because each individual with his own programme, with his own personality, should go before the electorate and seek support. But not hide behind the customer, but then it works a little bit less like a raffle sometimes, of course, except for that distribution across the constituencies where this raffle becomes a little more predictable. But it's about a person hiding behind a client. And then, because this individual can bring this party around, it happens that someone comes to Parliament who doesn't actually deserve it. But this is also a reflection of what I said earlier – voting for new faces because it is not waiting for a person to prove himself at a lower level before he is entrusted with one of the higher functions, which would be the only normal and also normal in all countries with stable democracy. There, of course, it is also not normal for people to come to a house of distractions and so on, as was the case in Slovenia. There it is known to be a private space protected by the Constitution, which is untouchable. There is also no use of children for accounting with politics or the like, which is unfortunately the case in Slovenia. These are all the strangest things that our system doesn't work, and people are getting sicker and just don't want to follow any more of what's going on, and that's the worst thing that can happen. Because then, in fact, democracy can no longer work. As a result, the first and fundamental question is how to increase trust in the institutions of the system and, above all, how to exercise accountability at all levels. When it came to MPs and Members, in particular, when it came to the SDS, when it came to the majority electoral system, we also proposed the possibility of recalling them. But all I'm talking about would require constitutional intervention. And now I'm referring the question to all of you if it's true will [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Sixty votes. [[...]] Without this crucial change and a better future for this country, unfortunately, there will be no future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Majda Potrat, who will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! We have before us an incomplete package of laws dealing with the central issue set and the exercise of active and passive electoral rights. This is a difficult constitutional and formal legal substance for which the Legislative and Legal Service has made a number of comments, and these comments by the Legal and Legislative Service were the basis for considering that the package of laws is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, the fact that I mentioned in the introduction that this package is no longer complete because it did not have the opportunity to continue the Law on the State Council at first reading. This is the basis, i.e. equal treatment of all officials in the same manner and under the same conditions, deprived and Social Democrats no longer intended to deal intensively with the resolution of detailed provisions that would require amendments, so we did not table amendments. We believe that such a decision as the two committees have taken to ensure that, within the framework of legislation, the Government regulates in a uniform, systematic and constitutional manner the conditions for the nomination and termination of the term of office – there is another important fact to which we are landing the Social Democrats. The question of the executive branch of the Authority, which has sufficient professional support, is that it is preparing in-depth legislative proposals that have appropriate analyses to ensure that solutions are appropriate. We do not deny this, the proposaler wanted to ensure integrity by introducing laws, restoring people's confidence in the rule of law and the rule of law, the authorities and the executive branch, the justice system and politics. Only the way in which he intended to achieve this objective is constitutionally and legally controversial. That is why we cannot support this fragile package. Allow me, however, to go on to what we as Members and Members are particularly committed to and to deal more with only this law that governed the elections of the National Assembly. If we are looking at what the legal basis for what they impose on Members and Members is, then we should find out that we have good legal arrangements and that Members and Members must follow the Law on Members, that is to say that they regulate the position and work of Members, that they speak about the irreconcilability of functions and our obligations, that we have the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, that sets out measures and methods for strengthening integrity and transparency, and for preventing corruption and the prevention and elimination of conflicts of interest, and that we have the applicable Penal Code, which, in addition to the provisions on corruption, on violations in the field of elections, on the abuse of official office or official rights, on the issue of official secrecy and on the like, prohibits also appeals, slander, offensive accusations, enforcement and the like, and we have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which sometimes provides us with powerless rules of conduct at meetings, both in plenary and in plenary. So, the legal framework is in place. This was also noted by our research sector in a comparative review when it took place in the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. It has already been said that the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption is in fact a central law which, if we read it carefully, gives us sufficient theoretical information on how Members and Members should act in their work. Therefore, the Anti-Corruption Commission meeting with MEPs and Members will also be welcomed. I hear we've got a meeting like this in the fall, and one thing is, as far as I can remember, it's already been done. Let me draw your attention to something else. Others also mentioned the role of political parties. For the Social Democrats, it is considered that the Congress has adopted provisions which in fact require the parties to prevent people who do not comply with the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act from performing their functions. First of all, it is on the individual under our Statute to ensure, by means of a declaration signed by him, that his conduct so far has not been the case for which the authorities of the party should later act against him. So, it's on an individual. We think the core is on the customer. And if it is on the party, we are surprised that we also have in this House established political parties who have placed people on their list and that they are not in legal proceedings, that they have already been convicted, have not taken into account. Thus, confidence in politics among people could be strengthened, but they could also help themselves. I also refer to a public presentation of opinions where Dr. Igličar said as follows: "Should not this content and some other aspects be introduced into the ethical code of conduct of Members first, of course, accompanied by an appropriate existence of a commission or a court of honour, which would judge it, could also give advice and give warnings, and after four years would find out whether it worked or not, and then decide whether to transpose it into law, if of course the code did not apply, would not work to a sufficient extent. In fact, I am convinced of this idea by what is happening in Europe. By the end of 2012, 13 parliaments of the countries which are members of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe had already adopted ethical codes of conduct for Members, and in 2012 the Code of Conduct for Members of the European Parliament also entered into force." This is also a recommendation adopted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. At local level, the code of conduct for elected officials provides for a body as referred to by Dr. Iglicar, an honorary judgment that would determine whether or not the conduct has always been appropriate. Let me take a closer look at a document called the Republic of Slovenia Report. This report was adopted by Greece; this is the fourth round of evaluation. The report was adopted in October 2012. However, we were also invited by representatives of the parliamentary parties to consult with the evaluation group in April this year. Well, and I must say that this evaluation group also imposes or recommends the adoption of an ethical code. This has already been said, but what I think needs to be added is that the conclusion in this report is that Slovenia has a well-developed legal framework, and it stresses in particular the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. It also considers the KPK to be an appropriate body. Perhaps it would be easier for some to attend this meeting – not all parliamentary parties were there. We have not been able to support and support the conclusion of both working bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you, too. The next word is Mr Richard Braniselj, who will present the position of the Group of the People's List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you, President. Good-bye! The Civil Code regrets that the package of legislation has been rejected. Despite the fact that we have accompanied this package in the first reading and have found that it is pursuing the goals that I would like to achieve, I regret to say that even if the will we are talking about was there, I think there was no courage or unwillingness here. At its first reading, the National Assembly adopted the conclusion that the amendments to the laws were suitable for further consideration, with the exception of the amendment of the Law on the State Council. Later, a public presentation of the opinions was called upon, where we received certain responses, certain positions of the professional public. In the Civil Gazette, we then drafted amendments, amended the law, so that we made sure that there was no more evidence of unconstitutionality. The biggest stumbling block or concerns were the provision that an official who is in criminal proceedings and is charged with a legal indictment loses his mandate or has no opportunity to run. Then we fixed it, we stepped back, and we removed it from the criteria. The limitation of passive electoral rights has been linked to criminal proceedings. In criminal proceedings, a person is always found solely because he has violated the rights of another person. If she violated them on purpose, it was so much worse. So she violated them because she wanted them and wanted them, and, of course, I wonder whether such a person is worthy of the trust of electorates and voters or citizens and citizens. An honest citizen, a politician, an official has nothing to fear if these marriage novels were adopted. There's nothing to be afraid of. And also criminal proceedings – i.e., the legal conviction in criminal proceedings is light years away, especially the sentence imposed, which leads to these exclusionary conditions that we wanted to introduce. In this country, there are people who have been contacted to meet the conditions that they cannot only run 14.5% of the cases or only a good half of those who should not run. This is said, despite these criteria, half of all convicted persons would still be able to run and perform their functions in local and state policy. Of course, the question arises whether these provisions interfere with or interfere with the law of criminal law. The Penal Code lays down when certain consequences also have the effect of penalties imposed. Part of these solutions are withdrawn, but as we say, we are talking about lex specialis, which can also affect and bring other solutions, as is the case in the criminal code. This does not undermine the criminal law concept of this country. It was also clear that the intervention was in the current term. In this country we know the wrong retroactivity which is not prohibited and which is permitted if it is demonstrated by public interest. And, of course, the public interest is that the country is governed by policies that are not burdened by criminal proceedings and by convictions and in which confidence in the public is appropriate. Public surveys, published at the time of the adoption of this legislation and conducted by the newspaper Delo, have shown that 93% of people believe that those politicians who are legally convicted should withdraw from politics. Legally convicted of any crime. And a similar proportion, which is said to be over 90%, the survey showed that the respondents also firmly responded to the question whether they agree with the proposal that persons convicted of a crime against public duty should be legally convicted of a public duty on a permanent or temporary basis of banning an action for a parliamentary, mayoral or any other public function. Also here was the public response of respondents over 90%. And what is most unconsistent and what we keep reminding us of, these standards would only partially approach the standards that are written for other citizens of this country. The Constitutional Court Act speaks of a constitutional judge losing his mandate, his job, his office if he is sentenced to prison, no matter what form. The Anti-Corruption Commission, paragraph 22, shall lose the term of office of the President and of the Vice-Commission if the President or Deputy is sentenced to a prison sentence of any amount. Loss of tenure! In the case of judges, the automatic loss of the term of office, if convicted of a criminal offence by imprisonment of six months or more and if that penalty is lower, shall then be notified to the National Assembly, which may find that, on conviction of a criminal offence, that judge is unworthy of the administration of the judicial service and loses his mandate at the discretion of the National Assembly. Not to mention the whole range of professions in the military, he can't even run, he loses rank, he's untrustworthy. In a notary, in a lawyer's office. We have cases in the Labour Relations Act, where there is only enough suspicion of a criminal offence when it comes to an extraordinary termination of the labour relationship. People lose their jobs, people lose their bread, the chance to survive the suspicion of criminal service. The Company Act – how easily we have laid down the conditions that someone cannot engage in economic activity, cannot buy one share, cannot buy a share in a company, cannot open espionage and cannot set up a company. Just because we said it wasn't trustworthy, we don't ask ourselves that we're actually making it impossible for a certain group of people to engage in entrepreneurial activities and that we can't do that. I can't say I don't support it. We're talking about being inconsistent here. The policy of taking care of the economic sector, which is capable of taking care of itself and talking about private property, private contributions, and when we talk about public funds when we talk about public funds management, these criteria are superfluous. And we don't have the courage to bring these criteria into law. We have cases, let's say in police law, where the consequences are not only bound to the fact that you can't even apply for a job in the police department. Certain consequences relate only to the service of the offence but not to the crime. There's a police problem because of the violation! In the Law on the Organisation and Work of the Police, which we adopted yesterday, we would call it that we have easily attached the criteria that bind the various legal consequences of the conviction to a legal indictment which we have repeatedly dropped out of this, even to a decision on the offence against public order and peace. There we had no doubts that we had established these standards, and I think it would be necessary to introduce these standards into politics as well. For those decision makers in this policy who are responsible for this country and, of course, the local community. Inequality – The State Council fell out of this package of laws at first reading. The Council of State is not one of the most important decision makers in this country. I can say that with certainty. It's not. And secondly, it is the only institution, the only officials who have in law adopted by a two-thirds majority, written that their function is honorable, unprofessional and unpaid. Honorable! And then such an institution doesn't need an ethical code, and it doesn't need criteria, because it already says in the law that this function is honorable. And one more thing. We have offered the mayor's resignation as an opportunity that the majority of citizens, who are not satisfied with the mayor, have the opportunity to resolve things not with protests, with granite dice and demonstrations, but in a way that is simple, which is civilised, called "recall referendum", "representative recall", which is also known by other countries and where voters remove elected officials by popular vote. Like they put him up, they're putting him down. This was not supported either, I'm afraid. As a matter of fact, we didn't have the courage. And when we speak easily, what is unconstitutional and where the problem of unconstitutionality is, and where the question of unconstitutionality is, you know, in every law that we adopt here, there is a possibility that a good lawyer may have doubts about unconstitutionality. If there's no courage, then we won't be able to make any laws. However, if this doubt about unconstitutionality or the excuse for unconstitutionality is the reason why we do not accept something, it is regrettable that we are quick to turn our back on this convenient excuse. As a matter of fact, the story's not over. There's legislation coming, on the other hand. Because we weren't able to write it down ourselves, the government will prepare it for us. Here comes an ethical code that will in itself bring nothing if we do not write down who also identifies unethical conduct, and this conclusion must be enforced. I hope that we will successfully close this story and create the conditions for confidence in politics in this country to be higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you, too. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, again. In this hall many times are diagnosed as to what all the signs of our country are. This is a lack of confidence in banks, the judiciary, health, the economy and politics alone. Every being knows that feelings of understanding, respect, and trust are fundamental feelings for building any relationship, whether in family life, business world or politics. Without these basic feelings, it is almost impossible to expect a positive relationship to develop. We need a sense of trust at every step of our operation. We can't marry someone we don't trust, we can't make a business deal without trust, and there's nothing else in politics. At the first reading of the mentioned package of laws, I stressed that the obvious state has led to the fact that people no longer want to develop their potential, their talents, because their success would sooner or later raise doubts as to whether they are fair or not, that they have created an climate, that everyone in this society is corrupt, that no one can achieve anything in a fair way anymore and that everything is just a game of uncles from behind. Slovenian policy has lost the confidence of citizens. That is why the aim of the applicants who wanted to achieve it with a proposal for a package of legislation is short-term Mr Musculo, a legitimate one, correct and necessary. And we all certainly agree in this Chamber that there is probably no group of people in this country like us, Members and Members, who would prefer to see this goal realized, that this trust between politics and citizens should be restored. It must be borne in mind that we are not all alike, that even in politics there are always honest people who are in fact aware of the mission of politics to regulate public affairs for the benefit of all. However, the path of renewed trust proposed by the proponents is wrong. Trust does not establish a letter on paper, trust is a long process, the result of honest and honest work. We will not gain confidence with citizens by such or other laws, not by denying ourselves, nor by indirectly acknowledging that we are all the same because we are not. We will gain trust only through sincere action for the common good, integration, without sharing in yours and ours, and above all by example in fulfilling the legal and social standards and high ethical performance. Thus today, Mr Musculo's legislative package, as expected, is experiencing an infamous end, not because of its content relating to restoring public confidence in the rule of law, the institutions of power and politics in general, but because of its form and manner in which it was presented. It has clearly proved that popularism and the public are not above the legal or constitutional order in our country. I am aware that all of us still have a lot of work to do to restore people's confidence in politics, but not with populism and demagogism, but with the hard work that brings results into people's everyday lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the Republic's budgets for 2013 and 2014, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u52	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present briefly the proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of budgets for 2013 and 2014 and the reasons for the adoption of the law. The existing legal arrangements for the financing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia laid down by the Public Finance Act and the annual Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the current and following year do not provide the full legal basis for the conclusion and recording of transactions for the temporary transfer of debt securities of the Republic of Slovenia. This arrangement is consequently a narrower range of instruments and financing that are available to the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of financing the state budget in such a difficult period in debt capital markets. The proposed amendment to the law is intended to provide a legal basis for temporary transfer of debt securities transactions. It is also worth noting that the proposal for a law does not increase the maximum extent of the commitment to implement this year's budget and next year's budget. Temporary transfers of debt securities shall be permitted for two purposes, for the purpose of financing the state budget with the so-called repositories of transactions and for the purpose of temporarily transferring debt securities to a bank or a savings bank, where measures are taken to strengthen the stability of banks in accordance with the law governing the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The conclusion of such transactions for the financing of the State budget is intended to extend the set of financial instruments which allow for greater flexibility in view of the current situation in debt securities markets and the optimization of debt costs, in particular in terms of achieving the lowest possible interest rate. However, the purpose of temporary transfers of debt securities to a bank or a savings facility is to support measures taken to strengthen the stability of banks if proven necessary and in accordance with the existing law governing such measures. At the same time, the legal nature of the temporary transfer transactions is complemented by the existing provisions of the law regarding the taking into account such issuances of debt securities within the scope of the debt of each financial year in which such transactions are concluded. To the extent of the debt, only the purchases received from such transactions and not the amount of debt securities issued and transferred for the duration of the transaction shall be considered. Your Honor! In accordance with all the above, we propose to the National Assembly to approve the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014, both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you, too. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 65th urgent session, on 18. 9. 2013 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of the additional working material, the Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service on 17. 9. as well as the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of 18. 9. 2013 which supports the proposal of the law. The presentation of the Ministry of Finance – it follows that the established regulation of the law on the implementation of budgets does not provide the full basis for concluding and recording transactions for the temporary transfer of debt securities of the Republic of Slovenia, which consequently strengthens the selection of available financing instruments available to the State. As the latter legislation, the text submitted provides for greater flexibility in the implementation of additional state financing operations and consequently the appropriate liquidity of the budget. The text allows the transfer of debt securities specifically for two purposes, both for the financing of the state budget in the so-called repositories of transactions and exceptionally for the purpose of temporary transfer of debt securities to a bank or a savings bank that would receive measures in accordance with the law on the provision of bank creditworthiness. The debate mainly raised the issue of not giving too much power to the Minister and not opening the door to additional debt. In particular, fear has gone in this direction, but after the discussion, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill together and, of course, adopted them in the discussion below and concluded the discussion on the basis of Article 128. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia should be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. The first position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with co-workers! Slovenia can practically no longer be in debt on the usual route, but if it is, at an extremely high price, we are deeply, deeply concerned in New Slovenia. We cannot get money in international financial markets. The current ruling coalition is unable to agree on austerity measures for the benefit of its citizens, especially for austerity measures at systemic level. For many years, however, more than we have created, additional large financial resources are needed for the rehabilitation of the banking system. Budget resources and our taxpayers will be burdened by high budgetary expenditure to force the liquidation of two private banks, Probanks and Factor Banks. For this reason, the coalition urgently needs additional, fresh money in addition to the already planned budget expenditure. The Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 sets the ceiling for both budgetary years, for 2013 for four billion euros and for 2014 for three billion euros. The new Law on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets has been prepared by the Government for reasons that would allow for additional indebtedness in a way that would not be considered public debt. The new law provides for a new instrument, a so-called repo deal. The advantage of this instrument is, in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that a lower interest rate could be achieved due to the shorter maturity of debt securities. The highest amount of debt on the basis of the so-called repositories of transactions, as proposed today, may amount to as much as one billion euros under the Act on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. In New Slovenia, we find it controversial that these debt securities issued are not considered to be public debt in the country or in other words; in fact, the repo is a transaction of debt for as much as an additional billion euros, which will not be shown in the budget as a public debt in the year when the loan will be given, but only in the following financial years and will be subject to the budgets of the following years, probably in the course of the next term of the National Assembly. We do not support the novels of this law in New Slovenia. I believe that the Government is once again looking for ways to continue overexpenditures or over-expenditures to bring debt to future governments and, most problematicly, to a number of future generations. Each government, including the present, must take responsibility for its actions and decisions. Members of the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 will not support, more precisely, we will vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Aloj Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The discussions on the implementation of the budget are based on the budgetary procedure. Most often, the law under consideration is understood as a technical part of the budget. It is true, however, that the so-called technical document over the years, especially under the terms of the crisis, has become thicker and more and more prominent substantive issues and solutions that fall elsewhere. The proposed novel is clear on the content. And the effort to link the same thing for any reason and to say it with other words is, in fact, superfluous. First of all, it is the expansion of the range of funding instruments that the Republic of Slovenia can use to finance the state budget. These are so-called repo transactions with financial instruments, specifically debt securities, bonds. The State shall act as one of the parties to the contract. In contractual relations, of course, the relationship between the benefits and the extent of the obligations to which the parties agree is always sought. The more favourable position of the creditor, i.e. the buyer of the financial instrument, derives from ownership rights on bonds that are subject to transfer or insurance. On the other hand, the State can count on a more favourable interest rate than it would otherwise have achieved through the issuance of so-called "normal, normal" bonds. Keyly, the practice of reposing transactions also speaks of this, in fact, what will be the relationship between the purchase – the money that the country will receive – and the extent of the insurance provided. It is also not possible to overlook some of the bad experiences we have with repo business, not so much in the fiscal area where they are now being introduced, but throughout the transition period. At the same time, as it is not insignificant, demand, especially in recent times, has declined considerably for state bonds from so-called developing countries and among these developing countries, Slovenia is also considered a financial market. Well, the situation isn't pink from that point of view. The second content part of the novel refers to a legal basis which allows for the execution of acts supporting measures adopted in accordance with the law governing the strengthening of the stability of banks. However, we discussed this quite a bit on Friday at an extraordinary session. The Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u60	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! It is significant for this law that we accept it as an emergency. Why is he in such a hurry all of a sudden? Can we still be in charge of international markets? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the leadership of Alenka Bratušek must give us this information. It's an additional assignment. Why do we need an extra assignment? How much do we owe so far, and how much money do we have to pay back? What are our monthly meals like? Are we gonna make it? What was the financial plan for the repayment of debts and interest? Interest is 900 million in 2014. Can we still commit to a real interest rate? These are, of course, the issues arising from this law. This also raises the following question why we are amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. Why don't we settle this in the Public Finance Act, where it's basically all arranged together? Here we are now amending some articles of the Public Finance Act to make confusion even more complete, to make transparency even less visible, to cover even more debts and interest. And now we're doing some transaction based on repo transactions, where it goes roughly, simplifiedly, for two transactions. First we sell the security for the amount of x and at the same time we commit ourselves to buy this amount of x back or resell this paper over a certain period in the future, but probably not at the value of x, but at the value of x plus something, probably that interest. Thus we will again be in debt and pay more for the second sale than for the first sale, probably depending on what kind of business it will be, but given the state of the country, I doubt that the second sale will be cheaper – depending on how we perform. This is essentially this rap deal, which can be very complicated, about rights, flexibility and so on, but it's two sales at the same time. Of course, this means additional debt and additional payments. Today, it has already been said that we owe a little more than 4 billion this year, but then we can still be in debt for another billion 800 for the purpose of carrying out market interventions, for a billion to strengthen the stability of banks. In short, if we put it all together, we're close to 7 billion. Where else are we going with this? And by what time will we be burdened with future generations? When are we going to set up public finances by spending as much as we actually create, what does the budget have? It appears that if the 2014 budget is adopted, we will be able to make up a billion and more deficits. Of course, on paper, because the revenue for the 2014 budget is completely unrealistic, it also includes some revenue that is not yet available today. Yesterday we talked about such a law, an income law, which adds taxation to all people in Slovenia, including those with a minimum wage. And if there is no reality, then there is no future for us to have coordinated public finances. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u62	Nice greetings to all present! The proposed law does not increase, nor does it reduce, the revenue and expenditure of the budget, since this bill only governs the system of procedures for the implementation of the State budget and other elements of the financial operation of the State, municipalities and indirect budgetary users. The proposed amendment to the law does not change the extent of the indebtedness set out in the 2013 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but lays down the legal basis for the country's indebtedness with other financial instruments, and provides for the possibility of temporary transfer of the securities of the Republic of Slovenia to the holding of banks or savings offices, where measures are taken to strengthen the stability of banks. An example of such a financial instrument is the so-called repos transaction, which has been developed and implemented in Europe, both for corporate entities and for state treasures or central banks. Repo is a transaction consisting of two temporary securities sales which are concluded simultaneously, the initial sale and resale of the same or similar securities on a predetermined day in the future and at a pre-arranged price. The repo transaction provides an alternative possibility of financing normal debt in capital markets by issuing a bond or borrowing a loan. The financing shall be provided by buying-in at the initial sale of the debt securities to the seller. The key advantage of repo is to ensure a more favourable legal position for the creditor, i.e. the buyer of a financial instrument that acquires ownership of financial instruments that are subject to transfer or insurance. Due to a stronger legal situation, the buyer or the lender may offer the seller or the borrower a more favourable credit condition. However, following the government's assurances, it would not be possible for repos to be used in the stability measures of banks in the liquidation process, called Factor Banks and Probanks. Subject to this condition and provided that the proposed mode of indebtedness does not jeopardise normal forms of indebtedness, the Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Respectable guardians of the Treasury, esteemed congregation! The aim of the law is to give the Government a legal basis for the conclusion and recording of new financing instruments for the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which allow greater flexibility in view of the current situation in debt securities markets and optimise debt costs, in particular in terms of achieving as low a price as possible. That's nice of you to say. Even better, they said this in one of the business journals where they were brutally specific. Since we can no longer commit ourselves to the normal route of issuing bonds, it is time to commit to the instruments that we can still deal with. The fact that we have a difficult debt also clearly shows the movement of Slovenian bonds on the international financial market, where the expected return is constantly fluctuating near the psychological limit of 7%. And this interest rate won't go down until we do our homework. At the end of May, nine of them were loaded by the European Commission. The deadline wasn't overnight, the deadline was two years, but we need to be aware that delay costs us. It's a little below 7% at the moment. Here, however, the position of public finances is unsustainable and it would be right to do at least part of our homework prematurely. The repo business itself is nothing special, last we heard of it in recent events related to Mercator, where the Unicredit Bank became owner of Mercator right through the rap of business. The representative of Banka Slovenije also claimed that it was a completely normal business. With this law, we limit this kind of business for the purposes of the budget to around a billion euros. Although it appears at first sight that the bonds issued for this purpose are not considered to be a common State debt, this is not the case. The actual debt and the non-issued bond shall be considered for business insurance purposes, as appropriate, as the difference must be made between the debt and the value of the securities with which the debt is secured. By amending the law, we do not raise the extent of the country's indebtedness. I hope that this financial instrument will be used as little as possible, as this will mean that confidence in Slovenia is regained in international financial markets. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014. The explanation of the proposal and the presentation of the proposed amendments to the Home Finance Committee are two important reasons justifying the proposed amendments. The first reason is to provide a full legal basis for the conclusion and recording of transactions for the temporary transfer of debt securities of the Republic of Slovenia, as is the case in Europe of established repositories. This is an already established financing instrument, which represents an alternative funding option, the essence of which is instead of a purchase obligation at a simultaneous repurchase with a time delay. The key advantage of this type of business is that by providing a more favourable legal position to the creditor it enables the seller or by telling the borrower what to do with a more favourable credit condition. The bill, however, introduces another amendment, provides a legal basis for the issue of the Republic of Slovenia's own debt securities and their temporary transfer to the bank in which measures are implemented to strengthen the stability of banks. In return, the Republic of Slovenia shall receive financial insurance in the form of debt securities from the Banks or Custodians' Claims Management Company, which shall be transferred to the State for the duration of the transfer. On the basis of the applicant's explanation, we estimate that there are legitimate reasons for the urgent amendment of the 2013 and 2014 Budget Implementation Act, in particular in terms of cost-optimisation and smooth implementation of measures to strengthen the stability of banks, so we will vote in favour of amendments to the Supplement and this Act in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers! Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a new Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 provides a legal basis for the implementation of acts supporting measures adopted in accordance with the law governing measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The current law on the implementation of budgets does not provide a full basis for concluding and recording transactions for the temporary transfer of debt securities of the Republic of Slovenia, which consequently strengthens the range of available financing instruments available to the State. The proposal for a legal novelty ahead of us is, therefore, expanding this set, thus ensuring greater flexibility in the implementation of additional state funding operations and consequently ensuring adequate budgetary liquidity. The provisions of the draft law thus allow transfers of debt securities specifically for two purposes. The first objective is to finance the state budget in the form of a so-called repositories. Other, exceptional, for the purpose of temporarily transferring the debt securities of the Republic of Slovenia to a bank or storage facility which would receive measures in accordance with the law on ensuring the stability of banks. Taking into account the current situation in debt markets, the proposal therefore constitutes a contribution to additional flexibility to ensure the financing of regular refinancing operations. According to the proposal, the key elements that set out a clear framework for reposing transactions under the introduced legal mechanism at the conclusion of the contract are incorporated into the proposal; the commitment given to the recipient to return securities at the conclusion of the transaction as all the other amounts received as the holder on the basis of the transferred securities within three days of receipt. The proposal also introduces an additional mandate for the Minister to decide on temporary transfers and specifies an additional key element to be fulfilled for the Minister to take a decision for one of the two purposes in the law. This is to finance the state budget. At the same time, the provisions of the law's proposal define the repo transaction as a bonding relationship concluded on the basis of a contract, in contrast to the ordinary issue of bonds, which is a unilateral legal transaction. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group believe that the bill has been proposed to the Government, so that the proposal for a bill does not violate the existing limitation on debt, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 26 September 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the War Invalids Act, the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of four Members and Members of Parliament, with the first signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. As I do not see at this time that the present Chairman of the Supplementary Explanation Committee would be present, we will continue with the representative of the proposal for the Magi Act. Matthew Tonin's introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u70	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, have a good day! I apologize if I may use a slightly sharper word in this debate or if I will explain a little more or if I will have to speak some basics and explain what everyone should practically know about Slovenia's independence in 1991. Let's get started. In 1991, the Yugoslav People's Army attacked Slovenia and 65 people died in this war for Slovenia and 417 were wounded. In this Chamber, I think we all agree that it is the duty of the country to take care of those who have given Slovenia as their own as much as possible — life and some of their own health. In order to repay all these people, among other things, the War Disability Act, adopted in 1995, enabled those who lost their health or health in the war of 1991 to regulate the status of a war invalid or, if civilians were civilians, the status of a civilian disabled person in the war until 1997. It's all good and good. But in Slovenia today we also have some people – these people could most likely count on the fingers of two hands – who have all the medical certificates that have a deteriorating medical condition and many other ill health consequences due to the 1991 war. But since they missed the deadline set in 1997 to settle their disability status, they are no longer allowed to do so. And now I am moving on to our proposal for a law that we Members of New Slovenia have proposed in the amendments to the War Disabled Act. With our proposal to all those affected by the war and to all those who have given their health to Slovenia, we allow the status to be regulated by 2015. We don't put anything in their eyes, they still need medical certificates, and it still needs all the procedure to get that status. This is an extremely small number of people, which makes it inappropriate to comment on financial consequences because these financial consequences are negligiblely small. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm asking you if you're embarrassed in front of these people to seek reasons for rejecting this law. Personally, I would find it extremely embarrassing and distasteful to look for reasons in the sense that they appeared on the committee, that it was too far away from this war because nothing bad and similar happened. These are simply unworthy excuses. Now I'm gonna be a little tough. I hope there will be at least a little conscience on this matter and that you will also read a book about what was going on in 1991. Maybe I'm talking about those slightly younger ones who weren't there in 1991 on their own.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first one has the word "magic." Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! "The State is obliged to take care of the people most responsible for the independence of our country," we have heard a sentence by the proposaler of the amendment of the law. Let's go in one order. The novelty of the law in its basic form means retroactivity which is unacceptable in respect of respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sure you'll agree. I will remind you of the unconstitutional or retroactivity of the ZUJF in the work relating to pensions. As a result, we had to accept the budget rebalancing of the post festivals and correct what the previous government had done in an unconstitutional manner. And now to the content itself, the current law on disabled persons of war has bound the status of a disabled person and the rights arising from this status to his hand. It's a 31-year-old deadline. 12. 1997 The new law, which we are considering today, is intended to reopen the deadline for filing applications or asserting the status of a war invalid from the period of the self-sustaining war, or the deadline that has already elapsed, until 2015. That's the retroactivity. The members of the Territorial Defence, who participated in the defence of our country, could exercise their status in the event that they suffered irreparable health consequences as a result of their military duties. According to the medical profession, this is a period of twenty years and more, it is a problem of the time period and a causal link between illness and war effort or events that are expected to cause health problems. Unlike damage to health as a result of a sustained injury or injury, the disease does not leave visible effects on the surface of the body or visible damage to the internal organs, which could always be detected or demonstrated by appropriate diagnostic methods. For these reasons, we cannot support and support the proposal of the mother labour body in this content in Positive Slovenia. But I will still return to history, my respectable colleague Tonin, or the proponents of this law. As some were to miss the deadline for such or other reasons, a new law with a similar content was introduced into the parliamentary procedure in 2005 which was not unconstitutional. In order to make applications, those applications that have already been submitted but have been submitted after 31. 12. 1997, they are considered to be timely and are being treated. But then eight years ago, respected colleagues and colleagues who were sitting in Novi Slovenije and also in SDS and SLS simply passed this amendment of the law or such a amendment of the law. Eight years ago, 2005. Today, the proposaler comes up with the idea that, after these eight years, he would change his position and introduce a new law. Not only that, it comes with some sharp insights at the expense of the government coalition, how inhuman it is, how it wishes to be burned with conscience, because we will not support the unconstitutional law. Who, my respectable colleagues, do I ask, is embarrassed to seek reasons for rejecting this law? I hope that the reasons why the government coalition will not support the amendment of the law have been sufficiently professionally stated. Still, there is another important fact that does not go so far. Today, to report to the government coalition that it is carefree of people and war events is at least or mildly said immoral. With the ZUJF, the former government of Janez Janša abolished a good range of rights for war invalids and war veterans, not just for the duration of the crisis, which has been permanently abolished. With all due respect, but indeed, with all due respect for all the participants in the war on Slovenia, including those who may not have missed the deadline for recognition of status on their own account, I invite you to present at this meeting a list of these beneficiaries, potential beneficiaries of the status of war invalid. I believe that the government coalition will take this content into consideration and find an appropriate solution or that it will take the substantive issue of open dilemmas very seriously. We don't care, and we must not care, and I believe that in the coming days, Members and Members of Parliament will receive amendments to the War Veterans Act, to the correction of what the ZUJF has done wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u74	Honourable Vice-President, I would like to make a procedural proposal that at the end of the presentation of all these positions you invite the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service to present to all Members the position that has been taken by our Parliamentary Legislative and Legal Service, because it will be possible to see what the Legislative and Legal Service feels about our proposal. And it will be evident and clear that Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš is sadly misleading the Slovenian public.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Since we are in the midst of a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, we will continue with the mag. Mr Tisel will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u76	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Good bye to all of you! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the efforts of members of the Nova Slovenija Party who have tabled a proposal to amend the War Disabled Act, which would allow members of the Territorial Defence and other persons who, in carrying out military duties, suffered irreparable health consequences during the 1991 aggression against the Republic of Slovenia – the deadline for recognition of the status of military war invalid of the self-conquering war has expired 31. 12. 1997 Some of the health procedures affected have not been completed by this date and have not been able to submit a request in time for recognition of the status of a military war invalid and to exercise the rights to which they would be entitled. This is also true of the families of the disabled who were physically affected by the aggression against Slovenia. The legislative and legal service has raised serious concerns and comments that the law cannot be applied back. At the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, the New Slovenia Party proposed an appropriate amendment, so that there was no further dispute on the legal basis. The proposed amendment to the War Disability Act would allow the affected to submit a request for military disabled status by 31 at the latest. 12. 2015 regulate the status and rights of this law. It is true that it has been 22 years since the aggression against Slovenia, but we must also be sensitive and fair to those few people who have sacrificed their health and have not yet been able to enforce their status. It is a small number of people with disabilities and a few relatives after the deaths of disabled persons, who are not financially more burdensome for the country. With this decision, however, Members would show great respect and gratitude for all those victims who have so far remained hidden or who have not been able to exercise their rights. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that the initiators of the amendment of the law on the Committee have been voted on, and we hope that they will be rectified in future shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! The War Disability Act was passed in November 1995. He set a two-year deadline, which is no later than the end of 1997, to apply for the recognition of the status of the rights of a military disabled person or a civil disabled person of war on the basis of a health condition or a worsening of the disease obtained in the course of military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991. According to the motioners of the amendment of the law before us, this deadline was too short, as some members of the Territorial Defence have failed to obtain the necessary documentation in time for the submission of the request. They also believe that certain diseases or their deterioration have not shown up until this two - year period. Social Democrats believe in the sincere purposes of the bill's proposer, and we also believe that all the consequences of the war may not have been established and properly documented by the end of 1997. However, a thorough substantive consideration should be made whether, after 15 years of the deadline for applications for recognition of the status of a war invalid and for 22 years after the end of military aggression, it is indeed possible to say with certainty that certain diseases or their deterioration are the result of military aggression. We believe that it is almost impossible to establish with certainty a direct causal link to the formation and deterioration of a particular disease. And in this, many medical experts attach themselves to us. The draft law was not supported by the competent committee of the Council of State, nor by the Committee of the National Assembly for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its proposal, also considers that it is substantively questionable how, after 22 years of the alleged occurrence of the cause of the disease or the deterioration of the disease, it could demonstrate the causal link between the military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia in 1991 and the deterioration of health. During that period, there were also age-related diseases, diseases and injuries due to other and different activities, lifestyles, and the like. Despite the fact that the drafter has eliminated the nomological irregularities and inconsistencies with the Constitution, which was pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Social Democrats will not be supported by the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on War Disability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Ms Kristina Valenčič will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u80	Colleagues and colleagues! Colleagues and colleagues from Nova Slovenije have submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the War Disabled Act proposing a new deadline within which members of the Territorial Defence, who participated in the independence war for Slovenia, may apply for the status of military disabled persons. In 1995, the Republic of Slovenia adopted the War Disability Act, which entered into force in early 1996. The law lays down a two-year period for the submission of a request for recognition of the status and rights of a military disabled person or a civil disabled person of war on the basis of a disability of health or disease. The current law specifies that a disabled person who, without his guilt, has obtained at least 20 % of the health damage caused by the injury or disease or the deterioration of the disease that he had previously suffered, who cannot be assured that it was caused by these circumstances, but it can be concluded that the war conditions have had a significant impact on the occurrence of the disease. The beneficiaries must therefore prove the causal link between military aggression and health damage, and the law also set a reasonable two-year deadline for the exercise of this right, since otherwise it is very difficult to prove this causal link, if not impossible. Both at the time and at the present time, they assessed that the period was justified for reasons of substance. Also from the information and materials of the Association of Associations of War People with Disabilities of Slovenia there is no indication that this deadline would be disputed or groundless. They note that legislation regulating the protection and legal status of war disabled persons in Slovenia is at a rather high level of development. They caution, however, that it is still not satisfactory to regulate the exercise of the right to treatment of war disabled persons in natural health centres or the provision of money for recovery in health care, the rights and condition of widows after the deaths and deaths of war disabled persons are not adequately regulated. No special protection is provided for older than 65 years of age, such as in Austria and Germany. None of these problems are solved by the bill. As a result of all these facts, the National Gazette supports the opinion of the parent committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party on the Committee, we did not support the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which states that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The proposers have already tabled an appropriate amendment on the Committee, correcting the original text of the law and thereby remedying the shortcomings raised by the Legislative and Legal Service. The War Disability Act was passed in 1995 and was amended several times, and individuals who were not able to regulate the status of a war invalid were still affected within a short period of time. Some beneficiaries failed to submit a status recognition request in due time within a two-year period, as the eligibility procedures lasted too long and were completed only after the expiry of the period. It is also known that the conditions for recognition of disability have changed several times. Therefore, in the SLS Group, we believe that it is appropriate to take time to find a solution for the affected, even though after a good two decades of war for Slovenia. In individual treatment from case to case, because there are few of them to happiness, it can be determined whether there is a causal link between participation in the fight for Slovenia and the disease that led to disability. Members of the SLS Group supported the proposal for a bill on the committee, as we are convinced that all the affected Slovenian veterans who failed to regulate their status certainly deserve a new opportunity. In the Group of Members, we believe that veterans who fought in the war for Slovenia certainly deserve so much attention from the competent ministry that they, together with the proponents, will prepare solutions in the law, which would also be acceptable to the Government, which has given a negative opinion on this bill. We Slovenians were lucky, and in those moments, we were united in defending our homeland. We were able to respond correctly and quickly that the war for Slovenia lasted a short time and that there were no more victims. There have been some ten cases pending, and we are confident that the Ministry has all the information on this. We also tried to draft a similar law a few years ago, and we have already received a negative answer and an explanation that it is not possible for some 37 people to open a law that has already expired. This bill opened up a new opportunity to find a solution. By this debate and by voting on the committee against the decision adopted, we would like to remind the competent ministry again to seek a just solution for all who suffer the consequences of the war. In the SLS Group, we are convinced that it is the responsibility of the country to find an appropriate solution for the people who have been affected after the war on Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak will present the Group's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group proposed to amend the War Disabled Act. It is intended to open the deadline for applications for recognition of rights or disability status for members of the Territorial Defence who participated in the war for Slovenia by the end of 2015. Today, after 22 years of the 10-day war on the independence of our country, it would be possible, on the basis of this proposal, to rediscover the reasons for disability due to physical injury or other health defects and to establish the status of a war invalid and all rights arising from this status. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, we have not decided to support this novel. Although the members of the Territorial Defence have made an outstanding contribution to a free and independent Slovenia, which, of course, we deeply respect in our Group of Members, we consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Even if we consider that the law is inappropriate and inadequate from a legal and systemic point of view, and if we consider any further retroactivity, it is a key problem for the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia in this law that the evidence of the causal link between illness, injury or war effort or events which are intended to result in a health defect in such a long, longer period of more than two decades after the aggression. There are far too many factors in this long period of time that can have a significant impact on our lives, so our assessment makes it impossible to establish a causal link between the military aggression against Slovenia in 1991 and the health damage that is visible today. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia supports the decision of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u86	Colleagues and colleagues! In preparing this law, New Slovenia had genuine sincere intentions, so I thank my colleagues from the Social Democrats for noticing these purposes. We didn't create any cows around this marriage. We tried to drive this law as invisiblely as possible in order to avoid any ideological friction or other unnecessary conflicts. At the board meeting, as well as today, there were numerous indications that the law was not technically assigned, that it was unconstitutional and other things. These are simply incorrect and misleading data, especially if you know that Nova Slovenija has fixed all the things that the Law and Law Service has warned about and aligned with the law. So today no one can tell this law that it is illegal, that it is unconstitutional, and there is one reason why we should vote against it. The ones you've been reading retroactivity to, we don't go back on this law. Those who already have the status of a war invalid will not lose him. With this law, we only allow new people to gain this status. So we can't talk about any retroactivity. Even more so, I find it pointless to think that it is difficult to find a causal link between poor health today and that this is the result of the 1991 war. With these things, Members do not have to be burdened, because if these people are not able to prove this causal link by means of medical certificates, then they will not be entitled to this status at all. So, your fears are completely out of line, because, as I said before, they won't get anything out of sight, but just and only on the basis of medical certificates. Many who have been unable to arrange their status have since the 1990s, but their decision has always been rejected because officials have informed them that the deadline for 1997 has expired. It's about disabled organizations. In New Slovenia we met with them and all disabled organizations said that this was a step in the right direction, but of course other rights and duties should be regulated, but they did not oppose this law or anything like that. On this occasion, I must also thank my colleagues from the SLS, the SDS and also from the Social Democrats for the proper debate. And I now predict that if you reject this law today, New Slovenia will re table it, because we hope that even after today's debate there will be so much sense that we will not look at who the proposer is, that we will not look at any ideological differences, but that we will simply settle this issue and solve it because of the people who are still suffering from the 1991 war. Of course, New Slovenia cannot support this decision, which will be voted today or tomorrow that this law is inappropriate for further consideration. This law would be quite appropriate, since it would allow us to refine and improve another matter in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. Procedural? Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u88	Dear Vice President! At the beginning of the debate, I made a procedural proposal that the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service should come forward and present this position. I would just like your explanation of whether you will comply with my procedural proposal and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service will come to explain this position or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u89	Given that we've all got all the materials on the e-club, I don't think we need to reinterpret it, so I've decided to continue the meeting. We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say, the proposal for amendments and additions by the civil servant, the summary procedure. The draft amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure were tabled by a group of seven Members and Members, first signed by Richard Branisl. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Richard Branisl.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, hello again! On 19 November 2009, the National Assembly adopted a Resolution on Regulatory Activities which imposes on law-makers and the National Assembly certain activities to be carried out in the preparation of the draft act and in the framework of the legislative procedure. This resolution sets out the principles of the quality of the preparation of the proposals. The resolution provides that by preparing and adopting rules in cooperation with the professional and other interested public, the proposer must ensure the clarity, transparency and certainty of the rules, enforce civil participation and carry out an assessment of the consequences of those rules. The resolution on normative activities is an act aimed at a higher level of quality of legislation. Some of the requirements of this resolution, in particular those relating to the assessment of the effects of the regulation and to public participation in the preparatory process, have already been incorporated by the Government into its Rules of Procedure, so that these requirements already exist when it comes to the government procedure. In practice, however, violations continue to occur and the Office of the Centre for Information, Cooperation and Development of Non-Governmental Organisations has developed a counter to the extent to which violations often occur and to what extent resolutions on public consultation have been laid down. The first analysis of the number of violations of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities was published on 13.6.2012 and showed that only around 15% of the proposed rules were in line with the provisions of the resolution and the result did not change significantly. The current government is now showing 154 violations of this resolution. It is very important that it lays down resolutions which stipulate that the proposal for a law should also include an impact assessment in particular areas and that the indications concerning public participation in the drafting of a bill should be referred to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This brings about a new third paragraph of Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, which lists and explains the elements to be included in the proposal for a law, in particular its introduction. In this way, the government will also have to present an assessment of the administrative consequences, environmental consequences, the economy, the social impact assessment, the development planning documents and other consequences of the adoption of the law. The duty to present consequences relates only to the government, while at the same time requiring it to show public participation in the drafting of the bill, the exception is provided only for proposals for laws adopted under the urgent procedure. This is a relatively small change in the Rules of Procedure, which will make it easier for Members and Members to make decisions because they will be able to learn about the consequences in specific areas and thus make decisions on the basis of credible information, not intuitively. And the second thing that is very important for the quality of legislation is public participation. It is right that we are informed of whom the government has cooperated with and consulted in the process of drafting and adopting the bill. With whom has she coordinated, whether the proposal has harmonised, where the points remain uncoordinated – these are extremely valuable information for Members and Members who decide on this particular proposal. This is also an easier way to make decisions. It is therefore a matter of establishing an elementary standard of quality of legislation, which is also established in all models in European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The proposal for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure was considered by the Rules of Procedure Commission as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report, I invite the President of the Commission, Mr Franz Puksic, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure Commission shall be held at its 7th session, 11. 9. The draft amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submitted by a group of Members and Members, signed by Richard Branislje, to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The Commission was then led by my Vice-President and successfully completed this work. On the basis of Article 170 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Commission has examined the proposal, which provides that amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure are to be adopted in a manner which makes sense in the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure for the Adoption of Law. The College of the President of the National Assembly is 15. Seven. 2013 decided that the proposal for a novel should be dealt with in a simplified manner. In addition to the proposal, the members of the Commission also had the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government as input for the meeting. In addition, the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, which was modified on 10 September 2014, were also received within the time limit. At the same time, I should also like to mention that the Rules of Procedure Commission, with the assistance of the services, has prepared the issues of the amendment in question after finding that the solutions to the Resolution on Regulatory Activities have not been adequately covered in our Rules of Procedure. The text thus prepared was then summarised by a group of Members as an eligible proposer and tabled in the amendment process. In a supplementary explanation of the motions submitted by Ambassador Richard Braniselj, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service has identified himself to the amendments tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. In doing so, he touched on the amendment of the proposed additional content of Article 115, paragraph 3. It is a mandatory composition of the introduction of the bill, in which the applicant would also state the other consequences that the adoption of the law will have. First of all, the Head of the Service of God Sterle pointed out the inadequacy of the dictatorship, although it is already included in the current text of the Rules of Procedure, since the adoption of the law has no consequences, except for the possible duty of publication. He then discussed, as could be the result of the whole amendment to Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure, the misrepresentation of this solution within the third paragraph of Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure. He pointed out that the entry of this obligation in the new ninth indent would mean that each applicant should state these other consequences. This was inappropriate in view of the first sentence of paragraph 4 and the purpose of the novel. He further pointed out that this obligation should also be waived in cases of law proposals for which the Government proposes adoption following an urgent procedure. In its consideration of the Commission, he therefore offered the possibility that the proposed substance of the ninth indent of Article 115, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure should be moved to the sixth subparagraph, as its last sentence with a minor editorial correction of the text. Following further explanation by the representative of the Government, State Secretary Mag. Renata Zatler, who also expressed support for the amendment proposal and the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, held a short debate or held a short debate in the Commission in which they supported the proposed amendments, as proposed by the Legislative and Legal Service. The proposed amendment and its possible amendment were also agreed by a representative of the proposal's proposal. The unanimous adoption of our amendment to the amendment to the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code and then to the amendment of the Parliamentary Group itself, and finally the adoption of all the articles, resulted in the drafting by the requested two-thirds majority of the members present of the Commission of the supplementary text of the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is the subject of today's plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion, this is mag. Renata Zatler, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was tabled by a group of Members and Members with Mr Richard Branislje, first signed, and proposes to be adopted by the National Assembly. The resolution on regulatory activities prepared by the Government in 2009 and adopted by the National Assembly also obliges both the Government and the National Assembly to implement the minimum standards, which constitute a tool for adopting better rules. In addition to nomotechnics, procedural aspects of regulatory adoption are also important. Amendments to Article 115 oblige the Government to take further account of its own rules of procedure, and in particular undertake to prepare an appropriate basis for assessing the effects, rules on key stakeholders and, of course, others to which the regulation may affect. Above all, it is important that this change obliges governments to establish a partnership with the public, in particular with those who can make an important contribution to better regulation and to make more appropriate decisions in the National Assembly. The government has also made specific recommendations to the competent authorities on how to proceed in order to comply with the standards and thus to prepare better rules to be transmitted to the National Assembly. In the legislative cycle itself, particular attention should also be paid to the systematic assessment of the effects of the rules already adopted, i.e. the so-called evaluation, verification of whether the objectives pursued have actually been achieved. In this part, we expect to make further efforts at government level to implement this systematic approach in practice as well. As it is said, the Government supports the changes and proposes to be accepted by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the views of the members of the groups and, as a first position, will be presented by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, on its behalf, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u96	Vice President, thank you for your word. Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Rules of Procedure Commission has already dealt with proposals and comments on the Rules of Procedure in this mandate, all in order to ensure that the operation of not only us Members, but also all others affected by this Rules of Procedure, in particular by the professional staff of the National Assembly, the Government, the interested public and probably others, is as effective, clear and specific as possible. These discussions are also the fruit of the proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is before us today. These are minimal changes to the Rules of Procedure, which we will not oppose in the SDS Group because we believe are useful for facilitating the functioning of each government, especially at a time when conditions require more adoption of laws under urgent procedures. Therefore, we have already voted in favour of the proposed amendment by the SDS Members at the meeting of the Commission and also for the full text of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. This will be done by the SDS Members today, as the amendment introduces solutions from the Resolution on normative activities relating to the work of the National Assembly. This means that we agree with the solutions that extend the range of mandatory elements that the proposer, in particular the government, must include in the proposed law. It is our desire, however, that, on an appropriate occasion, the rules of procedure should be made even more life- and-determining, without political overreaction, which fits or does not suit the existing coalition or opposition. That is why, as now, we expect adequate support from the professional services of the National Assembly, in particular the Legal and Legal Service, which has played an important role this time in making the amendment of the Rules of Procedure clear and consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Smodiš will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, good afternoon! We support the proposed amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the Group of Social Democrats. The Resolution on Regulatory Activities, adopted by the Government on a proposal from the National Assembly in November 2009, clearly sets out the objectives of strengthening the rule of law, ensuring legal security, protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, respecting the principle of the division of power at State level and in relation to local self-government and the European Union, ensuring consistent respect for the hierarchy of legal acts, ensuring clarity, transparency, quality and certainty of rules, ensuring the exercise of civil participation, carrying out an assessment of the consequences of regulations, taking into account the efforts of the European Union and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to prepare better rules. The main objective of the resolution is to ensure that the legislation adopted is as legitimate as possible also through the participation of the professional and other public in the process of its adoption and subsequent implementation. It should be noted, however, that a large number of legislation is still being adopted in the National Assembly following an emergency procedure. Legislation is largely unthinkable, as we also see a large number of novelties of laws. The drafter of the laws thus points out that he does not take into account the resolution on normative activities, in particular not in the work which discusses the assessment of the consequences of regulations, particularly financial ones. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore call on the Government, as the drafter of laws in emergency procedures, to do everything possible to ensure that the law is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities, thus providing for some consequences of the adoption of the law and its effects, and this also states. It should also indicate whether it has been able to consult the interested or professional public in a short period of time, since this is what the Commission is looking at in order to prevent corruption. In those cases where the draft law is being prepared or assisted in the preparation of external experts, their names should be given. However, if no one has been consulted in the drafting of the law, this shall also be indicated. But, as we say, in the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome and support the changes made to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u100	Say good-bye again! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall constitute a basic organisational and procedural provision for the ongoing work of the National Assembly, where it shall be used in its work by Members, Professional Services and, of course, by the Government, or by all other qualified law-makers. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure shall bring its provisions into line with the Resolution on Regulatory Activities and Other Rules in the Field of External Policy. Although these are small changes, these should have an important impact on the quality of the rules tabled and adopted, which has already been mentioned here several times. Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure proposes to specify the specific scope of the elements to be included in the proposal for a law on the ratification of an international treaty and also to intervene in the set of elements to be included in the proposal for a law. More specifically, the introduction of the bill should specify the impact assessment and individual areas, administrative consequences, environmental consequences, space and protection aspects, economic consequences, social areas, documents, development plans and other areas. Some parliaments even have special working bodies to do this. The latter will apply in the event that the bill is proposed by the government, while other qualified candidates, Members, the Council of State and at least five thousand voters, will not be required. A new Article 115a is added to the Rules of Procedure, which gives the President of the National Assembly the power to invite the applicant to complete the bill in the event of insufficient composition established by the Rules of Procedure. If the latter does not do so, the proposal for a law shall be deemed not to have been tabled. These amendments, in the opinion of the proposers and our opinion, are intended to improve the quality of the new rules of these regulations, and we will therefore support them in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I am pleased to say that we have recently cleared hundreds of proposals that have been made for changes to the Rules of Procedure, even those that no longer exist, so that we will now be able to update and deal with them quickly in this area, and any changes or amendments to the Rules of Procedure. However, for my understanding, it is unacceptable to make some changes and remain in the drawer for more than ten years. Therefore, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure are supported by the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u102	Madam Vice President, Your Honor and Your Honor. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, it is not a matter of substantive substantive intervention in the Rules of Procedure, as far as our work and the adoption of legislation are concerned. In principle, all law-makers should already act in the manner defined in the amendment and in the text of the bill should also include an assessment of the impact of the law on certain areas and a presentation of public participation in the drafting of the text. All of this already includes a resolution on normative activities adopted four years ago. Unfortunately, this resolution was not respected. With amendments and additions, we also introduce the elements set out in this resolution into the Rules of Procedure. Of course, it is not possible to expect every lawmaker to include all the necessary provisions in the text of the law. Here I am thinking mainly of electives and voters who have the opportunity to make laws. The latter do not have the professional apparatus that the government has, so this duty is imposed on the government, which is, of course, entirely justified. The consistent record of the elements of the bill will certainly make it easier for all Members and Members to work, since we will already have comprehensive information on individual solutions in the basic act. However, the work of the President of the National Assembly, who is the first to assess the completeness of the proposal, will certainly be facilitated, not in a substantive sense, but by including all the necessary elements. The updated proposal also takes into account extreme cases, when it comes to the adoption of laws by emergency procedure, when a solution needs to be evaluated and adopted quickly. In such cases, it would not be justified to ask the Government to strictly follow all elements of the text of the proposal. In the DeSUS Group, we also support solutions relating to the ratification laws of international treaties, as they specify more precisely what such a proposal should include, as defined in the legislation already in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the position will be presented by mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u104	Respected and respected! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was adopted 11 years ago, seem to be undergoing a fourth amendment today. The Rules of Procedure are often referred to as small constitutions and it would be good to stick to them as small constitutions. The rule of law is threatened by unclear and difficult to understand provisions. In the development of our legal system, it is therefore necessary to constantly strive to adopt clear and simple rules, while at the same time legal and other provisions must be kept under constant review in order to determine whether they are appropriate and to avoid excessive regulation, which is also happening to us many times. The quality of democracy is measured by the extent and form of cooperation in decision-making processes and by the effectiveness of control and balance between individual decision-making factors. A living democracy depends on citizens' participation in public debates and political decisions. The proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which are before us today, make it easier to work in some areas and some qualified applicants, so we will support these changes in New Slovenia. Maybe a final thought. If everyone acted in such a way as to support good things regardless of the proposal, there would be fewer problems in the Slovenian political space than it is. We, as you can see, do not look at political proposals, but at the proposal as such. And I would like the government coalition to do the same in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Peter Wilphan will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Vice-President, to the government and to all colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will support the proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as it is a matter of alignment with the solutions set out in the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the amended draft Rules of Procedure have not been tabled. The decision on the Draft Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure will be made tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. This is on the basis of an act on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political liability of the holders of public functions, which were involved in the sale of a system-wide undertaking of wind and vectors and in the subsequent activities concluded with the signature of the letter of intent for the supply of round-duty vehicles — intermediate round-wheel vehicles 8x8 between sea and system technology, 20. 8. 2004, and otherwise for the sake of the suspicion that it was a political arrangement, a non-tempered business which is accompanied by the sum of clientalism and corruption, the purpose of which was not to protect the interests of the State and to achieve the lowest prices in the procurement of the eight-year-olds, and thus to provide more than a hundred million euro worth of business with the eight-year-olds, who were linked to the government's tacra of the party, without having written down, without checking the price and without prior examination of the competitive bids and products (in the future: "parliamentary", 14th EDF, 14th EDF, 15th EDF. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 31 Members and Members submitted a request for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly, with the first-signed Jozet Tank. However, I give the text to Mr Zvonk Černač as a complement to the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u108	All in attendance, all in attendance! On behalf of Group 31 Members and Members, I would like to present a brief request for a parliamentary inquiry, as has already been said, to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions involved in the sale of the company Systematic Technology to Viator & Vector and for further activities concluded with the signing of a letter of intent for the supply of infantry armoured vehicles 8x8 between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and Systematic Technology on 20 August 2004, because of the suspicion that a non-economic transaction was politically negotiated, accompanied by the suspicion of clientism and corruption, because its purpose was not to protect the interests of the country and to achieve the lowest price for the delivery of eight-wheelers, but to provide several hundred million euro worth of business with the eight-track individuals associated with the then ruling party, and in a manner that it was not to achieve the lowest price for the delivery of eight-wheelers, without a price of goods and non-verification. The president further said that we can call this short-term committee Krpan, we can also call it Systemic Technology, but we can also call it Systemic Corruption, because the hunters of this business are still in the present. Individual actors who were active in this so-called systemic corruption at the time, in the looting of state property for private pockets from taxpayers' pockets, are still operating today, operating in similar procedures, none of which have happened to date. Although proceedings have been initiated against some of them, see, they have miraculously ended either by the statute of limitation or by the fact that the prosecutor or the prosecutor has found that there are no elements to the suspicion of crimes, while at the table there have been damage to public funds at levels that do not speak of one, ten, hundred, several thousand euros, but of the injured, which speak of several million or more 10 or 100 million euros. Therefore, the purpose of this parliamentary investigation, which will certainly be extended after it is determined, is to determine whether the main purpose of the then sale of the state-owned company System Technology by the then government was to enable the acquisition of several centrifuges with eight-wheelers of the company Viator & Vector, which was then capitalized by Zdenko Pavček, a member of the then ruling party, without a call for and without a check, a quality centre. Furthermore, it is intended to determine why the valuation of this state-owned company System Technology did not take into account the known facts that the company is being purchased in order to obtain, through the eight-wheel licence it would have obtained from the Austrian company Steyr, without a call for tender and without a price review, a multimillion-dollar eight-wheel deal. Furthermore, it is intended to determine why no invitation to tender has been issued for the delivery of eight-wheelers and, at the time of that time, the Defence Minister Grizold signed a letter of intent with the Systemic Methodology on the supply of eight-wheelers. It is further intended to determine whether the international tender for the purchase of eight-wheeled vehicles, published by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia during the first Janšev government, prevented Zdenek Pavčku from obtaining several hundred million jobs without a call for tender, since the offer by Patrie or Rotis was about 50 million euros lower than the offer of Systematic Technology. Furthermore, the purpose of this investigation is to determine whether, at the time of the sale of Zdenek Pavčku by the Government of Rob, the system technique had concluded contracts with the State or the MOR for the supply of infantry vehicles 6x6 and at what value. It is also intended to determine why Rop's government did not sell directly to Austria's Steyr and then sold it to Zdenek Pavčku and then sold a smaller share, 29 %, to Austria's Steyr and received more from him than it paid for 80 % of the State's share. In particular, he obtained a licence for vehicles 8x8 which, without an invitation to tender on the basis of a letter of intent signed by the then Defence Minister with Viator & Vector, would enable him to do several hundred million transactions with the State. Finally, it is intended to determine whether the parties involved were then ruling parties in the background of the matter. Zdenko Pavček was a candidate for the Ljubljana City Council at that time on the list of then ruling political parties in the country, around him in high positions, both in Viator & Vector and in companies controlled by this company alone or in co-ownership with others, the names of representatives of the then ruling political options. For example, the former mayor of this political option was Vika Potočnik, a member of the Supervisory Board of the company Viator & Vector, where Tatjana Fin, who now appears as a successful CEO of Trimo, was a little less successful co-owner of Probanke or Factor Bank, whose drink will be paid by all taxpayers. These links also include the former Member of Social Democrats and Deputy Mayor of Vika Potočnik Anton Kolarič, who later became Director of Veležnica, a company jointly controlled by Viator & Vector and the Municipality of Ljubljana. We will find in these schemes the current wife of former Member of the Social Democrats and Secretary-General of the Pahor Prime Minister Milan M. Zvikl, who took care of the pioneer business at Viator & Vector and so on. The list would be really long – it would not be enough 15 minutes that I have at my disposal, probably not for 15 hours, to list the entire interest sphere of representatives of left-wing political provenance who, in any event, were concerned about the interests of the companies of the Viator & Vector group and those who should be concerned about public interest were pursuing some other interest. In these schemes we can also find the name Samo Lozej, who is among the founding members of Positive Slovenia and who is in charge of energy with Mayor Jankovic, has recently been appointed the First Supervisor of the Court, which manages all state assets and also the staffing that we have witnessed in recent weeks and months, inadequate staffing, political staffing, whose main purpose is not more effective and better management of state property, but exclusively an interesting division of prey. The reference for this appointment may also have been his role in the purchase of the SIB Bank, as the media reported that at the time, as the chief of staff of the then mayor Vike Potočnik, he initialled the contract for the purchase of the SIB Bank, which was overpaid by the Municipality of Ljubljana via Energy, while the taxpayers covered the losses. In this story, some have earned a gratuitous profit, including Igor Jurij Pogačar, the Pogačar, with whom Katarina Kresal entered into a contract to rent a building for the NPU, which was later called disputed or corrupt, which resulted in Katarina Kresal’s resignation as then minister. And something similar is happening today with Probank, with Factor Bank, with many other stories and works that are talking in some way about the rule of systemic corruption and clienteleism during Jankovic's period, a pardon during the period of the government of Alenka Bratušek. So the common feature of all these stories and all these names, in a way dedicated to names, is that no one in these stories has ever happened. For this reason, one of the purposes of this Commission of Inquiry is to establish the political responsibility of the public function holders of the time when the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia announced an international tender for the acquisition of eight-wheelers, which did not have a system technology offer chosen, but rather the competitive offer of the Finnish Patria, which led Viator & Vector or Zdenek Pavčku to a more than 100 million-dollar deal, triggered a political race against the business with Patrio, and, above all, against the then President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, despite the fact that Patri’s offer was much better than the offer of Systematic Technology. Finally, it is intended to determine how damaged the state budget would be if the implementation of the letter on the intention to supply eight-wheelers through the Systemic Technology signed by the Minister in Ropov to the government and which realization was prevented by Janša's government by the publication of an international tender for the supply of eight-wheelers – that is, how damaged the state budget would be if the first government did not prevent this letter from being realized. During the period prior to the first Janša government, in particular during the period of government led by the then LDS party, sales of state property were often untransparent, past the public eyes, many times the objectives pursued by each good owner or owner were not pursued. In most cases, the party's interests from this period of ownership also stemmed from the biggest Taiwanese acquisitions that the first Janša government could no longer prevent. In most cases, these acquisitions ended by the fact that representatives of the political elite associated with the then ruling option, with the support of the largest state banks, as well as private banks, whose drink we will obviously pay for a while longer by taxpayers, collected state shares and sold them further for a substantial higher value, or the burden of paying them back over the non-refundability of the credits paid and through the rehabilitation of banks with the money of the people, taxpayers, those who are forced to pay such or other taxes, which were passed on to the country every day during this government. By the way, today I can say happy Slovenia! Today Slovenia is happy because the government of Alenka Bratušek today, at least as far as I followed the media, has not been happy with any new tax, so I can say that today is a truly happy day from this point of view. He'll be a little less happy tomorrow and the next day. So it was only to those who were surprised by the economic crisis at a time when they failed to complete the closure of these financial transactions, or to those who had drifted away from this political province that supported these developments. These are facts, verifiable facts. And not just today our generation, many years from now, will generations be behind us, young people who are robbed of their future due to these jobs – by the way, how many jobs will be lost because the state of two private banks will save at least half a billion, and in reality with a billion euros? How many jobs were there about a month or two ago to discuss how successful the government of Alenka Bratušek had been in negotiating €10 million for the employment of young people from the European Social Fund in this financial perspective? How many of these jobs and how many young people have been robbed of the future because, in the past, the work that has taken place through the same political options, unfortunately, the left political province, has not been adequately prevented? Similar processes as in these sales of state property have been followed during these periods by purchases of military equipment. These, too, occurred mainly in a non-transparent way during the LDS time, with no proper price verification, many auctions, and a lot of equipment was obsolete at the time of purchase, used or technologically obsolete. Some of this was found by the Commission of Inquiry 6X6, which found that most projects in the framework of the implementation of the basic development programmes at the Ministry of Defence had not been carried out sufficiently transparently and with the care of the good host, that no call for the purchase of equipment had been published in any case, that they had been carried out on the basis of a direct order in the vast majority and that the State had been damaged by the manner in which individual purchases were carried out. Apparently, in some cases, it was a little more. Instead of pursuing a dominant policy for the sale of a state-owned company that produced arms equipment for the purposes of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it pursued the latter’s benefits in particular, with the aim of maximising profits for the company owned by a party’s friend, then Prime Minister of the Government of Anton Rope. The following events and activities point to the fact that the then policy of System Technology sold mainly to enable the private to make an exceptional profit in the supply of eight-wheelers and allowing them to own several hundred million Euros worth of logistics company Viator & Vector with tax money, since on the basis of a letter of intent between Grizold and Pavčko, the Slovenian Army would buy hundreds of million Pandur II or Krpan eight-wheelers at about 18% higher price than in the case of Patria, while the product would be incomparably worse. This transaction was prevented by the first Janšev government by changing the acquisition process and by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia for the purchase of eight-wheelers published an international tender, thus preventing the pre-armed arms transactions until then. At this point, I think it is again and again that the question is why, until today, no proceedings have been initiated concerning these works, why no one has been convicted. The question arises whether it is possible that all names belong to the left political provenance, that some actors are performing in a number of similar cases, and the characteristic of all is the impairment of public funds and, on the other hand, the enrichment of politically privileged individuals. The question is also raised as to whether these cases point to the fact that part of the prosecution and the judiciary are politically connected and we are dealing with a parallel government that protects its own and prosecutes those who cannot be accounted for and represent political power. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] network. [[...]] All these questions will need to be answered in the context of the investigation and political responsibility identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Ljubica Jelusič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It has already been concluded from the proposaler's presentation that the debate on the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the case of Krapan will be significantly broader than what is actually stated in the document establishing or assigning this Commission of Inquiry. Kolga Černač spoke about the so-called broader dimensions of the debate on defence purchases in Slovenia. Personally, I also think that this investigator will really need to talk about the broader dimensions, but not the different political accounts, but mainly about the professional issues that today and in the past 22 years have addressed the issue of the defence industry in Slovenia and its various defence purchases. First of all, it will be a professional question whether we apply public procurement rules or rules on defence and confidential procurement in the field of defence. These things have somehow been regulated by a law adopted by the National Assembly in December 2012, in which it has also made procurements in the field of defence and confidential procurement subject to the rules applicable to all public contracts, in particular in terms of complaints to the State Audit Commission. But this was not done on the basis of – and the government that proposed it did not make this change on the basis of its own personal, original need to regulate defence and confidential orders, but mainly on the basis of a request from the European Union. It was about the introduction, application of the European directive on defence and confidential procurement. This is the first thing we're going to have to take into account, and it's of professional importance. The second thing we will have to take into account is some kind of conflict in the defence industry, and this is who manufactures defence products and who buys them. Which countries, whose corporations, whose multinationals today are capable of having a whole developmental part of a new arms system, produce it and sell it mass, and who are we who can only buy it if we have money in the state budget or if we can be in charge of it. The question is whether we in Slovenia are able to maintain our defence industry and whether it then contributes to national wealth. It is not essential whether this defence industry is in private hands, as you suggested when you were talking about what would happen to Systemic Technology, or in state hands. Again, we have two models in Europe: the defence industry in the German state, which is all privatised but decisively helping to develop the German economy today. Nobody speaks publicly about this, but let us not forget that when Greece was in the worst trouble of its sovereign debt, it gave up all things, the whole public sector. Even today, she has put teachers, doctors, educators and everything on the road, but she has not given up her business with the German defence industry in the field of warships. Let us therefore ask ourselves what this connection is between the German private defence industry and the national wealth or the national economy of Germany. On the other hand, we have a French case where most of the defence industry is still in state hands, as well as this type, this model helps to increase the French economy or, in particular, national wealth. When we talk about one case, one small case from the history of 22 years of defence and confidential orders in our country, we will also have to have these facts about global processes in the field of defence industry, and in particular we must have a period before our eyes after the end of the Cold War, after the fall of the Iron Curtain, when it came to trying to take over the eastern European space by various, including defence multinationals, and it was a question of who will get this space. Whether this space will be obtained – for sale, not for production – by the European defence industry or by the American defence industry. Since you have talked a lot in the description of the proposal for this act, with respect to what the government of Rob and what the government of Janša has done, it is obvious that we will not be able to avoid the constant opposition of the two businesses, namely the business that has not been carried out and the business that has been carried out – it has not been carried out but has been carried out. You have also spoken, and there is also a lot of talk in the documents about the fact that Janša's government has carried out an international tender. It's a delusion. This was media fraud back then, in 2005, when it happened, and this is a fraud today. Defensive and confidential contracts shall not be made under the rules of public tender but shall be carried out in accordance with the rules of contract, either through direct negotiations or through the award of a confidential or defence order. At the end of 2005, Janša's government did the same. In awarding a confidential order, she invited 8 producers, who at the time knew that they were producing eight-wheelers to submit their bids, and two companies submitted bids. Let us now leave behind who were the representatives of these two international companies in Slovenia. When these two companies submitted their bids, the government then chose among them the most favourable bidder. One more thing to warn you. I have talked about this conflict between the defence industry, which is either original, in the country or it is such that it only buys on international markets and it is possible to do the most that it does, that it consists of parts that are already made abroad, the final product. This conflict was also seen in the project mentioned or referred to, and it begins somehow in 2004. It is a question of which weight prevailed after the state or government had at its disposal two offers, which weight was decisive. Some tried to get the blame on a military commission that identified military capabilities or the capabilities of both offers, but the fact is that the ability, efficiency, military utility of both vehicles had less than half the value or weight in the final decision. The main weight in the final decision was in the contribution to the national economy. Again, on the question with which Drnovšk’s government, I think, was positively concerned, I think, was before him. It was about whether our country would at that time maintain the ability of the Slovenian defence industry to develop, through science, knowledge, development institutes, technology and with the help of Slovenian armed forces, the capacity of the Slovenian defence industry to compete in NATO. That is why, at the time, in 2004, the Science for Security and Peace Objective Research Programme was also established and followed in 2006, in the time of the Janša Government, including the Technology for Security and Peace – two major scientific and development projects or programmes that contained a large number of different small projects, from which they were mainly drawn by small, medium and large enterprises on the Slovenian market in order to develop parts of what could be called the Slovenian defence and industrial sector. It seems inappropriate for me to try to involve Minister Grisold in the debate, as if he had acted in the sense of political speculation at the time, but on the other hand, his efforts are overlooked, deliberately, and professionally, in order to preserve and further develop the Slovenian defence industry. Another fact that I have to point out here is that in this act on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry, which at first sight seems to be about Systemic Technology and its sale, later when it sees what the main objectives are, it sees that the talk will be more about the letter of intent than about Systemic Technology. I think that the letter of intent should be an integral part of this document, because the main actor, the main actor, will in fact be the main subject of this investigation a letter about the intention of the State industry of the Republic of Slovenia in providing equipment for the Slovenian armed forces, as written on behalf of this document. Moreover, this document was not signed by Minister Grizold, signed on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, with the power of Minister of Defence, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry. This also says something about the meaning and value of such a letter of intent. If you are trying to align the value of the letter of intent with the signed contract with this document, then this is very wrong. The letter of intent was clearly some kind of recommendation to the Slovenian defence industry, either in the search for a wider, international market or in its integration role within the country, as to how to deal with the purchase related to the document adopted in the National Assembly, namely the Resolution on the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and with which it was adopted in the National Assembly that the State would acquire 135 eight-wheelers to strengthen the fighting character of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Now we would go to the position or thinking of our party or the Social Democrats in this story. We will actively participate in the commission of inquiry, because we would also like to strongly prevent attempts at manipulation and political accounts back 10 years ago, with the vats we have today. The defence industry and defence purchases will have to take into account the circumstances of the period in which they originated, and this is typical of 22 years of Slovenian defence purchases. In the Social Democrats, we believe that it would be more appropriate today to study such things scientifically, through politically neutral scientific methods, because only in a neutral way would we come up with an answer about how the Slovenian defence industry failed in 22 years. However, if this is not the case, we will try to contribute as much as possible in our work in the commission of inquiry to the professional debate, to take into account both international aspects and domestic aspects, and to avoid any accounts with those who had sincere intentions in order to preserve the defence industry in Slovenia, to link science and to the needs of the Slovenian armed forces. Dear colleagues, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Group of the National Gazette. Mr. Richard Branisel will have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye! Why this investigative committee? Why this act? We can know this is about the Krapan versus Patria, but we don't have a problem with that. The proposal, the request for the establishment of this commission, is perfectly legitimate, correct. The Civil Code supports such a commission and will also contribute constructively to the wish that it will then prove that the establishment of this Commission has been properly and well-intentioned. The Civil Code is also intended to open all archives talking about arms transactions in this country. We feel that all foreign secret services know what is in these archives, only in Slovenia we do not know. As long as we don't know, I think all these stories are going to fly around, all these stories aren't going to get epilogues. If a proposal is made to open these archives, the National Gazette will also support such a law, and as regards the establishment of this commission, the fact that the Commission of Inquiry will be established is an active part of this investigation committee, and the National Gazette foresees an active role in this investigation committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u114	That's a good-bye again. That's the third time today. Your Honor! I hope you won't mind if I try to put the Slovenian People's Party's position on the proposal to launch the Krapan Parliamentary Inquiry, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the real ground, and I will also say some things very clearly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have decided not to support this parliamentary inquiry. There's more than one reason. One of the basic and basic things is that the law enforcement authorities, the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, in 10 years in this area have done nothing of the sort. If you only remember the notes not in the Reporter, but in Mladina, as my colleague Jelusic had said before about the collapse of the Slovenian defence industry, it is interesting that when the System Technology was sold, the government of Mr. Ropa said nothing about the fact that System Technology, as a business in a particularly poor economic situation, did not say that the company, from 1992 to 2003, alone with the Ministry of Defence, had concluded for 7.68 billion tolar business, that it had already concluded a contract for 2005 including VAT of 8 and a half billion tolars, etc., that it was a key issue, and remained open after 10 years, because the State of the System Technology Share did not sell it directly to Steyr, why it had sold it indirectly through Viator & Vector, that it sold it was only within a few months later to Viator & Vector for a 4 times higher price. If we are talking about the military industry, which can, as has already been said, either in the state or private hands, in the majority state property or in the majority private property, we can say that in Slovenia, neither the first nor the second model holds with us, but keeps the model "kidnap the state, give it a private one". At the same time, all law enforcement agencies will keep silent and likely have some of these. If I only recall the statement made by the then Director of the Anti-Corruption Office of Boštjan Penk, who, as Director of the Anti-Corruption Office, spoke about the fact that he only received data from the media, to follow the links between officials who move from politics to private companies and later from the country to collect transactions. He had already talked about the powers to detect such irregularities by the police, such as the prosecution. Andrej Bajuk, who was chairman of the budgetary control commission, was also very keen after the National Assembly on the lack of State control over state assets and, in particular, on enterprises where the state is the majority owner, and on the holes in the property balance sheets. We don't have that option today, so this is what's going on. The third branch of government doesn't work, it still doesn't work. The then president of the Committee on the Economy, Mr Ferri Horvat, also asked the Ministry of Economy for some detailed information on the sale of Systemic Technology. That was all that happened. The highest authority, the National Assembly, the elected Members and Members did not have and do not have control over state property and the creation of a hole. Why not? Because we have such legislation. Why do we have such legislation? Because it's accepted by the National Assembly, we. But that's not true. The pure truth is somewhere between the lines. The truth is that such legislation was mainly prepared by the private institutions of the former LDS government with 17 years of authority, and they did not do so by keeping an eye on this property, but by stealing it, so today we are where we are. Even the mea maxima culpa during 2004-2008 and in the last year when we were in power – we too did not know how to prevent it or put anything like it in the legislation, in the National Assembly, which I have repeatedly warned of as a coalition member within the coalition. Even now, if someone from the opposition came with such legislation, I believe that unfortunately the coalition would oppose it. It is not that we have a negative opinion on the content of the proposed investigation, because I am now talking about the content. In the Slovenian People's Party, we allow the possibility that this scenario existed. It is clear from the material that a number of things mentioned are also true. I said the material wasn't a reporter you wouldn't believe in, it was Youth. It is known to the entire Slovenian public that a number of things have happened around the purchase of eight-wheelers for the Slovenian Army in the past, something that the competent authorities have said in style: in an unknown place at an unknown time and in an unknown means of communication. In this case, there was a known place, a known way, a known seller, a well-known buyer, known money, known people, intertwined even related to the highest peaks of politics, and the law enforcement authorities did nothing. Official institutes that have a wide range of investigative methods and trained investigators regarding corruption related to the real purchase of eight-wheelers have not come to the truth in love. That's why I can't imagine where we'd get into the National Assembly with this sting team we have to investigate some unrealized story after 10 years. What it looks like in the commission of inquiry, and also sincere thanks to the leadership of the National Assembly in this mandate, it has not been as it is now that one secretary would cover two or three commissions. I ran one property damage once, and she was the secretary for this committee, and we had more than enough work to do. Finally, the highest authority decided by voting that it had withdrawn the point when we had the conclusions adopted from the hearing. Colleagues and colleagues, I have even given the initiative to amend the rules of procedure to change the rules of procedure in this part and to amend the legislation for the investigative commissions, but something like this will not be seen for a long time because it will not happen as my colleague Tonin said: no matter where it comes from, it will be more important what the content is. The leadership of the National Assembly also helps to prevent the work of investigative commissions. By the way, one of the banks is already one of those cases. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that in these truly difficult times of crisis the task is the most responsible – and this is what we are in the National Assembly – among the first to deal with job-saving, budgetary hole-screwing, bank-savvy, etc., and that in the National Assembly we are aware of our own, I will say, historical responsibilities may be just before arrival – the troika is waiting – and instead of these investigative stories, we take the time to save and the future of our country. Let us, however, ask the authorities to do something at a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Say hello again to all your friends and friends! I will try, in a few words, my dear colleague Zanoškar and Tanko, to say my thoughts and thoughts to the DeSUS Group on the establishment of an investigative commission. In recent years, a number of investigative committees have been set up with this topic, which we are also talking about today – the sale of Systemic Technology to Viator & Vector, the acquisition of infantry armoured vehicles and the Patria affair. I wonder what this investigative commission can find out, which the previous investigative commissions have not identified. Do the signatories insist on the request for a parliamentary inquiry order for further investigations only because the findings of the previous investigative commissions were not satisfactory? I also wonder what, by warming up the same things in the past, we can contribute to improving the current situation in our country and solving the long-standing crisis, which beats the poorest – workers, pensioners, social supporters, etc. In doing so, it is worth stressing the fact that by setting up an investigative commission, the State will again have additional costs. Is this also considered within those who have proposed this investigation? We do not, in principle, oppose the establishment of an investigative commission in our parliamentary group, but we already know in advance what the previous investigations have found – the result will be zero. It is true that in our Group of Members we condemn corruption and customerism, we want to explore it, but my dears, has it not been enough time for us to do this once and to focus on the situation in which Slovenia is at this point? We do stupid things that are not for the benefit of the people who live in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mr Peter Oder.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u118	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Assembly! The SDS Group and NSI and unrelated MEP Vogrin have submitted a request for a parliamentary inquiry requiring the National Assembly to order a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to enable the owner of the Systemic Technology, Viator & Vector or Zdenek Pavčko to obtain a job for the acquisition of infantry armoured vehicles or armored vehicles 8x8. The investigation is directed against the government under the mandate of 2000-2004 or its Chairman, Magi. Toneta Roba and then the largest ruling LDS party. In Positive Slovenia, we point out that the request for a parliamentary inquiry coincides with the opening of the court of Ljubljana in the Patria case to convicts, including former Prime Minister and SDS President Janez Janša. After three months of the sentence in the Patria trial, the court sent a written explanation to the addresses of the persons involved, explaining in detail why the defendants had been found guilty and what evidence had convinced him. On this basis, on 5 June this year, the court found Janez Janša, president of SDS, Ivan Črnkovic, owner of Rotis and Brigadier Toneto Krković to be guilty of crimes related to the giving or receiving of gifts for unlawful intervention in the selection and purchase of Finnish armoured personnel. Janez Janša was sentenced to two years in prison and Črnkovich and Krković for 22 months. The request for a parliamentary inquiry does not constitute a coincidence for us. The SDS President and former Prime Minister Janez Janša reiterated several times after the verdict in Patria's case that he would use all legal and political means against the judgment written in advance and after a politically motivated process. The request therefore constitutes a political means by which the SDS wishes to rejuvenate the judgment handed down to Janez Janša and to attempt, in the context of the parliamentary investigation, to condemn former political opponents politically so that they do not attempt to commit the alleged corruption committed by their government at that time. The ancient Romans would best illustrate this kind of reasoning of John Janša with a river argument ad absurd. If we translate the latter into our language, Janša argues for the service of the corrupt act of his football team – that is, the Finnish and Patria mark SDS – as necessary to prevent the corruption of the former Prime Minister and his football team, forgetting that the previous Prime Minister and his football team did not commit or prosecute them. In this regard, it is also worth noting that, during the 2004-2008 mandate relating to the Patria affair in the National Assembly, two parliamentary investigations were conducted, one of which requested by the SDS, investigating the acquisition of arms for the Slovenian Army in 1994-2007 and the other requested by the LDS, and the acquisition of eight-wheelers. The parliamentary inquiry requested by the SDS at the time was intended solely to divert attention from the parliamentary inquiry into the Patriage, which was approximately one month earlier, 30. 3. 2007 determined at the request of the then LDS. Both investigative committees were named after their presidents in public and were referred to as the Cwicklov and the Czernachev Commission. In this case, the request of the motioners of the parliamentary investigation reminds us of the Hollywood science fiction film Minority Report, when law enforcement and justice authorities were able to arrest and condemn people before the crime that never happened. In Positive Slovenia, we regret that the SDS Group has allowed the hostage of the conviction of the party president or to be used for his personal struggles with the judicial authorities. In addition, the National Assembly will be burdened by our assessment with a completely irrelevant investigation, which, apart from the political convictions, will not reveal to the Slovenian public anything that would not be known to it from the previous parliamentary investigations and from the first instance judgment of the Ljubljana District Court. In addition, it is worth noting that in the judgment handed down by the Ljubljana District Court, Janez Janša mentions in her explanation that the government has only adopted a programme for equipping the Slovenian Armed Forces in the mandate of 2000-2004 and has launched a new, Janša's government for the purchase of eight-wheelers. In Positive Slovenia, we also regret that various paranoid phobias, the search for political plots in the Korean companies, the lack of confidence in our own defence industry, our top engineers and the corrupt actions of the then Janša government have led to unnecessary sacrifices of Korošci and Korošice. In addition to the fact that unemployment began to increase in Koroška, many Koroška families were forced into economic emigration to their relatives in Austria and some in Australia, the biggest arms trade in Slovenian history and the money of all Slovenian taxpayers was subsidised by so-called jobs only in Finland. Throughout the history of the country's creation, the Corrosans were almost always primarily on cash independence and paid a high blood tax on the Soviet front, with the loss of the vast part of the territory on the Koros plebiscite, with the spilled blood in World War II as victims in the self-conquering war. The hypnotic loss of markets in the former Yugoslav republics was paid with unheard of high unemployment, a heart of plentiful social pressures and one of the highest rates of suicide in Slovenia. And there's something else going on between paid bills. Today, Korosts and other Slovenians are not interested in who wanted to give them a job they never received, but they know very well who took it from them, who gave it to whom and under what circumstances. It would be good not to pour salt on the not fully healed wound caused by the corrupt and masculine attitude of the Janša government of Korošec and Korošica by its own country. In view of all of this, we estimate that the investigation is not in the public interest, but rather an investigation which is of key interest to the SDS President and its main purpose is to relativise the fact that he was convicted of a crime in the Patria affair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the parliamentary inquiry that we are establishing today is in the public interest. Therefore, it also requires answers to the questions I will raise below and some of them have already been mentioned in the additional explanation of the applicant's request. On 20 August 2004, the former government signed a letter of intent for armored 8x8 with Systemic Technics, the first of which was Zdenko Pavček, a prominent member of LDS. Therefore, the parliamentary investigation will first have to determine whether the signature of the letter of intent of 20 August 2004 for the purchase of armoured 8x8 was carried out in accordance with the rules and guidelines adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Commission of Inquiry will also have to ask whether the procedure before signing the letter of intent was transparent, especially the price of armored 8x8, when the letter of intent was signed. Let us especially remember those who may not know the details of this story and who did not follow it so closely: the then government led by Anton Rop signed a letter of intent without an invitation because of friendly political ties, as well as in many other businesses. The deal was concluded on the basis of the Resolution on the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, adopted in the 2004 National Assembly. However, the players at the time were obviously not primarily driven by the desire and concern for the development of the Slovenian Army, but rather by the greed for the profits to follow from this concluded business. The following events are the ones that show that all businesses should be carefully planned and, above all, should be carefully planned. As a result of the amounts in the game, the people in the Systemic Technology and LDS circle began to panic after the transaction began, with Janša's government coming to power after the 2004 elections, there was a major panic. Today, we can see why, and we can see why, in view of everything else that has been going on, the political accounts later took place in the case of Patrio. In 2003, Prime Minister Anton Rop sold his friend and political support Zdenek Pavčku 80 % of the System Technology, which was previously managed by taxpayers with EUR 4 million, for less than €2 million. For Positive Slovenia, it is likely that this is not at issue, even with the presentation presented earlier. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we agree that it is necessary to determine why the then government led by the Mag. Anton Rop, sold by Systemic Technology at an extremely low price, thus providing the buyer, in this case, to Viator & Vector, with some kind of basis for obtaining a multi-hundred-million-dollar eight-wheeler deal, both untransparent and beyond the call for tender. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also agree that the Commission must determine why the share of the Systemic Technology in exchange for obtaining the eight-wheel licence was not sold directly to the Austrian company Steyr and thus avoided brokering the business. This will be really interesting to explore and explore. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the sale of 80% of the Systemic Technology Zdenek Pavčku's 80% share of the first-class manipulation priced funnyly low. First-class manipulation of taxpayers on the one hand and an excellent opportunity for wealth on the other. These are not only indications that some media are extremely fond of being referred to, but a sad fact. As is the sad fact that now that it is the most up to date – to say one current case – all of us from our own pockets will be able to resolve Takun loans from Factor Bank and Probank. Former Prime Minister Anton Rop wanted to enable Zdenko Pavčku to obtain profitable arms transactions, most likely not only for him but also for those who allowed him to buy the System Technology firm firmly below the price. Therefore, the deal with eight-wheelers did not start with Janša's government, as the public had long wanted to deceive itself, especially by then Member of the Social Democrats Milan M. Kwikl, who has already been his own – and this can be said – dirty work in the Patria affair received a well-paid job in the institutions of the European Union, but this deal, once again, without a call for a call, was untransparent, already determined, because it was a friendly, clientelistic relationship, by the government of Anton Rope. The crucial moment in the issue of armoured personnel took place at the moment when the voters and voters allocated the highest number of their votes in the 2004 elections to the SDS party, which then took over the leadership of the country after years of continuing left-wing political options. At that time, however, Janša’s new government not only took power but also wanted to bring an end to some established patterns and practices, which had many instances of corruption and clientelism. In particular, Janša’s government wanted to break up with such a pattern of political action, clearly in the armored business. The first government, led by Janez Janša, demanded a transparent selection process for the best and most favourable eight-wheeler maker, unlike the Government of Rop. On the basis of two offers prepared by Systemic Technology and Rotis, the latter was then selected. According to the criteria which it had as a more favourable offer, the Commission recognised the correct offer of Rotis. This decision, which was made in a transparent manner and in full compliance with the law, not as we were used to it until then under the rule of Anton Ropa, caused a real shock within the LDS' economic-capital lobby in its own kind and even wider. However, there is something else that has shown how some things work for us. It turned out what happened when you shut down people like that from the state. The problem arises if you make a domestic deal, solely on the basis of political friendships. All of a sudden, when they close your money supply, they can no longer sell on the market, because, if I say so, they have closed their access to state money. We only remember Mirage, which, with the help of contacts in LDS, later in Zares – for all of this, stands Gregor Golobič, we have long known all of these stories – has obtained a job to print order numbers or personalize labels for technical review, which has brought extraordinary profits to this company. However, Mirage literally broke out of the Slovenian market when the first government led by Janez Janša abolished the unnecessary technical review stickers, which added to the burden of citizens and citizens. These stickers were meaningless, and on the other hand, the owners’ profits were enormous — all on the political line. Today, – interestingly – this same Mirage company, due to the loss of profits from the country, requires EUR 8 million and an additional EUR 4 million to stop the production of passports. This is how a fair and just state works for us. In May 2007, a parliamentary investigative commission was set up to investigate the alleged irregularities of the operation between Patrio and its mediator in Slovenia, Rotis, and the Ministry of Defence. Her leader, the formerly mentioned Member of the Social Democrats, and then the Secretary-General of the Pahor government, Mr Milan M. Cvikl, wanted to convince the public, together with the other opposition Members, that Janez Janša's government, with the choice of the Finnish company Patria, had damaged the country for 50 million euros. We have listened to this mantra without knowing how much time this year, and only because their favourite was not chosen on the invitation, as has already been said, by a close companion of the political left, then the ruling LDS, Mr Zdenko Pavček. There is certainly an open question as to who all around the then LDS could benefit from the hundreds of millions of Euros worth of arms dealing, and I think it is in the interest of all citizens and citizens to actually say this once in a loud voice, to investigate and to hold people accountable. That they really answer, not that they have well-paid jobs somewhere just because they have done some things in a way that discredits a political competitor. It is therefore necessary to determine whether the international invitation to tender for the acquisition of eight-wheelers, published by the Ministry of Defence during the government run by Janez Janša, prevented Zdenko Pavčku from obtaining a multi-million-dollar business without a call for tender, since the offer by Patrie or Rotis was approximately EUR 50 million lower than the offer by Systematic Technology and thus prevented him from taking over the Viator & Vector. This needs to be investigated, and I hope that this commission will do the same. It is also necessary to determine whether, due to the subsequent decision of the government led by Janez Janša, when the Ministry of Defence published an international tender for the acquisition of eight-wheelers, where the system technology offer was not selected, and the competitive offer of Finnish Patria, which did not give Viator & Vector or Zdenko Pavčku a multi-million-dollar deal, triggered a political race against cooperation with Patrio. This too needs to be identified and investigated. In the requested parliamentary investigation, it is also necessary to determine whether persons in the principal interest sphere of the LDS and SD really expected or received both political and economic benefits from the business. It is necessary to determine whether they were behind the fact that, so to speak, Roboveva and Pavček's arms trade were actually strong party ties, as we have been saying in the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time, and on the basis of the findings, the responsibility of all the public function holders and holders of public authority must be clearly held accountable. It is high time that, in this country, the person responsible is finally responsible for the non-transparent and clientele transactions, as well as for all those sales of state property that have not been made in a transparent manner. As my colleague, Montenegro, explained in the introductions as a proponent, I would also like to add that sales of state property took place in a non-transparent manner at the time of the LDS government. Many times, it was not a goal that would benefit all citizens and citizens, but was the goal of someone else, primarily the profit of someone. Party interests prevailed, and there are also Taiwanese acquisitions from this period of ownership, and today we are where we are. During the LDS government purchases of military equipment also took place in a non-transparent manner, with confidential orders, often without proper price checking, with numerous auctions, etc. This is also why certain things need to be re-examined within this Commission of Inquiry. We once had an investigative commission in the National Assembly to determine the political responsibility of the public function holders who participated in the preparation and execution of the purchase of light armoured vehicles 6x6, then in connection with the government aircraft, with Habibica 155, with the Pilatus aircraft, with the renewal of the T-55S tanks. All of these were financed under the Basic Development Programmes of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Slovenia from 1994 to 2007. But what is most important is that the Commission of Inquiry at that time found that most of the projects in the framework of the implementation of the core development programmes were not sufficiently transparent. Not a single project. In no case has an invitation to tender been issued for the purchase of equipment. Not in one case at all. Nor were prices and quality properly checked, not to mention that, in individual cases, purchases were made through intermediaries, that the Commission of Inquiry at that time also found what seemed essential to me – the political responsibility of certain public function holders in the execution of individual projects, but that they had never been held accountable, had not resigned their functions, nor had they been replaced. The law enforcement authorities have never done their job in this area, which is the least they could expect. Without any consequences today, those responsible, as I said before, are sitting in well-paid positions in Europe, most likely for a reward because they have done their jobs so well. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that in the framework of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which is short-listed with the name Parliamentary investigation of Krpan, it is necessary to determine whether it was a politically agreed non-economic transaction. We need to find out if it was actually corruption and customerism. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this was so that the business was not intended to protect the interests of the country and to achieve a lower price in the purchase of eight-wheelers, but the primary and only objective was to provide more than 100 million Euros of valuable business, without a call for tender, without checking the price and without prior checking competitive offers and products. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is only right for us to conduct an investigation into the corruption affair of the arms dealership, Rob-Pavček. Undoubtedly, these are also expectations of the public. We believe that the Commission's findings will expose the business, which was pre-customeristically agreed and has had extremely negative consequences for the Slovenian country, and is also one of the most destructive patterns of tycoonisation in Slovenia. Here, honourable Members, honourable Members, it is not a matter of political accounting, as has been said by the representative of the Social Democrats in the opening position, but rather of actually clarifying this business, especially that those responsible for such controversial transactions are also responsible and that the law enforcement authorities are finally doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving on to the debate. The first three discussers are Jerko Čehovin, Alenka Jeraj and Matjaž Zanoškar. Mr. Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you. I'm a little surprised to be the first. History seems to repeat itself, most often as farce, and so does today. This proposal, which is on the table today, does not deserve any serious judgment, although I know that you place great hopes in this work of yours, but is in fact only a recycling of what has already been seen, and confirms that dementia is a progressive disease and that quite a large part of the National Assembly has been affected by Alzheimer's. If I say that, I say this because we already had, for the first time, an investigative committee that worked in 2007. She heard a total of four Witnesses, and in the end, what was to be foreseen and what was to be foreseen now, she found that the transactions were not transparent. And the second thing that seems particularly to me, in a way, I will say, funny or tragic, is that none of the applicants said that there was an internal and external audit in this regard. That the case was even more absurd, members of the Court of Auditors at the time asked for an external audit — the late Andrej Bajuk and SDS Member Branko Kelemin and Joža Tanko. Apparently, they forgot that everyone demanded it. This audit was carried out in 2005. Here I have 49 pages of this audit. I don't mean to read this here, but I'm just going to read these summaries that are interesting. "The Court of Auditors revised the sale of the company's business share of Systemic Technology. In 2002, the company Systemic Technology was established by an inactive company owned by the Slovenian Railway Company. This year, the 100 % share of SŽ, SŽ-Stroji and technology equipment d.o.o., Ravne na Koroškem acquired system technology by means of payment transfer. [[hereinafter referred to as ‘the WTO’]] . In the process of forcible settlement, the latter transferred the programme to the System Technology. The objective of the review was to establish the correctness and usefulness of the 80 % sale process of Systemic Technology. The Auditor was the Government of the Republic of Slovenia because it is competent and responsible for managing and managing the immovable and other property of the Republic of Slovenia and for controlling the work of the Ministry. In drawing up an opinion, the Court of Auditors took into account the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not adopt a scheme for the sale of the business share of the company Systematic Technology or to supplement the WTO sales programme despite the confirmed forced settlement of the company of the WTO and the transfer of its business to Systematic Technology. The possibility of supplementing the sales programme was provided for by an existing regulation which does not regulate the sales procedure of companies which do not fall directly into the country's capital investments under the ZJF. Nor has the WTO’s sales programme been accepted as a complement to the programme in order to change the purpose of buying-in from the sale of all four subsidiaries of the WTO. The Court of Auditors gave a positive opinion on the correctness of the sales procedure. The Commission, appointed to manage and control the sales process, conducted the sales process in a manner that was in all relevant respects in accordance with the current Regulation. In accordance with the applicable rules, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has agreed to conclude a contract for the sale of 80 % of the business share of Systematic Technology. On the basis of the findings on the planning and achievement of the sales objectives, the Court of Auditors considers that the sale was carried out successfully as the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which were set out in the WTO sales programme, were achieved. maintaining the number of jobs and maintaining and further developing the programme of dedicated production [[later Systemic technique]] . In addition to the planned business outcome of Systemic Technics for 2004, sales also achieved other objectives set by the Commission for the management of sales. The price achieved was sufficient to cover obligations under the WTO's compulsory settlement. The Court of Auditors considers that the sale of this business share was effective because all key stakeholders were involved in the sale process and the biggest withdrawal was achieved in the given circumstances. The purchases made from the sale of the company’s business share Systemic technique are minimal [[by 2 %]] exceed the estimated fair market value of 80 % of the company’s business share. The response report was not necessary because no significant irregularities were identified in the audit." I ask whether the investigator will also investigate the Court of Auditors’ judgment or the Court of Auditors’ report. Will we suddenly have top State auditors in the National Assembly who will write a report differently? The answer is clear: this is not the case. The issue is that, according to the agenda that was publicly announced, this political autumn must be made hot. Hot with investigators, hot with emergency meetings, also hot with further investigative commissions, thus distracting the public from what is actually the problem of this country. This is the situation in which we are in the area of public finances, in the field of employment, in the field of the economy, and in particular in the area of banking. There were also many suggestions about matters that were extremely important. You wrote those same things, you only changed the date. In 2007 – those who watched these discussions were the same, they were pulled from the archives, and today you recycled them after six years. Clearly, in this attempt, it's not about saving any soldiers, it's about the Janez Janša Corporation, because Private Ryan was a good soldier. It's not about anything else. It is to confuse matters, to put pressure on a higher court, to try to relativize the court’s judgment and create chaos in this country — to show how everything sucks if it doesn’t happen to us. Nothing else is meant to do that. The aim is to pay a little more to the taxpayers, since the one who leads this commission will come to the higher pay grade to have a slightly improved salary. That's the whole truth of it. I don't see any added value here, not for the country, not for the citizens, not for Parliament, not for those workers who lost their jobs because [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Also, also, with each other. Have you calmed down? Please, President, don't let him jump into my word. I don't have that habit. In short, we really know you're going to set this up, we know you're going to make a pump out of it, but the results won't be any good. I can say in advance that there will be no results, but there will only be some way to communicate how this business has been untransparent and to buy Patrie the most transparent business in the history of Slovenia, as has been said several times before by some actors. In Positive Slovenia, we do not support such a way or action in Parliament, especially because we have heard everything here. The Court of Auditors found that the sale was effective, that the maximum withdrawal was achieved under the circumstances, and that all the other political packages you will start with this investigator are incredible from this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Cernač also wanted a word as a proposaler in the meantime.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Some things were in the context of the presentation of the positions of individual parliamentary groups, and even in this debate that they are demanding, I will say, a comment or an explanation. If I understand correctly, this investigative committee will not be part of the positive Slovenia parliamentary group, as I hear [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Will you cooperate? Oh, well, then I didn't understand this debate, because the predecessor was talking about how unnecessary it is, how it's a waste of time for some to raise wages by participating in this commission of inquiry. Now, if I understand correctly, you will cooperate. What's on it now? Is it necessary or not necessary?Oh, my God! Then the DeSUS Group and the Slovenian People's Party Group will not participate in this investigative commission. This is a matter of the decision of the individual parliamentary group, and the worst thing is that if there is a duality as we have seen it now, when the parliamentary group represents a political platform that tells us how something is unnecessary, how something is related to unnecessary costs, how we will re-invent hot water and at the same time participate in it. It shows this inadequacy, to what your government has shown since the beginning. It began with the introduction of the fiscal rule into the constitution, showing the level of credibility of the President of the Government when she changed her mind within 24 hours. Previously, it was the biggest criticism of not happening, and then she slept over, and the next day, you all pressed the keys to entering the fiscal rule into the constitution. It's nice of you to do this for the country and its interests, but you've shown this duality that you say every day at every point. It is to be understood that you are nervous, nervous, because however we open these papers on Systemic Technology and on-the-job related to this sale and everything else, and with all the other affairs related to this sale and with this unfortunate downturn of business written on your skin or written on the skin of this political mile of the then LDS – most of it is now one way or another within Positive Slovenia – however we open these covers, always your heads come out. Always your heads come out, and I understand that you're nervous and that you want to put this burden of responsibility on someone else on the other side. By the way, there is a lot of talk about the need and non-necessity of these commissions of inquiry. Has not the Positive Slovenia proposed in this mandate one commission of inquiry led by your Member on extremism? Previously led by one other Member, who is now sitting as a civil society adviser in the cabinet of the President of the Government, is now being led by another Member of yours. Tell me how you feel about the effect of this commission of inquiry at the end – on the same standards and vats as you are now discussing in a negative way this commission of inquiry. That's another thing. We know how the parliamentary commission is appointed, we know that the same subject matter of the investigation cannot be redefined. As a result, it is not held that it has already been discussed and that the issue covered by this Commission of Inquiry has already been examined in past mandates. Don't hold it! This establishment order establishes a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the sale of Systemic Technology to the company Viator & Vector and further activities concluded with the signing of a letter on the intention to supply infantry armoured vehicles 8x8 between the Ministry of Defence and Systemic Technology, suspected that it was a politically agreed, non-economic transaction accompanied by the suspicion of clientism and corruption, with its purpose not to protect the interests of the State and to achieve the lowest price in the supply of eight-wheelers, but to provide more than 100 million euro worth of transactions to individuals associated with the then ruling party without a call for a price review and without prior examination of competitive offers and products. That's the purpose of this commission of inquiry. Let me say here in response to Mrs Jelusic, who talked about how we will talk about public procurement in the context of this inquiry and whether it was important what was the importance of choosing Patrie, etc. – we won't talk about it! We won't! Not about public contracts, not about what was important about choosing a particular product, not about Patricia, not about 6x6. What was the weight of 6x6 for choice, I ask you! What?Oh, my God! In less than one month from the moment the Ministry of Defence sent Pavčko's six-wheeled company an offer, over EUR 30 million was signed for more than 8 billion of the tolars at the time. In less than a month! What was the measure or weight, and what was the measure or weight for more than 20 Annexes, which on one side extended the supply hand and increased the price?Oh, my God! But we're not gonna talk about it. Other investigative commissions have already talked about this. Nor will we talk about the choice of Patria, which, repeatedly said, was an expert, chose a better product for over €50 million a lower value, which was technologically significantly better or compared with a product that was practically not. This rag was basically some prototype that wasn't there. Nor will we talk about whether the international tender is a public tender or not. It is important, as Mrs Jelusic said, that the Ministry of Defence sent a tender or offer to eight workers involved in manufacturing to make an offer during the first Janšev government. This is a sort of tender, but not like before, when the Ministry of Defence sent a letter to the Systematic Technician, and within 10 days there was a bid and within 10 days the contract was signed. However, as it is said, there will be no discussion of this investigative committee, but of what I was talking about earlier. Indeed, the Court of Auditors’ audit of the sale of this company was carried out, as stated by Mr Čehovin, but this audit was not carried out on a substantive basis, but on a formal basis – it was simplified to say that the points and branches were respected in this procedure. The audit did not address whether a different price could be achieved in this process than could be achieved. For at the time when the System Technology was sold for 460 million tolars at the price of one armored car, the same company had signed a contract for delivery of more than 30 armoured carnage 6x6 of over 8 billion Slovenian tolars. For the price of one sold, signed contract with the country for over 8 billion tolars. There's no need for this investigative committee to find out. Others also found that with this business something was not right, but that it was agreed solely to obtain, on one hand, a company that would be able to produce weapons technology in connection with a foreign partner, and this was, in this case, an Austrian Steyr, and obtained a license for 8x8. However, the house that valued this company for sale was the same as the one that valued, say, the SID Bank – the same audit house valued the SID Bank with the City Municipality as it valued the company. You probably know what happened to the SID bank? It was purchased at an unknown high price, and in a relatively short time, rather than in a year, it went into liquidation. Most of this burden was borne by Ljubljana and Ljubljana, because it was purchased by the Ljubljana Municipality company, but the actors were similar to what they appear in this case. I mentioned one of them, who is now very active or the first to care for recruitment in state companies, is only Lozey. He is concerned about energy in Ljubljana with Mr Jankovic. At the time, he was the head of Mrs Potočnik's cabinet, and according to media reports, he was a signatory to the SID Bank contract. The same company shows up to evaluate these things. So I believe that the nervousness here is that it is here, because in the introduction I have said that this investigation, according to the subject of the investigation that it has been submitted, is likely to find some links that will eventually draw this subject to other areas that are still in place today, and again raises the question, once again, and I also point out here that none of these actors have happened to date and that none of the procedures, including those of the few that have been triggered, have found anything. If, hypothetically, I suppose, a similar story had occurred, as was the case with the signing of this letter on the intention of the end of Rop's mandate in 2004, and I firmly believe that if there had been no change of power at that time, this letter of intent would have continued with the signing of the supply contract without a review of the price and everything else. But hypothetically, let’s say that such a contract would happen — I don’t know who was Minister – Erjavac or Hojsu. To sign a letter of intent and to go on like this. What do you think would happen? I'm sure those ministers would be behind bars. In this case, at a known time and a well-known place, it was not a promise of a gift, but a concrete action that had concrete financial consequences — nothing happened to anyone. By the way, Mr Oder spoke about our party's president being convicted in court, not yet legally, and he was talking about corruption. The Promise of a Gift — Which? Can you tell which gift, where, at what time, from which person? The charge itself, or even the conviction, speaks of an unknown place, an unknown time, in an undetermined manner, by an unidentified person, in an undetermined way. You don't have to say that, Blackbell. Read the opinions of eminent lawyers who said that this judgment is a disgrace, not only for Slovenian justice, but for the Slovenian state. [[advertising from the hall]] There was no action! That's why it's a problem. But we're not going to talk about this in this investigation. With this debate, you wanted to move the debate away from the topic we are going to talk about. We expect all other things to happen. This investigation will not take 100% of the energy from the National Assembly, but 1% or less. We expect that the Government will not, in fact, cause hot political autumn with the measures it is taking every day. We expect that it will not raise taxes again, we expect it not to raise property taxes abnormally, we expect it not to collect more taxes next year than it did this year for people and the economy. All of this is generated by a hot political autumn and not by this investigative commission, respected. So I appreciate that it is good for you to participate in this commission of inquiry, but I regret that you are very inconsiderate when you speak on the one hand about how unnecessary it is and will not find out, and on the other hand you will cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. It is quite clear from the foregoing that sales of state property during the period of the LDS or its governments took place intransparency, beyond the public's eyes, that the objectives pursued were not pursued by any good owner or owner. We can see that the LDS government tradition has been interrupted by the Janša government's performance, which has clearly been a total shock to the network, which until then has ruled in all areas and is still a large part of the government, so we are where we are. However, some things are being opened and discovered precisely because for four years there was a policy that wanted to clear things up and settle them. However, they drag us like the yoke of a serpent because we did not clear them when they could or should have happened as we did today, that we were still listening to what happened then, who did something, and who did nothing. Back then, in 2004, if you read the articles from that period, many commented on the sale of the country's stake in Systemic Technology at a ridiculously low price as problematic. The problem was also that he sold this to his client friend, the former President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, a logistics magnate that had failed to date, because he was obviously not as capable as he himself thought he was or was only capable of being held to the state budget when he was without effort to obtain state affairs – then the first man of the Viator & Vector Group, Zdenko Pavček. At that time, the Ministry of Defence led Dr. Anton Grizold of the then LDS, led by President Rob, who signed the already mentioned letter of intent with the System Technology or promised her that the System Technology, as it had always been, would work with the State or for the State to deliver what they agreed. As it is said, then comes an unknown flying object — the government of John Janša, who breaks all these agreed stories. It falls into the story with the only correct, transparent way – to invite more arms manufacturers or what we wanted to buy, eight-wheeled armorers. The ministry in the new government, in the government of Janševa, is preparing a new tender. Minister of Defence Erjavec makes things the way they should – to select the one that is most suitable, the cheapest and who will also deliver the best equipment among several bidders. What remains connected with the LDS, which are now lost in the SD party – some were still in Zares, today in Positive Slovenia – other than that everything is prepared for the affair of all affairs, arms or business of the Ministry of Defence – for the affair of Patria. At that time, Mr Cvikl from LDS goes to the SD with a special task of having a great affair to take place, together with Drago Kos, who, by the way, is the brother of the lawyer of the Systematic Technology – again the same names, the same connections that flow back to the surface each time – prepare everything necessary to ensure that Janša's government, which has so badly intervened in the run-off left, will never again win the elections. That is why we have followed all that we are still following today, the farce of which prominent lawyers have spoken. Anyone who wants to read the indictment could read it. I think it's still posted on our website. [[advertising from the hall]] Read it to the person who wants to know what it says and what it condemns. He is condemned to receive, in an undetermined manner, an undetermined form of communication at an undetermined time, a promise to receive a bribe or gift. What a gift, how much money we don't know. The judge relies on the eight texts he sent in two years of Jože Zabožan to Mr Janša, 4 of them on the day of the new year and on the day of President Janša's birthday, so that we can assume that he sent him a card, but it seems to the judge that it was something else, and that is enough to convict someone. There is virtually no legal expert in Slovenia to support this verdict. Matvež Krivic, the advocate of the deleted, said, "There is no proof against Janša." Alexander Cheferin, lawyer: "If the judgment of Klinsky persists, the rule of law is over." Dr. Tone Jerovšek: "By these formulations we can all be condemned." Dr. Lovro Sturm: "The conviction in the Patria case is a violation of the Constitution, criminal law and international acts." The ambassador of the United States of America Mussomeli said, "In a subtle sense, the case of Patrio is a mounted process." Recently, however, we were able to read that someone boasted that they had finally found a judge in court who was willing to condemn John Janša. There has not yet been a commission in the National Assembly to investigate the sale of Systemic Technology and what we are proposing today, as has already been said. Indeed, there have been investigative commissions that have found many things — that during the LDS governments purchases of equipment took place in a non-transparent manner, with confidential orders, most often without proper price checking, with a number of auctions. Do you know anything about this? We have witnessed this in health care and everywhere because the network is working on its own. A lot of equipment was used or technologically obsolete at the time of purchase. The Investigative Commission found that most of the projects carried out in the framework of the implementation of the basic development programmes at the Ministry of Defence which were the subject of the investigation were not sufficiently transparent and with the care of the good host. In any event, it was found that there was no invitation to tender for the purchase of equipment and that, in most cases, the cases under investigation were carried out on the basis of a direct order, even in some cases without proper price and quality verification. Every day we hear about at least three offers. People are being checked by the Court of Auditors, the congregations are looking into everything. They have to prove that they actually checked all the options and found the best bidder, the most favourable. This was not necessary here – the Minister and Systemic Technology are changing for billions of transactions. This was possible only in the time of the LDS governments, in the time of Janša's government no longer, and therefore we have what we have. That, in individual cases, purchases were made through intermediaries — why through intermediaries, who was the intermediary, how much did they earn, why did the state have to pay intermediaries? That in the background of some of the business by-products of the then ruling LDS were mainly in the purchase of light armoured vehicles 6x6, where the sale of the state company Systemic technique by the then government mags. Antona Roba at a significant price to Viator & Vector by client colleague LDS Zdenka Pavčka provided non-transparent transactions described in this report, since vehicles 6x6 were procured directly and following a very simplified procedure. The result is a number of delays in delivery. The penalty was not charged, the other damage was not. The Anti-Corruption Commission is dealing with the employment of one of the politicians' sons, but they are not interested in this connection, but they are not interested in when it is necessary to do a little more research and what more can be learned from the fact that someone has been given a job. There is a high likelihood that some other purchases subject to investigation also had party and other links between individual operators, between natural and legal persons and public function holders. That the political responsibility of certain public function holders in the execution of individual projects under investigation was great but never identified. A number of other conclusions or conclusions were put forward by the Commission, which identifies political responsibility. The political responsibility of the holders of public functions has been established, which follows from the conclusions. The following must also be the action of the authorities in this country to judge and condemn: the police, the prosecutions and at the end of the court. If the courts wanted to do so, the prosecution would do so and clear up any of what the investigative commissions had found, then they would have concluded today. Today these gentlemen are rewarded for all of this. For the damage done by Slovenia, there are today in important services in the European Union with excellent salaries and we are paying back debts. Even for that kind of business. The rule of law is certainly a problem, and we cannot agree that every time we want to clear a matter, there are the same names associated with the names, that there are so many coincidences. I have already mentioned Mr Pavček, Mr Kos, Mr Szvikl, who has moved from LDS to SD, the evident overpayments, the already mentioned findings of previous commissions that there have been untransparent, corrupt purchases and sales of companies, etc. The acquisition of military equipment was obviously a good business for some. Given that the authorities do not carry out their work, which should be initiated on an official basis when suspicions of corruption or criminal acts arise, it is appropriate to set up an investigative commission. Those who consider that the Commission of Inquiry is irrelevant or that the Commission of Inquiry finds nothing would recall the investigative committee I myself led. Until the commission of inquiry began its work, which investigated the work of Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic, his sons, the sale and purchase of land in the Municipality of Ljubljana, etc., while the dark was dealt with by our investigative commission. In cooperation with the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and other institutions in this country, until we have opened these things and obtained evidence that they were corrupt acts, crimes, we have been able to identify as an investigative commission only political responsibility, and we have also identified them. If it were a legal state, Mr Jankovic would no longer be in any visible place today. However, since we are aware that this is not only a political responsibility, but we have also identified the suspicions of crimes in the course of the investigation, we have announced these suspicions to the State Prosecutor's Office, which launched the investigation. Half a year later, after our complaint, when Attorney General Fischer had to set up a commission or investigative group in accordance with the law that we have requested several times, he later had to let go after the complaint brought by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, under all the pressure of the media, and even after half a year and even more to establish a special group dealing with this case. It's been over a year and a half. I hope the organs are working. I have fulfilled my duty – if I have noticed the suspicions of a crime, I have filed an indictment and I have announced to the law enforcement authorities that are obliged to prosecute him or to determine whether we have been wrong in the commission of inquiry or whether it is a crime that must be pursued on the path of justice and ultimately to experience an epilogue. So talking about the fact that investigative groups, investigative commissions are unnecessary, misleading or not trying to clear up some things is why you have concerns about the establishment of an investigative commission. I think that this commission of inquiry will be set up to find out what was going on at the time and also to identify what actors were involved in my notions of crime, but it is true that in the time of the Janša Government we also had to change the Penal Code a little, that some things had become crimes because they had not been and therefore were not possible to prosecute them. I am sure she will answer the questions that we have also written in the request. As it is said, the Commission of Inquiry finds political responsibility. I am confident that in the end, the commission will also find criminal responsibility or press charges against those who deserve it. We demand and expect those who have been involved in such transactions to be punished. Just as you know, the rebels and all those who are making public calls are also demanding – that the tycoons be around, those who have earned more in the economy than they would have had, and that is only because they are part of the Forum 21 network. It is time for things to be cleared up and to be held accountable for their actions, with which they have done mainly harm to Slovenia. In conclusion, in Slovenia so far, there has always been persecution of the wrong people, the wrong person, who has never been proven. The last farce, Patria, will also experience her epilogue of justice, and I am sure that in the end she will be rejected and that you will then be able to pour ashes on anyone who is accused today on the basis of the evidence I have previously described. Today, those who were guilty or who were involved in the arms business and thus served were distributed by various parties. I said before, first from LDS to Zares, to SD, today to Positive Slovenia, but things had to run in such a way that the finger focused on someone else, not on those who were actually actors. In doing so, they play a major role and bear a good part of the blame also by the media, and this will be very clear one day. Slovenian media space is not balanced. To date, Slovenia has not made it through the right diary. At the Faculty of Social Sciences, which raises future journalists, this is no concern of anyone, although they are full of the mouth of pluralisation and balanced media representation. Not a stroke, like I said, of professors who raise future journalists at the FDV. RTV affords a cartoon named Patria, in which she spreads lies even though she has written in her law that she must report properly and honestly. Therefore, the famous media space will be punished for this part of the blame. At the last meeting of the Committee on Culture, we had the 2012 Broadcasting Council Report. I would like to read you just one assessment that tells you where we are, as far as the media area is concerned. Until the proper reporting is done, stories like Patria may arise. According to the Council's assessment, there was no urgent shift from the past to the future in 2012, which means that the process of real and root transition in the media is finally beginning. The Council considers this to be unsatisfactory and therefore dangerous because of the anomalies it leaves behind. The gap between European standards and examples of good practices and our reality is still considerable in many cases. For this reason, we urgently put forward the promotion of European cultural values and standards that feed on the traditions of ancient Greek culture, Christianity, Renaissance, Reformation and Enlightenment, such as truthfulness, intellectual honesty, impartiality, the ethical code of journalists, the protection of individual's personal integrity, the right to privacy, the right to a good name, the right to a different, rational standards in the culture of public dialogue and the critical public that wakes up at all times. Our goal must be to make our media landscape akin to the original ideal of developed democratic societies, in which the media is supposed to be a mediator between reality and the public, not a machine for constructing artificial reality according to the measure of its owner or controller from the background. You know who wrote the most about the Patria affair – Mr Rok Praprotnik, who is today a member of the anti-corruption commission, who suddenly became more than a court in this country. If someone's done something wrong, he needs to have a court-martialed epilogue. It is only the court in this country that can judge and condemn anyone, not the press on some committee that has taken such an important role. We need an investigative committee, we need it to clear up things that keep coming to us on our left and on our right, because we don't clear them when we have to.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, followed by three debaters: Mr Grims, Vogrin and Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! When we hear explanations for the work of an investigator, I think you're losing that lead, those goals you set yourself. We hear a lot about Patria, we hear a lot about convictions, we hear a lot about others, even Jankovic, etc. I don't know if this is the topic that the Commission is going to take on and go on the road to reaching its goal. However, I should say in my own right that I have been a member of the commission of inquiry several times, but just as I have lost confidence in all the investigators in the National Assembly, so I do not now have the overwhelming hope and confidence that this commission will come to anything important. Today, in the National Assembly, we are discussing this committee, which is likely to be back on track for some political reasons, for every investigator is a breeding ground for new hatred, a new focus between political parties and individuals. When the National Assembly considers that law enforcement authorities, the police, the State Prosecutor's Office, the Court, the Court of Auditors or the Ombudsman, are unable to bring things to an end and reach an epilogue that would be burdensome for the perpetrator, then we rely on our competent commission. Why, for God's sake, do we have investigative authorities, law enforcement agencies, creating some sort of atmosphere here, a kind of sharpening and seeking political responsibility for some perpetrators? You know, colleague Zvonko Černač, with this investigator, when it comes to the issue of Systemic Technology, the issue and the wound, which was very painful for Koroška, is once again opened. A wound that's caused great negative effects. Comrade Tinker Bell, at least allow me to take you to Koroška once. To one of these families where Father was employed in Systemic Engineering and lost his job when the contract or letter of intent for the manufacture of eight-wheelers was terminated. At least let us go to them. But don't mind if this little kid doesn't separate between SDS and LDS, he won't separate. But he'll make a good difference by not having money for textbooks or school meals. They, him and others have no interest in political responsibility from 10 years ago for those who have made mistakes in your opinion. They're interested in the facts and the fact that they live on the brink of existence today. Such families who have lost their jobs or are on the brink of existence are more than just men or mothers working in Systemic Technology. If you think that opening this issue today is in this universal Slovenia, when dealing with more vital problems, with problems affecting every citizen and citizen – solving the crisis and taking action – one of the productive actions that this Commission will spend so many and so many hours to discuss and so many and so many hours to explore, then you are deeply wrong. People of God, I hear we live in the same country! Perhaps this vital energy of ours, if we even have it, would be more necessary for something else than for such investigative commissions. Let me also say this: I have never been a member of the LDS and I am not here as an advocate of a party who is no longer in Parliament at all today, but I am speaking from the fact that the sale of Systemic Technology has been investigated by external and internal audits. Why did not the law enforcement authorities then see that something was wrong and initiate procedures? After 10 years, this saving National Assembly with a commission recognizes this responsibility. You know, this commission should expand its scope of action. Here are some new dimensions, the ones that I was talking about: how many families in Koroška have lost their jobs, without the existence of a system technique, due to the termination of that contract. This would be an extension, an extension of the agenda and the work programme of this Commission. How many jobs have been lost?Oh, my God! How many Slovenks and Slovenes were forced to go looking for work in neighbouring Austria?Oh, my God! How many have moved there because of this?Oh, my God! After all, what my colleague Ljubica Jelusič was saying. The space for the defence industry, represented by the Systemic Technology in this part of Europe, was ours, was part of national wealth. We sold good weapons to the countries that needed it. At that time, 70 % of this production was intended for the defence industry. Today is 10 and before 70. Look, someone's taken this place. Isn't that national damage?Oh, my God! Someone else is doing this weapon or this defense equipment. If the policy were wiser then, it would have remained jobs, remained experts, remained technology and could have evolved and continued to be a very strong member of the defence industry. No, that's what your committee's supposed to be investigating. Explore the national damage that has been done after the Systemic Technology has fallen to the ground, that it has barely been restructured and with some new programmes recovered from this framework. But it is never likely that this commission of yours and the results of the commission will be able to restore dignity and integrity to all the people, workers and workers in Koroška who have lost their jobs. You have to ask yourself that, not some irregularities, if there are irregularities. But apparently the Court of Auditors and the others didn't find them. If you find them, then press charges 10 years later. Let the charge be answered, but for me and also for those living in Koroška and suffering this irreparable harm, it is not important. They don't know who LDS is. They don't know who LDS is. I told you, maybe this kid doesn't separate between his clients, who he is, but he knows he doesn't have money for school lunch or school supplies. I am skeptical about this commission of inquiry, although, as I said, Positive Slovenia will participate in this committee – precisely because the Commission will not get any privacy, so that you will not take it in your feelings and in your views elsewhere. Today we have heard different debates. I don't know what Zoran Jankovic has to do with this investigative committee and some other thing. I don't know where that came from.Oh, my God! Was he associated with Systemic Technology?Oh, my God! Or with Spider or with who?Oh, my God! But you'll probably figure that out in your own research. There's been a lot of damage done. I'm sorry, Madam President, I'm emotionally relaxed because it's a healthy Korean company that almost dried up because Janša's government broke the contract. After all, the court's epilogue is here, it's on the table, and the suspects are now guilty. It was intended to destroy the Systemic Technology, to conclude a contract with another supplier and that this deal is being carried out in Austria, Finland and with us in court proceedings and to determine how many commissions and who received that commission were paid. Is that the result of all this?Oh, my God! I'm telling you, if I were you, I wouldn't open this question. I would not even open a request for an investigative commission that is completely clear that many things are blurry in the back and will come in the day by researching this investigator, so it would be best to leave it alone. Let the Court do its job, let the law enforcement authorities do their part, and we in Parliament are trying to make economic growth better, so that conditions in Koroška can be better. Look at the statistics every day. We've got an eviction from Koroška on our agenda. They are moving to neighbouring Austria, also due to Systemic Technology, once again. That would be more productive, not that we would spend hours and hours looking for some witches who were supposed to have done something a few years ago. Clearly, it is also very clear to me that this is just one bluff, that it is only a blurring of a situation that has led to a court ruling. It can't be any different. Not only are we to blame on this side, but let's give Pavček, let's give him the Systemic technique. But this time, at least at my place, you ran into a hard nut. I am emotionally aware of my country of Koroška, and I know what the Korosks are like — the clans, the upright, and the strong. At that time, they were subjected to extreme injustice, irreparable harm, and some families have suffered ever since. That is why I am taking up this issue, which will be addressed by the Commission, from a wider perspective, with other dimensions, social, sociological, including existential dimensions that concern those who have lost their jobs. Positive Slovenia will definitely participate in this committee, but it would be very happy that the epilogue of this commission would be such that there will be so many and so many jobs in Koroška that the injustice will be corrected, that people will have work, that families will have money for existence, that they will not be forced by this situation to look across the border every day – otherwise there is no limit, watching in Pliberk, Lavamünd and beyond these villages. They look up there, they build houses, they drive kids up there, they have them in kindergartens, etc. If this is going to be the Commission's find, well done! Then not only will I lead my colleague Tinker Bell to one poor Korean family, but those who think otherwise can go along, but I can pay the van to see how people live there and what they live for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Jeraj first, and then Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u130	I have to replicate my colleague Zanoskar. I highlighted the investigative commission investigating the investigation of Zoran Jankovic and his sons for one very reason – that I proved the efficiency of the investigative commission. If he wants to explore something, he can. Secondly, I did not say that our courts and the prosecution were unable to prosecute crimes. These cases are not dealt with and the proceedings do not begin until the complaint is filed. Therefore, I think it is appropriate that the Commission of Inquiry, which ultimately also lodges an appeal if it considers that something is wrong. Like I said, I did it myself. By the way, ask Mr Pavčka about the loss of jobs in Koroška. Last year, he received €60 million for his company Viator & Vector and Systemic Technology from NLB. Ask him where he put it. He's the one people should go ask because it's his fault that he lost his job there.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u131	Mr. Tinker Bell, do you have a replica or a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u132	As a proponent. This part, Mr Zanoškar, you are talking about, will also be the subject of this investigative commission – the responsibility for why the Systemic Technology has fallen. But not for those reasons that you have before you and that you've been talking about. Despite the fact that your debate was very demagogous, it has only raised some important questions and it is right to clear them up in the debate on this investigative committee. Questions about why Slovenia is becoming increasingly unsuspecting, why more and more people are unemployed. Not just one family, thousands, tens of thousands will have to go in the coming months, because people will be out of a job and out of a perspective – why? Probably not because of Janez Janša or because of the Systemic Technology, but because of the measures you take, you prevent people in the country from doing business normally, because they have to pay more and more taxes because you will slowly tax all those who have built houses with their work to such an extent that you will renationalize them. As far as Systemic Technology is concerned: if the System Technology was sold directly to Mr Pavčko, a client colleague of Mr Rop, at a price at which Mr Pavček then sold it further and obtained a 29 % stake for more than 80 % of the country's share, I firmly believe that today these jobs would still be there, so that this company would be significantly more developed to have more people in it than ever before. It is true, however, that then there would not be an extension for this business to allow Viator & Vector to be granted to Mr Zdenek Pavček. You cannot blame John Janša or the Slovenian Democratic Party on their shoulders. You can't. You're completely unworthy here. Something similar has been done for some other gentlemen – that they have owned companies from the taxpayers' pockets, and now taxpayers will be paying these questions through Probank, Factor Bank and any other banks, Ljubljanans in the past via SID Bank. This was intended for Viator & Vector. That's exactly what would have happened! Overpaid eight-wheelers of poor quality would allow this company to be Taiwanized. I am happy to go with you, Mr Zanoškar, and we will go together to Mr Pavčko and to some others, say Mr Rigelnik. We will tell people there: look, here are your stings and here are your jobs – in their villas, swimming pools, yachts, houses. Over 10, 20, 30 million are difficult, 20 years ago, when some were sitting in the National Assembly, they were probably less than half a million euros. From what?Oh, my God! Did it come from your own ability? Is it because of what you are discussing and talking about here in a demagogic way? One of the companies that landed in this small Viator & Vector was also established in Postojna. It was a well-known transport company, a locally well-placed transport company. It was called the Transvocto Okap. You know what's on that lot right now, and why it was bought? Not to say how it was bought and why this company could have bought it, but nobody else could. The shops are standing there. There really are a few ten employees - thank God, at least this - but all those drivers, the mechanics lost their jobs. Some drove to Ljubljana or beyond until the bankruptcy of Viator & Vector. For this reason, I ask you not in such a demagogic way, but not in particular in the dark, because once again, I understand that you are nervous – they blow the heads of your political mile out in these jobs. It is wrong, however, to ask the question again why it does not involve those who should investigate these matters on their official salary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u134	Your Honor, a very nice greeting. I must say, today the representatives of the coalition, the transition left, are so fun to listen to. The old proverb says: Bad news is a bad thing. Apparently, there's a lot of bad news. This has now been well spoken of to Mr. Zanoskar, who said, "I wouldn't open it." And I would, Mr. Zanoskar, because I have a good conscience. That's why I signed under this. What's the oldest trick on the transition left? That he always points to another with his finger, and with the abuse of all state institutions and the media, he proves exactly what he does on his own. This is the whole story of the Slovenian transition, which is completely unsuccessful and is, by the way, the only failed example of this in Europe. Unfortunately, people in the media environment, as we have it, simply cannot understand it. It can only be things that are evident and measurable in such an obvious way that no one can deny them. For example, we all believed that worse governments than the Transitional Left government under the leadership of Borut Pahor could never be. But the government of Alenka Bratušek succeeds amazingly and every day proves again that it can be worse, that it can be more destructive for the development of Slovenia than that government led by Borut Pahor. But people can't read it in our media. This must be extracted from individual data or looked into the mirror set up by foreign media. The scales set for us abroad are usually very eloquent, for example, about economic freedom, where we are in the society of the Republic of Congo, Chad, Zimbabwe and others, far behind all others from Europe, not to speak about the members of the European Union. But you did tell a very important story. Such media coverage – the only honorable exception to this is the direct transmission of RTV Slovenia – has a real impact. In the end, people don't separate anymore – but here I completely agree with you – and they think they're all the same. They don't know what LDS is, what SDS is. After that, the LDS’s hard core in Zares moved from Zares to Positive Slovenia. Some faces have changed, the mechanisms on the ground remain the same, the methods remain the same, and people don't understand what's going on. Then they think, if we choose one new one, it'll be different. Figo! You'll get the same thing again, just repacked. The media are already preparing for this, so it will be very interesting to observe further developments. The problem with Parliament is that it does not carry out its supervisory tasks as it should, because it is handicapped because of various such games. One of the supervisory tasks is also the Commission of Inquiry. It has a direct basis in the constitution, it is governed by specific rules of procedure, and we are deciding on this today. The one who is supposed to be the only one to be able to see what corruption is is now the new anti-corruption commission. What the hell is this, people of God?Oh, my God! Someone who has been a political politician now gives an opinion on other policies, and this must not even be debated, is credible until the end. It's true! How credible is that?Oh, my God! Strangely enough, I'll start giving opinions about everyone else, and that'll be credible. Do you realize that the moment he speaks — because politics has been politically set up — about other policies, about conflicts of interest, and that the very way that this composition of the anti-corruption commission has been called is in some way systemic corruption? Pretty embarrassing thing, isn't it, if you turn it this way? But this needs to be looked at slightly differently, on the side, as Europe sees us. By the way, you won't find such an institution anywhere in Europe. Thus, it is said: This must not be discussed or, for example, a judgment, a court — it must not be debated! Figo! In each textbook from abroad – you have them down, in the library, I can bring them if you like – or in our constitutional law textbooks it is nice to say that the debate on any institution, including the judgments of the courts, in Parliament and everywhere else is even the criterion of the democracy of each country. If it is said in Slovenia that this should not be discussed, this means that we are no longer a democratic country. If one of these committees, which I mentioned earlier, is now investigating whether someone on one of the Tribunals has said something critical about it and that is why the police already have an investigation, then this really proves that we are no longer a democratic state, but a police state. That is why we need such investigators, because what we are touching is the essence of the mechanisms, how Slovenia, from a fantastic position that has become an example to all countries in transition, has become something that Europe sees as a failed exot, as a patient at best. Those who hate us see us as future prey and just want the transition left to be in power for as long as possible because they will get as much loot as possible. This is a sad story about Slovenia, and that is why we need this investigator. What does this investigator really involve? In particular, it includes the possibility to spread at least one part of the truth to people who cannot get it in the mainstream media in Slovenia. This lies down to the level of children so that children are abused! What was the first line of the Patria cartoon? "Janshe's government has decided to buy armor 8x8." Figo! What a fat lie! Anton Rop, president of the LDS, committed himself to the purchase of arms many years earlier in London. There is a document about this – I can bring it, if you like, numbered, signed, I have a copy – without Parliament's prior consent. Slovenia began to arm itself because of the transition left, even in an unconstitutional way. It's very interesting, isn't it, if you once know the facts, but it's not in Slovenian mainstream media. It's a whole bunch of lies. This is why this investigator is important – that people once understand that there is a need for a critical distance to what is served by the mainstream media because they do not have it at the moment. Then what happened yesterday, when it broke out that for 10 years the transition left lied when we warned that there would be damages that would go beyond every reasonable limit and the ability of this country to drive it in the wrong way, and aggressively rejected all offers of agreements, all possible solutions, insults – I was measured by the liar. Those dishes made me sound like a liar. That I was a storyteller, I listened from the government. But yesterday we talked about the compensation law, nothing else. By the way, your government's minister was talking about a billion euros. Do you know what a billion euros is for this poor country?Oh, my God! What does this mean for health care, for education, for the quality of people's lives?Oh, my God! Where have you all been?Oh, my God! I'll raise my voice one more time! Where are the media?Oh, my God! When it comes to a billion, that's when it's quiet. Before that, there was room for manoeuvre and we could have agreed a long time ago, we could have found solutions, and these could have been taken away in circumstances that would have been more favourable for Slovenia to correct the injustice to all who had ever been wronged. And to make sure that someone does not take advantage of Slovenia’s once assault or calculus or conscious violation of the law. Now it's all in one gould inside. But people don't get a chance to know about this. People don't even have a chance to know the truth anymore. That is why these investigators are so precious, because this story, ladies and gentlemen, is the story of how Slovenia got into the current situation. When some people were given a job, they had previously made it possible to privatize – it was no longer a public interest, but rather a private interest, for a minimum amount of money, that then a small part of what the country sold to them was more expensive to sell to a foreigner. Then there is this kind of business here, read: clean places, by the way. For an ordinary citizen, it's a clean place and nothing else. Systemic corruption at the highest level that institutions do not talk about, but Parliament should not open it according to your opinion. Then someone comes in and yells at me about how they went to work because of this. What about those jobs that he opened, where these armors were then made up, and where, as far as I know, a few people from Koroška worked — that was forgotten, wasn't it? By the way, in both cases it would be a foreign project, because what was a rag other than an Austrian Steyr cop? It's a little neat, but that's what it was -- it was about old technology. In this case, it's a new one. Ask everyone who used each other in Afghanistan. They asked if they could drive around with Patrio because it's so much more comfortable and so much more reliable and safe to use, but it's a side story right now. The point is that this has made us all poorer. And there's something important about this story. This story exposes one of the worst of the sacred cows of the transition left, which over and over 20 years shows how the transition left would prefer to lubricate only butter on bread, and that ugly right buys guns and wants money for cannons and the like. Who's already decided to buy it? Aja, Tone Rop, LDS - Transition left! Who decided to buy armor 8x8 and then made a commitment to the international public?Oh, my God! The LDS government and the others from the transition left! The government of Janez Janša inherited this and was obliged by international obligations to carry out it! She then carried out the invitation to tender in a transparent way — to seek out offers. How much more of the truth we see in the media every day is left of it? I experienced this myself when, in the previous term, the commission of inquiry was put in place to lead it, and it was said, "No, you were involved!" Because I once ran the SDS world and we discussed exactly what an individual thing means for development, and we found that, in both cases, it was possible to collect as much from public funds as possible for foreign companies. In both cases, this would be done here – it is likely to be about the same. But everything else is criteria that we don't even know or discuss, because it's an army matter, and the military has decided as it is. But since we used to talk about this at a certain meeting of the world, it was supposed to be infected and inappropriate to run such an investigator. Yeah, sure. How nice it is to do a circus when you have to put something under a table that doesn't fall into a transition left. It's a pretty embarrassing thing to start a frank conversation about. I am not surprised that the ticks there are emptying, for bad conscience is a bad thing — that was the first sentence I started with. By the way, some of the stories about weapons in Slovenia, which were thrown at the first government in Slovenia, were related to the then president, not to the government, but most people were not able to read it anywhere because they did not have these opportunities in a media space like Slovenia. It's a little awkward. And of course, if you repeat one lie a thousand times, it's true. This is why these investigators are of vital importance because they are exposing the core of how it has come to be in Slovenia not only that we are not the first among the transition countries, but we are literally the last country in which transition has failed at all and where the question is just how much worse it will be, which is the saddest of all. Then the private banks, which are accidentally linked to Forum 21 – are rescued again with this circle affected by this parliamentary investigation. There it will be unlimited, all covered with taxpayers’ money — no problem. Those who warn that this country is unsustainable will probably be insulted again. In time to see what time it is, there will be silence, just as there was excruciating silence yesterday. Only one central media – radio – in Slovenia was able, after what I could verify, to announce that for so many years it was a lie that no compensation would be available and that those who lied should now pay them. Because they have rejected every possibility of making things right in time, so that they are just as much as possible and compatible with some modern law. Now everything's thrown into the same basket, it's going straight through, and things are going to go across the board. That's what the minister himself said. By the way, in the law that you confirmed yesterday that it was the right basis, you are removing all the obsolete hands that you referred to before, you are considering some flat-rate and, in addition, lawsuits in unlimited possibilities. It is now just a matter of a solution with which no one is satisfied, not those touched, not all others, but at least those who once fought for independent Slovenia because they feel humiliated. By the way, whoever forgot, the whole story with the so-called erasure, which is not deleted in the sense that Europe understands, began to apply when Slovenian independence was about to be discredited by how to shoot people in the back of Holmac, and I don't know what else it was that touched, and it turned out to be an untruth. What's true, what we all know, is that System Technology was once sold out for minimum money, for funny money, given what this business was all about, to some private person. That this privateer sold a small portion of this for more money immediately abroad — interestingly, where was any anticorruption commission or whatever it was then said? The embarrassing thing is that the brother of the one who led it, Mr. Kos, was in on this story. That explains a lot. Then the question is, what was the result? By the way, in 6x6 armors, which were ordered in a similar way, I don't know if you know that the mountain was a mistake, that they knocked down the whole chassis, that it was a machine gun, and all along and through. Some of them have never been able to learn as much as I could from publicly available military reports. It's a pretty awkward situation, especially because 8x8 armored people wanted to give the same company the same way. That's very interesting, I must say. Today this is advocated and this should not be opened because it is too divisive for whom arms transactions have been committed, and it is confidently for anyone on this side, but it is fully accepted as an international obligation by the Government of the Transitional Left under the leadership of Tonet Ropa. The first one made a personal commitment, even in a constitutionally questionable way, because he made a commitment before he had the consent of the competent body of the National Assembly or of the National Assembly, which is absolutely necessary under our legislation and constitutional order. So who's the weapon in Slovenia? How much is this consistent with what is now being indoctrinated even to children and is being abused on RTV Slovenia? Then the director of RTV Slovenia tells you that no one will interfere with the program. No one interferes with the program, but if someone obviously violates the law, someone has to warn them, and it is certainly also the legislator who has the right and the right to warn. If someone violates the law — you know that I happen to know the law quite well — it is necessary to react if no one else reacts. When these stories are revealed, how money has been spilled, and who has actually made individual decisions, then it is likely that there will be a lot of other glare if not all of this comes upon the wall of silence again. But let's hope it doesn't. This nervousness, which was previously present on the opposite side, makes me aware that it is a matter for everyone to understand. There are some similar stories. But they'd probably be harder to explore, and this one's simple, obvious. Most of the material on this is also available. There is much to be learned then, including that things were showing up in a completely wrong way when it came to talking about who was supposed to be corrupt in Slovenia. The Austrian judge, after what I could read in the public media, and not ours, did not talk about those who were convicted of us, but about Mr Juret Cekuti, which is a very funny information. Jure Cekuta was a personal friend of Janez Drnovska, and Mr Gregor Golobič himself once declared on my committee that he was at his home several times. By the way, Drnovsky and I shared a hobby, and there was something else. So these are very interesting things, but they lead in a completely different direction than we do in public opinion. In the end, institutions are also being abused in order for this opinion to be confirmed, as everyone talks about. I share an opinion, too, if you like, practically all the lawyers. In this case, I even agree with Matt's Crime. The judgment you're all repeating so vehemently will fall. The question is, where? I believe that they do not hope to let it go to the European institutions and that it will fly away sooner, but it is good to mix the protruding story. In order for a little of this fog to go away, it is necessary to accept this investigator to show where the roots of the whole story are — somewhere in the financial interests of the lobby around the former LDS, which today, as we have said several times, has been qualified, and several times more will happen. In order to prepare the terrain for their new levies, he cries out all the time about how we need new faces and new customers. There is nothing new about Slovenia. It's a joke about that story. In Slovenia, there are only one and the same things that try to be put under the carpet and the desire of all those who have not been present in any of the disputed matters is that this would be clarified once and for all to give people the opportunity to know what is true and what is not true. People have the right to know, and people have the right to know what is in the public interest – who damaged public property, who sold it at the price, how these stories went, and why today, when they pay the Factor Bank and what else, taxpayers also pay part of these stories. I'm afraid this story isn't finished yet. This is in the pockets of one and the same, those who have a mouthful of social and social states, but when it comes to intervention in guaranteed salaries, as it did yesterday, it is done without the consent of the social partners. It's a real state. That is why I am always talking about the transition left, because when it comes to the interest of capital, "left-wing" in Slovenia is over. That's when the bonds of comrades and friends begin. And then there are friends in bankruptcy, there are friends in banks, and there are friends elsewhere. To at least show up a little or, if you want, pour some pure wine, we need this investigator, and we probably need some more. So all those who say we wouldn't open it, I ask: why not? Is there something on your mind? I have a clear conscience. I would open it, I want to open it, I want to open it, and I have that right. That is why I am also a signatory, and I would suggest that you consider what people have the right to know and whose interest we are here at all. I claim that we are in the public interest and that all the state and public administration exist to protect the public interest, to serve it, to serve people, but not to cover up stories about how some, forgive the expression, have made a pig rich at the expense of this poor country, left behind a minus which is then economically called a privatisation hole. That's what was stolen, by the way. So today, we all live worse together than we could, and worse yet, these stories continue to drag on and continue. They are only left, just as some political parties are left there on the transition left. From one hard core to another, the upper face is replaced and it's said: this is something new. People fall back on it, they say something new again, and they fall back on it. This game can go indefinitely in this media position, but always get the same. This interest is one and the same — so that these things do not open up, what was said earlier. And it's important to open up, because people have a right to know. At a time when no one in this House will be afraid to open up such a darkness, I will believe that Slovenia is indeed a democratic state – and when the media report on all of them in the same way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. At least two things I need to mention again and emphasize. The first is opening or not opening, as my colleague Grimes used to say. It seems very pointless to open up such a topic — without protecting anyone, because it is right to get rid of these things, but to clear up such things that have some weight, they are probably other law enforcement, court, police, and so on. If we start to open this, and when we start to open Bavčar and any other political contraptions, through which your party is likely to have something, then the National Assembly can only deal with it. Demagosko, Comrade Chernač? Is that demagic? This is a very practical, very pragmatic question, and a position or view under the magnifying glass of what was happening in Koroška. No demagogies, I merely pointed out very practically the things and problems that Koroška experienced in breaking the contract or writing about the intention to make eight-wheelers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u137	Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I told you before, Mr. Zanoskar, where your demagogies were. She was talking about the fact that the Systemic Technology or the Viator & Vector went to bankruptcy, which was the fault of John Janša. I told you that if then the Robbins Government Systemic Technology for a significantly higher, 4-fold, 5-fold higher price sold directly to a foreign partner, the Systemic Technology in Koroška would still be working today. I would expect you to be more loud and more interested in your places and for your people than you were at the time. You've linked Mr. Bavčar to the SDS. I'd rather connect you to the SDS than Mr. Bavčar. As far as his political definition is concerned, I finally remember that he was a member of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you. The next one reported for discussion is mag. Ivan Vogrin, but I don't see him in the hall. Then comes Mr Jožef Jerovska's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In response to previous reactions, let me first tell Mr Zanoskar and everyone that anything you open is useful. I'm not afraid either, I have a clear conscience, and I'm 18 years of politics, and no one can tell me about one euro. I don't understand such a panic. Especially in the grips of Positive Slovenia there is such unrest today, and you predict such stupid consequences. Mr. Zanoškar, you said it would be a source of new hatred and dispersion again. I've been on a lot of investigative committees, and I don't hate anybody, and I have good relationships with everyone. Do you think if we clear up any bullshit from here, any thieving behind this business, we're gonna have to hate each other? Maybe someone had some money, and now they're nervous, maybe. Mr Čehovin spoke with such a grill about the magnificent LDS that led this and, among other things, said, "I can say no results in advance." He has divine abilities — he knows in advance! But apparently this is a prediction of total sabotage of government services and it has already been ordered that the LDS must be defended to the last breath. Here you are saying that you will prevent in all possible ways that you will probably use the same maneuvers as you replaced the Presidents with Patria – although now the Constitutional Court intervened and showed that your rude manipulations were how to prevent the truth. You don't have that weapon any more than you had in your previous term. But the defense of this failed LDS – here you are the same, they have already failed, and you will fail, you go down like I don't know what. That makes you feel the same. For this matter, which we are introducing today, the Commission of Inquiry, it is clear from the aircraft that it was corruption, that it was a robbery of the country, deliberately intended to rob the country. At that time, he sold System Technology for a lousy price to Rob Pavčku, a friend of his. Immediately – everything was pre-arranged – sold to Americans, to Austria’s Steyr a 20% share of Systemic Technology and obtained significantly more – earned. It's thieving over thieving. Why didn't they talk to Steyre? Because they were friends. Because at that time the instrumentalisation of the country was perfect for these friends in business, politics and tycoons. With these deals at the time with Pavčko, I tell you – organized and agreed more widely – the foundations for the tycunization of Slovenia were set. That's when the Factor Bank started, and there were all these directors. Even though this business has failed, in this context, this hat of people has drawn hundreds of millions from the country into its tax haven accounts, from which they are still buying and controlling Slovenia and bribing people and officials. Who's Mr. Pavček? Now you weep for him, even though he spent the factory in Koroška, in his pocket he pulled the money — the state gave it to him — and then he put Viator & Vector in bankruptcy. Remember those horrendous pictures of workers, drivers, Viator & Vector mechanics that Mr. Pavček is through – I also know that he is a great friend of Mr. Jankovic and had all the support – did he spit?Oh, my God! He spat over these workers, after the bankruptcy, and the other day he and his men set up businesses. From where money — from tax havens, of course, where it was safely stored until then. Let's ask ourselves, where do these people get that kind of money in public service? Mr Pavček, the Director of the Taluma, Mr Toplek, and also Mr Rob, are strangely connected. We know that Toplok is a member of Forum 21 and has run for Social Democrats in the last elections. The son of a thief built the largest photovoltaics with Toplek, I don't know how many power plants on the state land in Kidrich. I know they certainly didn't give anything for that. My employees tell me they had to do this photovoltaics from the factory in the immediate vicinity. All of them were factory workers. I wonder how much they paid, how skillful it was to build everything from the state factory. But I wonder if the sons of these politicians, directors and tycoons are such economic geniuses that young people are 22 years old and can invest. Are they really the greatest geniuses?Oh, my God! Like Jankovic – in a few years he operated on millions of euros, the only graduation his father had to buy. Only prom. Otherwise, he's a genius. It was the only place where it broke down — and the prom had to be bought! You're crying about these relationships, and now you're so nervous about anything coming out. The Czech authorities say it won't be any good because the state will sabotage. Such people will have to be carried away if the truth and justice are prevented at every turn. The second thing that is happening with these investigative commissions and also this one – in every way possible, you try to discredit the investigative commissions, and I am a better history of the National Assembly, and I know that they have had positive effects. If Pukšič’s commission were not in Elan, he would have been tycunized by then — everything was ready. Then it stopped out of fear, but you gave up the new tycoons – the Corsettes and those who have re-exhausted Elan. They're just your people, ladies and gentlemen. The Vič-Holmec Commission of Inquiry, which I led – without this, would be sent to the Hague tribunal for war criminals. That was the point. At the same time, when all arms purchases are always discredited for the Slovenian Army, then the self-sustaining – this is an eternal attempt by left-wingers, the discreditation of independent Slovenia, independence, jugonostalgia, how to succeed. At this time, you are now restoring former communism in this country, consciously. That this is how it works – some journalists are also involved in this anti-propaganda discrediting these investigative commissions. I have to make that clear. This discredit and this goes so far as to apply to me an incredibly surprising and dirty way of discrediting the independence, the soldiers who participated at the time, and those who organised the protection and guarantee of the declaration of independence. I must say in this place – now I have one chance – that it is just ahead of the last 2011 elections [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u141	Mr. Jerovšek, let me remind you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u142	I believe you're in pain. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u143	No, it's not about the pain. This is about me leading the session and I want to warn you to stay with the topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u144	You will see that I am in the dark – the word arms trade will be used. Just before those elections, a statement appeared in Del for the week or month of the Hribar Memorial – I was amazed – which read: "The arms trade..." – it was meant to be self-sustaining – "... has the same symbolic and valuable significance for Slovenia as postwar killings." Think about it. Work's a big story. I publicly call on Mrs Hribar to say how many thousands of Slovenians have been killed in the arms trade if it has the same meaning. Is human life as little worth as mere embezzlement, misdemeanors, and crimes that have also occurred in the arms trade?Oh, my God! Are thousands and thousands of people killed so worthless that it has the same meaning?Oh, my God! You act like it's the same thing. Nobody goes to Ormož, where they've been tortured after the war in the children's camp, for babies. It's not a crime for you and it's not worth remembering. I also ask, on purpose, "What does Mr. Husband Tina Hribar say to such a statement by Mrs. Remembrance Hribar?"
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u145	Mr Jerovšek, let me remind you once again that the persons you mention cannot answer your questions in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u146	It's a shame to have the paper publish such nonsense at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u147	I ask you to respect the people you mention because they cannot answer your questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u148	This statement of the week was about the same time that Ambassador Marta Kos published a comprehensive ad against our party and was rewarded this year for paying for that ad with an ambassadoric city. You see how these things are connected. Unfortunately, she stated in the official post that she would unfortunately win Angela Merkel this year and make it a disgrace to Slovenia because she had politically involved herself in the German elections, which is rude and unacceptable for the ambassador. These abuses, in what ways you prevent and use everything, even RTV and child abuse are instrumentalized in this matter. In that incriminated broadcast, the authors said that Janševa’s government had taken a decision on the purchase of 135 armoured men. A lie on a square! The Robbery Government first adopted a resolution with Mr Pavčko in Parliament and a letter of intent a few days later. The conclusions were taken under the government of Rob because hundreds of millions had been seen in their pockets! But in Infodrome it's attributed to the government, and it's child abuse! Majda Potrat showed that she had no relation to child abuse because she had prevented the debate on child abuse. I'm not surprised. The weapon also proves that you are insensitive to the fact that even children could have been killed without a rooster, without empathy for it. On the Committee on Culture where this debate was prevented [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u149	Look, Mr. Jerovšek. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u150	No, no! And that's exactly what this is about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u151	No, it's not about that, and once again, I'm warning you that if you don't respect my warnings, I'm gonna take your word away.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u152	Mr Weber, it is falsely written that this business, which we want to investigate today in the commission of inquiry, has been approved by the Yanshe government and has adopted conclusions in Parliament! There was a lie and a lie! That's why you stopped the debate! Mr Filli, who refused to participate in the debate, wrote that all the content was correct. But it's an original, horrible lie! Instrumentized, you ordered customers there on RTV. You can see that, all the connections are visible, transparent. Then let him deal with you on a committee! That's why you're in so much pain with this investigation committee. As a result, colleagues and colleagues, stop saying that any investigative committee is bad. This is a disgrace to every Member of the world! The classic institution of parliamentaryism! Nowhere in the world do such Members speak, unfortunately only in this deluded Slovenia, which is now before the financial collapse. You know, this situation in banks is related to this matter that we're investigating today. In state affairs, hundreds of millions are counted. Factor bank and Probank then started trading and working – and the tycoons themselves, the tycoons themselves! Now, Mr. Zanoskar, you say others are guilty of starving children. There was the result of Pavčko and Robb's tycoonization. That's where it happened because the state money poured into private pockets. However, if that state money remained in the state nursery, we could develop new programmes from this. You're poisoning the Corinne again! Now we should be telling the truth, you understand, and not defending this rotten LDS with all the ticks! [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, you're the same. I'm afraid you're the same. You're going to go down, too, which is obvious. Ladies and gentlemen, every commission of inquiry in Parliament brings some positive results. Today's debate has brought this because you can see your panic because you're connected people here. It's not like Misic went to be the most influential director. That's not the case. It's Jankovic's work. The spiders and the themes were always connected in all segments. For this reason, it is a disgrace to any Member who says that parliamentary investigations are a flawed parliamentary institution. He's embarrassing himself in the long run. He is not worthy to say that he is an apostle chosen from the people. I hope that you will come to terms with mistakes and that you will come to your senses on this side, that you will not prevent the truth, that you will not prevent the disclosure of corruption in this country, because those who say it are advocates that all corruption remain undiscovered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you. Procedurally, Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u154	Dear President! Personally, and probably some other colleague in Positive Slovenia, I am trying to tolerate this debate as much as possible with regard to the investigative committee, whose purpose is obviously merely to disable the normal functioning of the coalition, which should deal with the serious problems that plague our country, to take appropriate measures. The purpose of this commission is obviously only to redistribute the Slovenian nation, to warm up some things in return, to accuse each other, etc. But what I am trying to say is that, specifically in this debate, my colleague Jerovšek has insulted, accused, made false accusations and false claims about people who are not present in this Chamber and cannot defend themselves in any way. Knowing that he was protected by his parliamentary immunity, he abused his post as a Member of Parliament. Please, and this is my procedural proposal that in such cases, when it comes to human rights violations, you should use your powers to ensure that a Member who is thus violating the Rules of Procedure and discussing so widely outside the context, although in his well-known manner he wishes to include all this in the subject, take the floor and thus prevent such work, such discredit of people who are not present, and such interference in their rights, personal rights, from continuing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you, too. I think we were in the hall together. My purpose was really only and only when I reminded Mr Jerovská of his implementation, but it is necessary to show respect and respect for those who cannot defend themselves in this debate. I hope that he will take this into account in his implementation in the future. Procedurally, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I have not always been here in the hall, but I was not satisfied with the implementation of my colleague Jerovsk. Not so much for himself, but mainly for his implementation when he said that Slovenia was lost. I would ask — he probably went a little too far in that emotional outpouring he had. I am convinced that Slovenia is not lost and that Slovenians are not lost. You can look at the magnetogram and see what you've said – in lost Slovenia. If that's what you really meant, then there's no help for you. But if that was in some euphoric expression, please apologize to all the Slovenians and to us in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you for your proposal. Mr. Jerovšek, do you have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u158	Procedurally, yes. First of all, Mr President, to you because I don't accept your views. May I quote the statements that were the statements of the month talking about the arms trade? Can I do that, or will you end this piece of democracy that still exists? Are you going to take this off, tie our mouths? I didn't say anything like that, things that wouldn't hold. But to Mr. Kavtičnik: I may be a bad expression, about delusions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u159	Mr Jerovšek, you have a procedural proposal. You don't have a chance to replicate. What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u160	My suggestion is that you, as President, do not put an end to democracy here, to remain a place of public expression, and that those things that are relevant – what I had to ask Mrs Remembrance of Hribar about the value equation in a public way. Because it's a terrible statement. I'll be in touch with the Boxman, too, because he attacked me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u161	If you don't have a procedure, Mr Jerovšek, I'll turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u162	I suggest that Mr Kavtičnik, if he is in the hall – says he has not heard but must attack. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, you have led many Slovenians astray, and today you are trying to talk about delusions – that it is a delusion if corruption is investigated. That's how you misbehave and make Slovenians seductive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u163	Mr Jerovšek, regarding the procedural proposal not to allow the public opinion of individuals to be quoted – this is not true. But it is a problem when you try to present your view of this quote. You introduced him in such a way that he who had this quote could not defend himself. If we went into the entire text, we'd come up with completely different conclusions than you've been giving yourself. And that's the problem with these discussions. So I warned you that what you're trying to present as your aspect of that quote is inappropriate. Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I strongly hope that those who hold the meetings will also be accompanied by the meeting during the time when your deputy is chairing the meeting. Colleagues from the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, as well as your Member Mrs Ljubica Jelusic, spoke about many things, about related content in this commission of inquiry. Your predecessors or your political companions have also spoken of persons who are not here. There's no Janša government here, and there's no Janša here, and everyone's been talking about these people. I propose that, before you begin to hold the meeting, you take a look at the course of the meeting before that, and that all the Presidents measure the debate of Members with the same vats, you allow for debate. I don't think there's any reason to stop the debate or quote on the subject of related matters. Much of what has been said is directly related to these things, from the event that took place when Rob promised, to the event when this matter was processed and signed, and to the many later implications that have occurred as a result. You have not warned anyone, neither you nor your predecessors, that this debate is beyond discussion, except for Comrade Jerovska. If you want to or will set standards that no one who cannot respond can be mentioned here, then you will set different standards, such as those of the National Assembly. You'll set different standards, but keep them all the same. Today, I don't know, someone is talking about a period of 10 years ago, about connections that aren't there, about people that aren't there. On the other hand, you cannot or should not talk about those involved in the project. Such a way of leading the debate and interfering with the debates of Members is, in my opinion, inappropriate, unworthy for the National Assembly, for the level of communication in the National Assembly, especially because it is distinctly divided into whether the debater comes from the coalition or from the opposition, in particular from the SDS. I propose that, in the management of meetings, you focus on the same wavelength and that at least the same point of the agenda be discussed and that all Members be given the opportunity to discuss on the same terms and conditions [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Comparative mode. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you for your procedural proposal. At the same time, I must warn you again and remind you: each President is responsible for the holding of the meeting, and it has been led by a Vice-President who, in your opinion, has apparently allowed some debates that were contrary to what I have pointed out. The fact is that I am also pleased to organise a consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, where we can agree on how we will lead the debates in the National Assembly. I'll tell you again that there's no problem when you point someone out and quote someone. Secondly, when you try to present your point of view or even accuse someone, and if it does not have the opportunity to give its position, it is far from what I think should be present in our Parliament. But it is not really up to the president to the extent possible, but it is up to the one who is discussing it in this way. I really think it is worth talking about whether we are able to lead discussions in a way that is manageable and not offensive. Above all, the problem is that in some cases these debates are offensive, and if they are offensive to those who cannot defend themselves, it is unacceptable in my opinion. If the vice-presidents have failed to take this into account, I will certainly have a conversation with them. However, whether I make this conversation or not, each of us must be somewhat self-critical of how he will say and how he will present it. It is only in this way that it is possible to drive the meetings substantially easier. Mr. Tanko, can I help you? Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for this reference. However, in the National Assembly we are persons who can afford to interpret Latin quotations, Slovenian proverbs, and who can also allow and allow interpretation of texts. I do not see how, after this model that you have just said, you should hold a meeting or hold a debate, that none of the Members should quote anything and say their views on a particular matter. This is not the purpose of the debate. Then you can call a telephone vote on the meeting and we will vote in this way. The debate of Members shall be admissible. In accordance with Article 82, it is not bound to the instructions. He can tell you how he feels about any content, address, or anything. That's why we're meeting here. That's exactly why we're meeting. In this way, the interpretation of the things that are happening in the National Assembly is, in my view, inappropriate for Members. In line with what you have said, each Member could only read a few pages from what we have tabled for the National Assembly meeting to order a parliamentary inquiry, and that is what is in line with what has been tabled. I shouldn't have done anything else. If you have missed many accusations made by Members of the Positive Slovenia – your lady has also said many things, which I do not agree with because I have a different view of the same thing as her, other data, etc. Then I don't know what the meetings of the National Assembly or the working bodies are all about. What's this about? Date, I don't know, 25 June 1991 can have a very different meaning for a lady than for me. It is her right to have and to speak. Many of the other things that Mr Jerovšek discussed can be judged in the same way or measured by the same criterion. But if he was quoting an thesis from a philosopher or I don't know what it is, he could quote it and say what he thinks of it. As some iron is not the same as human life, I deeply agree with it. If others do not, it is your problem, but I strongly agree with Jerovsk in this area and I think he is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u167	The agreement that we should not be offensive in our deliberations is obviously very difficult. I would like to point out that we must not be offensive to one another and, above all, to those who cannot defend themselves. This is what I wanted to point out, and I think it is very important to follow this direction in future discussions as well. The next debater who could get a word is Mr Borut Ambrožič, but I do not think he is in the Chamber right now. The word can be obtained by Mr Robert Hrovat. I don't see him either. The next panellist is Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. When I listened to the introduction of the Member of Positive Slovenia and Mr Zanoskar's debate, I can only conclude that nothing has changed in the philosophy of understanding the state's operation since 2002, 2003 and 2013. Then there was customerism, and gentlemen who performed in the property of Positive Slovenia were also now defending customerism. For they accused the government — I don't know what it was at the time, John Janša, that she would not be offended — of doing an act that prevented development in Koroz. To the extent of the anti-dumping measures, the subcontractor at Patria was also Gorenje. There the matter was tested, there was work done, but the way it happened at the time, and the way the projects are being solved now, by voting and agreeing to recapitalisation or the guarantee at the Factor Bank and Probanka, is exactly the same. In this case, the role of System Technology and Viator & Vector is exactly the same as the role of Factor Bank or Probank. There is no difference in substance. Also in this particular case, in 2003, a letter of intent on the assignment of a business made a kind of guarantee statement, first for one part of the deal, and then covered the whole deal, with a 300-million-euro deal. Now we have a Probank and Factor Bank recovery package that weighs about 400 million. But in this substantive approach, there is absolutely no difference in content. If there is a ruling policy, this government is only able to save the economy in this way, then we can be very worried, and it is clear to me why there is and there is such a battle, who will be in the individual society, who will be in the individual environment, and what subsidies, what state guarantees, state guarantees will all be directed to an economic society. I think this case is completely flawed, such an approach. The economy is the one that should live the rest of the system. We're supposed to be powering ourselves out of it, but we're in reverse. From everything we collect to some companies operating on friendly principles, customeristic matters, we return money from the budget to business, and from there no one controls and things flow forward. This was the case in the case of these two banks, and also in the case of the system technique business. What is a problem in all this is – and this is what the former Minister should know – that the Patria project has been evaluated by the expert commissions of the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces. None of the politicians were in these expert groups. No one who has identified matters has found that there has been any call, any pressure on these people to decide on these projects. They must have decided professionally. None of these are in the process, but they chose to follow these criteria, which they checked, a vehicle called Patricia. No one has brought any proceedings against these persons, and even in this procedure, which has now been initiated, mentioned by some Members, that it has ended with a judgment that is not yet binding, there has been no communication between those who are convicted and those who have made an expert assessment or expert comparison of tenders. Interesting! The only two who were in the process were the most responsible for this project. These are Mr Erjavec, Minister of Defence, and Mr Gutman, Chief of Staff, and they were both forgiven. Those two who could influence the Commission's decisions and take decisions were forgiven. All that's going on is just to make it go somewhere else. Colleagues said that those who participated in the decision on how the project would work and to whom it would be allocated were richly rewarded with functions in the European Union. Even the one who sold the stake he bought for a ten-timer. 80 % bought for the amount of x, and then three times the lower share sold for three times the amount, for nine times the profit, and went bankrupt. It is amazing how some successful directors, rewarders, carriers, I don't know, economic initiatives, initiatives, presidents of the Chamber of Commerce, economic chambers can go bankrupt in this way. With so much added value, they sold what they bought and eventually lost everything. I believe that this investigative committee is necessary. All the circumstances in preparing this business need to be clarified. Public authorities should also be asked what was going on at the time. I hope that the Commission will have very interesting results. As regards the order, we have given our signatures and we hope that after the conclusion of the debate you will announce the order of the Commission of Inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you. The next one has the word Dr. Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope that you will not mind if I react to some of the performances of my colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, although this will not be directly related to the topic that we are dealing with today at point 22, because they have opened up some of the things that I think should be reacted to by the public. I expect that, as part of our work in the investigative commission, we will be able to respond to a number of dilemmas that have been raised today. I hope that, if not the other, the contribution of this parliamentary commission of inquiry will be, at least, to clarify some of the concepts that concern, for example, the question of invitation to tender, public procurement and other matters relating to defence and confidential procurement. The question, for example, of who is the one who decided to buy the eight-wheelers will be such that we will have to examine it very precisely and on dates. Today some of you mentioned some promises of mags. Robbery. I don't know any public or secret documents to talk about it. Apparently, you have some papers talking about the background of this purchase. But I can tell you which was the first public document in this area. This public document was adopted in the National Assembly on 13 July 2004. I have already mentioned it, this is the Resolution on the General Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Army. I'm not used to being mean, but in this case, I was really interested in how you voted back then. I must say that, with all the awareness that I do not know which was behind this deal that was written in the resolution, many, including with us today, voted in favour of that resolution. At that time, as members of the National Assembly, you insisted that the Slovenian Army's fighting character should be built and that this fighting character would also be linked to eight-wheel armored vehicles, the purpose of which would be to build a medium battalion fighting group in the coming years. I'm not telling you that you voted in favour of that resolution. In fact, I could say that you should be commended for supporting it, because you have in fact supported the building of the Slovenian Army's martial character, which, by the way, has now disappeared in the "great" debates about what the future of the Slovenian defence organisation will be. The word of the great courts is called, because there is no debate on it at all. After July 13, 2004, when you endorsed the resolution in the National Assembly, a letter of intent was signed on August 20, 2004 which, I stress, is not a contract of business, is a letter of intent. Its title reads: "About the cooperation of the state industry of the Republic of Slovenia in the provision of equipment for the Slovenian armed forces". The text of this letter of intent also later states that home academic and technological knowledge, together with the Viator & Vector group and in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Army, in order to meet the needs and requirements of the Slovenian Armed Forces, will attempt to produce such a product together on the basis of the acquired licence and integration of all this knowledge in accordance with NATO and the European Union standards. I understand that, as I said before, there are many allies among us that state-owned transactions or defence-forces must be placed in the hands of others to buy weapons, and there are also some allies or discussers or those who think that when it comes to equipping domestic defence forces, however, the business must also be given to the domestic defence industry. But that's how it was thought in 2004. Today it is no longer easy to think about it. However, I must tell you that Article 296 of the Treaty of Rome of the European Union still applies and says that no country can impose decisions on its defence or defence industry. In 2004, this European Community or the European Union established the European Defence Agency. Here is now the answer to why Janša's government did not go after the 2004 elections by direct order to one or the other company when it wanted to acquire eight-wheelers, but followed the recommendations of the European Defence Agency, which became a member of Slovenia. However, it was recommended that defence and confidential procurement be published on the European Union portal, in particular if they exceed the 1.2 million euro deal. That business at the time was way above that number. But that was a recommendation that, and I respect that decision, Janša’s government then respected and then went on to issue a confidential order, not to negotiate directly the order of this deal with a single potential bidder. However, neither the procedure nor the direct negotiation nor the award of a confidential contract are tendering. In this regard, we need to come to our senses, professionally or otherwise, because we all need to understand what you have accepted in November 2012. Here is also a tribute to Janša’s government – I do not share the pessimism that he shared with us before, or spoke to a very pessimistic colleague of Puksic, when he said that nothing had happened during all these 22 years, which would help to ensure transparency of defence and other business. In 2012, Janševa's government brought forward long-standing negotiations on an important document that ensures greater transparency of defence business to the end by means of a document called the Law on Public Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security, published in the Official Journal on 21 November 2012. Progress has been made in terms of increasing transparency, ensuring rules applicable to procurement procedures, but in 2004 and even today, transactions involving defence, police and other matters, including intelligence, in this country, still take place in accordance with the rules of defence and confidential procurement, where the invitation to tender, which some suggest or even have been written in a document, does not normally talk about or are not carried out in defence and confidential procurement. Dear colleague Tanko, who was also an ally of that 2004 resolution, says that the letter of intent was signed in 2003. I have to fix it – it was signed, I stress again, in 2004. He says that the Ministry of Defence or the Professional Commission, as the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces, decided on the subsequent selection of one of the bidders in the 8x8 project. Defence and confidential procurement shall be decided at the Ministry which issues such an order, but shall never be decided by the Ministry alone, but by those intentions, first on the intention of the contract and then on the actual execution of the contract, the decision or knowledge of the Interdepartmental Working Commission, which shall take care of the defence and confidential procurements. This Interdepartmental Working Group consists of representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Intelligence Service, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance and others. This is the government's inter-ministerial commission. Please, not only blame the Ministry of Defence, although, I apologize, I now defend what was your business in 2005, not what might have been right at the time, but at least after my own business or the business that Janša's government concluded in 2005, not spit with statements that do not. Once again, I would like to point out that the letter of intent is not a contract. He's talking about possible business, and here I'm also warning those colleagues between us who think that a letter of intent would in any case lead to business in Systemic Technology – not necessarily, things are changing. Throughout history, throughout the years following a political decision, things can also change in the international field. I am not capable of speculating what would have happened if the Systemic Technology had been sold directly to Steyr, because I am sure that we are now probably being laughed at abroad by those who were representatives of the US corporation General Dynamics, which is in the vast majority of Steyr's owners, and those who are representatives of the European defence industry, which are the minority owners of Patriye, but who were advocates of the interests that the European defence industry obtains business, not in Slovenia, but in the Balkans. It was not about 135 eight-wheelers in Slovenia, but about 600 to 700 eight-wheelers in the Balkans, and there is a lot of work to be done for such a business, so I am not surprised by the questions you are asking – who actually took advantage of it in some business. Those who signed a letter of intent that did not come true in the actual business doubt that they actually took advantage of the business. But I'm afraid someone else has taken advantage of Patrio's business, the one who takes part in the so-called unlawful judgment. But we all need to understand that this unjust judgment, if one day it is legal — you know what it means to deal with the patriarchs, for the Slovenian Army?Oh, my God! It means that the anti-corruption clause is activated because it is a judgment on corruption. When the anti-corruption clause is activated, the Slovenian Army will come to the point of nullity of the Patriage Treaty, losing those 30 floors that we literally sweated in the bloodstream when it was purchased or taken over. It's not true that there was a whole bunch of errors on systems 6x6 and there were no errors on systems 8x8. All new machines, all weapon systems, contain errors that need to be corrected. Even for the 8x8 system and its maintenance, it is now necessary to pay extra money at the Ministry of Defence, but I am afraid that we will lose this company, the Slovenian Army, to the 30th floor on which it has calculated to ensure its safety. Then what are we gonna have? We will have neither patriotic nor systemic techniques, nor fighting groups, nor the development of the Slovenian Army, nor its fighting character. Then what have we accomplished with all these things, with one job and another, and with criticism on all sides? Once again, I would like to draw attention to the issue of the invitation to tender. Although you think Janša's government launched a public tender in 2005, I must warn you that it has not been implemented. But I have to tell you that the Court of Auditors has found that the transaction it has concluded is legal. The Court of Auditors found that he was illegal, but did not say that he was illegal. It was implemented in accordance with the rules on defence and confidential procurement in force in 2004 and 2005. These rules haven't changed in any way. As for the sale of companies, state-owned enterprises, there is obviously a dilemma before us, which is also unresolved in the Slovenian public, to whom it is appropriate to sell state-owned enterprises, or to the locals – not to tell the tycoons – rich or foreign. I think we need to be more concerned about whether these transactions have been done in a fair, transparent manner and in a way that preserves jobs in our country when state property is sold. Systemic technique was sold under the law adopted in 1997 and that law was not amended in any way for later years when the Slovenian steel industry was sold. It is not true that the LDS government's tradition of selling state property has been interrupted by the Jansev government. By the same law, she sold SJ. What was the end of this tradition of government, I don't know which one? I would point once again to the problem of the impact of the defence industry on the national economy, which is hiding in this dilemma in 2004, and in particular in the dilemma, which is also recorded in the letter of intent on cooperation between the Slovenian state industry and the defence forces. What form of state property and which form of defence industry have a greater or better impact on the national economy? The pacifists would now say that it is unfair to talk about this because no defence industry is acceptable or acceptable, but I am convinced that the Slovenian defence industry, which was one of the most developed in the former common country and also contributed to Slovenian exports at the time, is well enough to be able to be the basis for one of the important sectors of the independent Slovenian state, but they are all together who managed state property – and I am not interested in who was in power, I am critical to all – they have made sure that today, when the issue of autonomy is also being raised in the field of security, the state has nothing to count on, except that from the empty budget it is no longer able to purchase any means to equip the Slovenian Army. The goal of those – that is, international capital – that were going to break these small national economies has come true. We are totally dependent on ensuring the safety of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you, too. The next debate would have been available for 9 seconds, this is Mrs Eva Irgle. But I don't think he wants to discuss it because he's not in the hall. Mr Zvonko Černač may also have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Not only in the area of the defence industry, respected Mrs Jelusic, but also in the area of the rest of the economy, in 99% of members of the left political province, have the so-called transition left made sure that the economy was destroyed or destroyed in that country. In those where they have not been successful so far, you will help them to continue this business under this government. This is a problem where you have to look in the mirror and wonder why and with what interests you've left them with. I believe that you, personally and also your political comrades sitting in these benches, have absolutely nothing to do with it, but through the political options you have supported, you have allowed them to do so. If these tycoons had not been allowed to do so, they would probably have survived and lived many of them today. If, in the meantime, measures had been taken to prevent them from doing so and, on the other hand, to provide a basis for the proper development of this economy, including the inclusion of healthy foreign capital, today would have a healthy arms industry, even if it were not in Slovenian ownership. The state budget would have significantly more impact than it has today, and people would have significantly more job opportunities, including in the case of Systemic Technology. Let me reiterate once again that if this sale had not occurred in 2003 to the then party comrade of Prime Minister Anton Rop, Mr Pavčko, at a low price, at the price of one armoured person, if this sale had happened directly to the one who had the licence and with all the other infrastructure in the background, the state budget would have received 9 times more resources, the company would have stood there today and would probably have been able to talk about equipping the Slovenian Army. But that didn't happen. Not because of Janez Janša or his government, but because of these decisions made by the government of Rob during that period. I do not know what is the problem of supporting the resolution on the long-term equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces on 13 July 2004. What is wrong with this support and what is the link between supporting this resolution, justifying the appropriate armament of the Slovenian Armed Forces and what we are talking about in this investigative commission? It is nice, however, that, unlike some of your friends who do not believe in it, especially that companion, who is the president of the Committee on Culture, said that the order for 135 armoured men was given by another government, not by Yanshev, about which they lied in some infamous national drawing. But the dates are also interesting, I have to say. In 2003, this sale of the Systemic technique Rop-Pavček takes place at a substantial low price in a relatively short period of time. A poor half a year later, there is a justification in the National Assembly through a resolution. The month after that, a letter of intent was signed in August to support this system-based business on the fact that it was known that the elections would take place in two months. There were elections, and the LDS knew she was losing her position to a chair under her feet. They were counting on losing power. They did everything they could to enable a multi-hundred - million - dollar business, which was owned by their client companion from taxpayers’ money. What happens then? Then another government comes along and says, "You can't do this at home, there's no known price, there's no known product, we're going into an international tender." We get, as you yourself said, 8 suitable potential manufacturers and send a tender to make an offer. We get two, we choose the best, and we get the cheapest. In no case was the Prime Minister involved, who is now being unlawfully convicted, although he was guilty of a virtual crime, but nevertheless. You yourself said that these procedures were decided by the inter-ministerial groups, the commissions. You have not mentioned anywhere that the Minister or Prime Minister would be directly involved in these proceedings. What is absurd is that the Minister in charge of this area has been acquitted in court, and the Prime Minister has been unlawfully convicted of the promise of an unknown gift in an unknown place by an unknown person in an unknown way. Now an additional flower in this explanation was evidently the one that the judge found that it was all because he was so skilled that he hid the evidence and could not be found. There's no way to find evidence in criminal proceedings, and we're condemning someone. Do you think that's a normal country? Probably not. I don't think any country sells its own company that manufactures some kind of weaponry technology in the same way as it did in the case of Systemic Technology. All the countries that have done so have done so by following national interests on the one hand and taking account of the maximisation of the financial effects set out in this Title. The first Janševa government, contrary to previous sales, sold state property in a transparent manner, including the Slovenian steel industry, including the General Navigation. Such prices as Bajuk did not reach any other government in any company, and the Court of Auditors found that it could reach an even higher price — interesting. There were tenders, there was an auction, the highest price auction, and the Court of Auditors found that an even higher price could be reached. Hello! Such decisions have also shown how credible this institution has been under the leadership of the former President. Sadly, many times there was a decision based on who it was. Let me finish. I think that, in spite of everything that has been said, we will have to focus on finding out why the government of Anton Ropa sold System Technology to Viator & Vector for an extremely low price, for a price of EUR 460 million, for less than EUR 2 million at the price of one armour, at the time that the company had contracts with the Slovenian Army alone for more than EUR 8 billion, for more than EUR 35 million, in the way that it sold to this private company, which it received at a significant price, to establish a basis for obtaining more than 100 million euros for eight-wheelers through a licence, without a call for a contract. Secondly, the question arises why this share of the System Technology in exchange for obtaining a licence for eight-wheelers was not sold directly by the then government to Steyr and would receive a 9-fold purchase, a license. The deal would be clean, no intermediaries would be here, and probably this company would still be alive today. It is then necessary to determine whether at the time of signature of the letter of intent, in August 2004, this product existed, which was discussed or virtual. In the context of the investigation, it is necessary to determine whether the international tender for the purchase of eight-wheelers — not to mention a public contract — is that the Ministry of Defence in 2005 called on those with the right products to issue tenders in a transparent manner. It's an international tender, it's not a public order. So whether this tender prevented Zdenek Pavčku's intentions after obtaining a multi-hundred million-dollar deal, because Patrie or Rotis' offer was about EUR 50 million lower than the System Technology offer, and consequently prevented what was clearly the main purpose of this deal – taking over the logistical giant Viator & Vector, which had previously been put into many smaller local businesses throughout Slovenia. It is also necessary to determine whether it was only due to the later decision of the Janša Government when Mors carried out this process for the acquisition of eight-wheelers on the basis of this international tender, where the offer of Systemic Technology was not selected, and the competitive offer of Finnish Patria, which led to the loss of multi-seven-million-million-dollar business to Viator & Vector or Zdenko Pavčku and, consequently, the intention of owning this company through taxpayers’ money – and more than apparently, this was the case – political persecution, on the one hand against cooperation with Patrio, and political and judicial action against the top representatives of the state or government. In conclusion, the question is whether this is essentially due to the prevention of the Taiwanese ownership of Viator & Vector with taxpayers' money. I think this investigative commission is going to have a relatively easy job. Everything we have in the documents, everything we have heard in the past days, weeks, months, years, tells us that this affair of Patria actually happened because, through an international tender, through the acquisition of two competitive offers and through the choice of a better offer between these two, which was even cheaper and therefore more favourable for the country, it prevented the intention, just before losing power, of the government of Rope to establish these eight-wheelers, without checking the level of prices, technical characteristics and everything else that we have witnessed in the acquisitions of six-wheelers in the past – to allow the direct business of his client companion and, as a result, the ownership of the largest logistics company in Slovenia, which, in view of the experience of all the other Taiwanese acquisitions, would have ended as it has ended now, and in bankruptcy, but with this period, would have been a slight difference, which some would have already wished to make up. Unlike Patrie, where there is a mental delicacy, at least as far as the proceedings against the former Prime Minister are concerned – there is still no evidence of this, no known time, no place, no way of service, no one to promise anything – everything is practically everything in the case of Systemic Technology on the table. We have a gift on the table, a letter of intent, clearly signed. It provides cooperation without any tender, without testing offers, for a business worth a few hundred million euros. The time is well known when this was happening, the events that took place before this business was even allowed – the sale of this state-owned company Zdenku Pavčku or Viator & Vector – are known to all actors in this business as well as the way of service. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we expect that those parliamentary groups that will participate in this commission of inquiry will not do so in order to impede this work, but to help in the purpose of the investigation to the end, and that you will contribute your share to identifying the responsibilities of those who are [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] As a result, through this failed business Systemic Technique – Viator & Vector – the former government allowed the Patria affair to take place in Slovenia. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you, too. In this way, I find that everyone who wanted to debate you have been given a word. The time set for the debate has not yet fully expired, so I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. He does, so I'm inviting you to report. Three reported, a minute and 35 seconds is available to each debater. Mr Jožef Jerovšek first gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much. First, I need to respond to two things. Mr President, I think we have cleared up, but I have not interpreted the statements I have quoted. I asked for an interpretation, and I absolutely did not step back because that statement was a preemptive abuse. I was surprised to learn that Mrs Hribar, who sometimes fought with her husband for the sanctity of life, had spoken it. But that's when she evaluated it. That the arms trade is the same as the post-war murders. Tens of thousands of dead people are the same as the arms trade. I hope she has so much power that one day she'll be blocked from her own statement. Secondly, colleague Jelusič, I probably voted in favour of that resolution because, as always, I am naive and believe that people who are in the position of the country think well of the country, think of its future differently than today, when many people, that I do not say government, are building on this country to fail in order to make their heart wish that those countries never did. It's sad compared to Lithuania, where I was 14 days ago. They're all proud to have their own country and they're all defending it. No pro-Sovie nostalgia will be encountered there, not by any chance. With us, however, it is so tragically different, and this propaganda through the media, for which the left is responsible — you have done so that the country is not loved by many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you. The next debate is Dr. Ljubica Jelusič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I would only warn you that a letter of intent, a respected magician. Black man, it's not a public order, it's not a defense order, it's not a confidential order. The letter of intent cannot make the same conclusions applicable to other legally valid transactions concluded by a contract. This second deal really ended with a contract in 2006, which you say was a better choice. In the light of what is happening today, perhaps even in the light of what is going to happen to these patriarchs in the future, I fear that this was no better choice. In the previous debate, it was also mentioned that intermediaries are used in transactions concluded by the left and concerning the defence industry. I would also like to point out that the business concluded by the government in 2006 was done through an intermediary, and this is through Rotis. In the defence industry, there are situations where there is a case, some product does only one world producer, and at that time it is not possible to make a public invitation to tender and not even by making offers to seek out all possible tenderers because they are not available. But there are also companies that don't want to sell differently than through intermediaries, and then these intermediaries are the ones that make little money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you, too. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u178	A predictable debate. Mr. Chernač has changed his roles three times today. He came from the prosecuteur to the lawyer and then to the judge. I don't even know why we need an investigator, because apparently the conclusions were already made. We know everything, we know everything, everything's clean. But I ask why, in the five years that this government was in power, it did nothing to clear up these matters on the legal footing. You had five years of time, and that was a fresh deal, 2004-2008. What was Minister Mate doing, what was D.A. Brezigar doing, and the others, that this case wasn't being processed? Next thing. The system technique issue is not finished. It is known that there is a lawsuit against the Republic of Slovenia, and I am afraid we will get another skeleton out of this closet. In any case, we have received about one billion from the previous skeleton government, which must now be repaired. From the unconstitutional cases that the Constitutional Court then resolved, to the deleted, up to 170 million from the Pahor government for employees and also some of the stories about the Coco bonds that came as bonds in this year's budget. I insist that this matter is unnecessary in order to avoid any added value of any quality. You're going to investigate what you're going to do, and the results are going to be such that you're going to say what you want to find, not what you're going to find. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u180	Dear President, I would expect you to stop Mr Chehovin at the right time when he said everything else, which is not related to this commission of inquiry, and he also said a bunch of lies, one bunch of floods. It would be good to slowly establish a way of communicating in the National Assembly, to remind those who may be politically a little closer to you when they move away from the debate and, above all, when they speak lies and insult them. Once again, he showed this extraordinary duality of theirs, not only in person, but also as far as Ambassadors and Members of Positive Slovenia are concerned. He reiterated that this commission of inquiry was unnecessary in order not to give any effect but would cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-25-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you. With regard to your procedural finding, however, I would point to the fact that, in this case, if you considered that the debate was affecting you, it is also possible to react through the procedural proposal you had at your disposal. It is a terrible thing to talk about those who are not in the Chamber and cannot do so, and this was the purpose of my warnings, not whether it comes from one party or another or a Member or a Member. This concludes the debate. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly shall not vote on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry. Therefore, I note that the National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the sale of Systemic Technology to Viator & Vector and further activities concluded by signing a letter on the intention to supply infantry armoured vehicles — medium-sized armoured wheeled vehicles 8x8 between Mors and Systemic Technology 20. 8. 2004, because of the suspicion that it was a politically agreed, non-economic transaction accompanied by the suspicion of customerism and corruption, the aim of which was not to protect the interests of the State and to achieve the lowest price in the supply of eight-wheelers, but to provide more than 100 million euro worth of business with eight-wheelers to individuals associated with the then ruling party without a call, without a price review and without prior examination of competitive offers and products. The purpose and scope of the parliamentary investigation are defined in the request of the Group of Members and Members for the purpose of determining the parliamentary investigation and in the act on the determination of the parliamentary investigation which you have also received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly at the latest at its forthcoming meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. See you tomorrow 10 o'clock.
