ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 13th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Polonca Komar, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Dr Ljubica Jelusič, Marijan Pojbič, Mr Jakob Preseknik and Mr Richard Braniselj. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law amending the Public Finance Act in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 36 Members and Members with first-signed Janko Webro. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 15th session, on 10. 4. as a parent working body, he considered the draft law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance, ZUJF-C, EPA 868 /VI, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Janko Webro. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. The opinion of the Government of 1 was forwarded to the Committee. 2. 2013, Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 27. 2. 2013 and the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of 5. 4. 2013 In the course of the business period, the positive Slovenia SD and DeSUS parliamentary groups tabled amendments to Articles 2 and 3 of the bill. In its opening statement, the representative of the applicant said that, in view of the recent decision of the Constitutional Court, which had repealed the non-constitutional paragraphs of Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act, consideration of that proposal was no longer necessary. It also announced that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities would draw up a technical law for the interim period between the adoption of the ZUJF and the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is important to correct the wrong done to the pensioners. Members of opposition groups considered that the amendment to Article 143 of the Law concerned both those parts of the pension paid out of the budget and parts which did not have the basis for payment from the budget. The question was also expressed as to whether sufficient resources would be available to implement this constitutional decision. The representative of STIZ said that all pensioners who had not complained about the contested decisions needed to adopt a law that would also regulate this area. After a brief discussion, the Committee, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted a decision by 16 votes to none: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance [[ZUJF-C]] , second reading, is not suitable for further consideration. The same decision also proposes to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the proposal for a bill by Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič for the introduction of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u4	Good afternoon. Hello, Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act, the government of Janševa reduced pensions, so-called pensions under special conditions, which were higher than EUR 622 and for which funds were provided from the state budget. However, not all such pensions have been reduced, but only some. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly pointed out that the Government, as a proponent of the Public Finance Balance Act, had not adequately defined or justified the criteria for determining the categories of pension recipients to which the reduction in Article 143 referred. However, from the outset, we have pointed out that, selectively, an ideologically structured reduction in pensions is discriminatory and therefore unconstitutional, since it is an essential intervention into acquired rights without an appropriate interpretation without taking into account the principle of equality. Since the then government did not take our warnings into account, we have tabled three amendments to the legislative procedure to this law, which would eliminate this discriminatory and unconstitutional nature. In the meantime, the Ombudsman also submitted her proposal to the proceedings or to the Constitutional Court, which explained on a reasoned basis why it was actually an unconstitutional intervention. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision repealing the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 143 of the dispute and concluded that the ZPIZ service should issue new decisions without delay which would implement this amendment. The Constitutional Court thus found or confirmed that what we proposed in the amendment of the law all the time claimed that selective and discriminatory interference with the rights acquired constituted an unconstitutional solution and was therefore not allowed. By repealing the disputed paragraphs of Article 143, the basic content of our proposal is exhausted and the continuation of the procedure is therefore not meaningful. Therefore, the Committee on Finance has adopted that the proposal for a bill amending the Public Finance Balance Act is not appropriate for further consideration and, of course, we support this decision. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court, in its decision, has left the legislator alone in the law, the way in which the consequences of the reduction of pensions are addressed is to be remedied. Therefore, the Ministry of the Interior is already preparing a specific technical law to regulate the correction of these injustices, even for the period until the operative decision of the Constitutional Court is delivered — uniform for all beneficiaries. And how much will this trip cost us on the wrong path? 57 million euros. Of course, the bill will be paid to taxpayers and the current government. In short, one more time. We support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill before us refers to articles that the Constitutional Court, as has already been said today, annulled on 14 March this year as unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has also established a means of enforcing its decision so that the Institute for Pensions and Disability Insurance of Slovenia has ordered all pension beneficiaries who have been granted pensions on the basis of those provisions Article 143 of the ZUJF without delay to issue a new decision. The new law before us was submitted to the National Assembly before the decision of the Constitutional Court. Given that the decision of the Constitutional Court has reached the objective of the proposed amendment and that the individual provisions of the law cannot be annulled twice, the Government agrees with the proposed decision and therefore agrees that the National Assembly confirms that the amendment of the ZUJF is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Respected and respected! We Social Democrats, when we adopted the Public Finance Balance Act overnight in the National Assembly, made it clear that this law has some unconstitutional solutions and that it is an unsustainable austerity policy in this country with a common desire for fiscal consolidation to build on disputed solutions. Solutions that selectively affect individual groups. Less than a year later, it is worth asking what we have gained from this. We can see that we have angered a multitude of citizens and citizens, and we have shown that as a society we do not appreciate their contribution to the construction of this society. Today, however, we have nothing at the point when what has been saved so far will have to be repaid with interest. In this respect, this is a particular lesson in how to deal with fiscal consolidation further. We Social Democrats were among those who proposed three times to the National Assembly that the contested solutions to the Public Finance Balance Act should be corrected by the National Assembly itself. In the middle of the third trial, the Constitutional Court decided as we had predicted in the nights when we were considering the Public Finance Balance Act. The lesson we need to draw today is undeniable. Public financial consolidation is required in the country. Slovenia must demonstrate the seriousness of fulfilling the commitments it has made to the European Union within the coordination of fiscal policies. In this respect, however, this warning is clear. The measures to be taken in this country in order to balance public finances in order to get close to a balanced state budget must be sound, fair and consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. These are the gabarits appointed by the Constitutional Court to the National Assembly. In this respect, the Social Democrats, as proposing the bill, understand the fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia made the proposal irrelevant and is therefore not suitable for further consideration. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities, pardon, has already taken equal opportunity to draw up a technical law to address the issue of compensation for damage caused to citizens and citizens affected by the contested 143rd Article of the Public Finance Balance Act. Social Democrats expect this law to be on our benches as soon as possible, and we will, by learning this story in the coming days, weeks and months, be able to make decisions that will be smarter than short-term incursions built on an ideological basis in order to achieve the goals we have as a society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Ms Kristina Valenčič will move the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! It is already quite clear today that saving at all costs is not the right solution to lead to such an urgent consolidation of public finances. The Constitutional Court gave a clear signal by its recent decisions that, despite the tight financial situation in Slovenia, measures and solutions that do not respect human dignity are not acceptable, which are incompatible with the principle of the social state, the principle of equality and proportionality. Since last May, when we have adopted the Law on Public Finance Balance, the regular meeting of the National Assembly is almost to be held so that we do not consider amending and supplementing this law. If not, this is certainly the topic most frequently mentioned in the debates of Members and Members. All these facts show that this is a remarkable law; outstanding both by its weight and by the content and measures it has brought. It is simply a reflection of the situation in which our country and its public finances are located. The law has indirectly affected every citizen of our country. The measures have also addressed areas that are particularly sensitive for citizens, i.e. education, health, social. And yes, we've already reached into some of the rights acquired. In doing so, we believed in the Civil Code that the measures were balanced, for the most part temporary, fair and without prejudice to the rights of those citizens with low incomes. Let me repeat, the measures are necessary, because without them the balance of public finances cannot be achieved. We are in the Citizens' List and continue to strongly support the gradual reduction of the budget deficit. The state's headless indebtedness must stop, otherwise we will drown in public debt and interest, and in the end no one will want to lend us any more money. That's why we supported the ZUJF. For the first time in the history of our country, we have begun to structurally reduce public spending and have made it possible to reduce public deficits. Both the then opposition and later the public have warned that certain measures are unfair and disproportionate. We listened to these warnings in the Civil Gazette and prepared our proposal for a solution, which unfortunately did not receive adequate support. At the last reading of the novel ZUJF, I concluded the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette by saying: "In the Civil Gazette, we still believe that, as responsible politicians one day, we will only be able to come together on this subject, if not before, at the decision of the Constitutional Court." And today is obviously the day. On 14 March this year, the Constitutional Court decided that the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 143 of the ZUJF should be repealed. We respect the Constitutional Court's decision in the Civil Gazette, and we cannot support today's amendment and the addition of the ZUJF. The Government must draw up a new proposal that will fully follow or take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court. While the Constitutional Court's decision can be understood that the opposition's earlier warnings were on-the-spot, it is worth noting that the main objective of the ZUJF was to provide long-term sustainable public finances and a balanced budget, macroeconomic stability, sustainable and stable economic development. We didn't do our homework until the beginning. It may be necessary to accept any more ZUJF to get us out of this situation: our survival is also about a better future for our children. Therefore, we must not allow excessive indebtedness to cause us to lose our sovereignty and independence in shaping fiscal policy. No matter how difficult times we live, how hard work is ahead of us, and how many high obstacles we will have to overcome, Slovenia must become a country of economic and social freedom in which each individual will have the opportunity to realize his or her dream. As I have said, the Civil Code does not support the bill, we are for a comprehensive solution that the Government is already preparing and that will fully follow the Constitutional Court's decision and respect the agreement with the affected beneficiaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Following is the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, presented by Mrs Jasmina Opec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we respect the decision of the Constitutional Court, which decided that the three paragraphs of Article 143 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, adopted last June, are contrary to the Constitution, because they do not respect the principle of equality. On the date of issue of the decision, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance is obliged to apply corrections or to pay pensions in the manner regulated by the original law, including pensioners who receive pensions under exceptional conditions. It is therefore clear to us that the third law that has been tabled to amend article 143 is being rejected or that today we are voting in favour of a decision to reject the law so that the current government can then draft the law in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. In doing so, we must point out that, in our view, the Constitutional Court, as a non-constitutional one, has defined primarily the very way in which the law has intervened in pensions. We ourselves insist that, in times of crisis, when the country's revenues cannot cover all the costs as poverty and despair rise, we must take measures that will enable every citizen to live a decent life, not just some. Solidarity is the word that is still important in these times, solidarity in the sense that we do not burden those who already have nothing. We must also take into account in pensions that it is far more just and more important for the future of the nation to reduce exceptional pensions than linearly to cut into the system and reduce all pensions, as this would affect pensioners who are already living on the verge of survival. The new government will have an extremely difficult task in managing public finances. Even if he does not want to admit it, he will have to severely limit the expenditure side of the budget. Certain cuts will certainly also be needed in the area of pensions. In doing so, we hope that this government will not repeat the mistakes of another government, which, by abolishing a state pension amounting to EUR 180, has taken everything away from someone and thereby has left a certain part of the pensioners in greater poverty, but will continue its actions along the path of the previous coalition, where we have tried to reduce expenditure in a way that no one in this country is in any danger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Jana Jenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All of you, welcome! On 14 March 2013, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decision repealing Article 143, paragraph 3, of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, which ordered the ZPIZ to grant to all pension recipients who had been granted a pension on the basis of the repealed paragraphs of Article 143 without delay a new decision. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore respect the Constitutional Court's decision, but we would like to point out that the Constitutional Court's decision provides for the repayment of the money back only to those pensioners who have complained about the reduction of the pension and have not yet received the court's legal decision. It's about 8,000 pensioners. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore call on the competent ministry to treat all affected persons equally and by means of a technical law provides for a solution that will allow the difference to be paid back to all 26 000 pensioners who received reduced pensions from June last year. For we must not allow redefinition. However, it is not possible to overlook the fact that an additional €40 million will be needed for the return of money and higher pensions in this year's year, which is a substantial supply for our country in this situation. For this reason, we hope for understanding and willingness to agree by the affected, and we expect the competent ministry to find an acceptable way of paying both sides. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the decision has reached the basic purpose of the bill under consideration and therefore there is no need for it to remain under further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What a lovely greeting to all at the beginning of today’s meeting of the National Assembly! I also welcome the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance! The Financial and Monetary Policy Committee has concluded that the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act, which was tabled by Members of the Social Democrats' Group, is not suitable for further consideration. As a member of the Finance Committee, I also supported this decision and today, the New Slovenia Group will do the same in the vote simply because we respect the Constitutional Court's decision and we are not protesting before the Constitutional Court when it issues a decision. The content of that Act is, in fact, covered by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which repealed the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 143 of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance last month. The argument adopted by the Constitutional Court is as follows: "Although the law is permissible to encroach on acquired rights, but not in a selective way, but in the light of the principle of equality, i.e. linear interventions." As it is said, we respect the Constitutional Court's decision, but I can also honestly say that we trusted the former Minister of Finance of the National Gazette, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, when he represented ZUJF to us. Nevertheless, we are concerned about the state of public finances. Only the enforcement of this decision of the Constitutional Court will result in additional outflows from this year's budget. These resources are not planned in this year's budget. Furthermore, higher budgetary resources will be needed for the reason that all pensions will return to the level before the entry into force of the ZUJF, which will increase the budget expenditure for monthly pensions of approximately EUR 22 million this year. The new Government also promises a technical law that will provide a legal basis for the payment of pensions for re-payment, including for those beneficiaries who have not lodged legal remedies against the decisions issued. This is the kind of thinking we welcome. The whole difference in pensions in return will cost the budget a good EUR 23 million this year. This money will have to be saved somewhere else, or better said, taken from someone else. We are concerned that the government or the current coalition will indeed reach out after the linear reduction of all pensions – which is now more than 36% of pensioners receive a pension of less than 500 euros. Every intervention in this pension, which is already below the poverty threshold – the poverty threshold for a single-member household is EUR 600 per month – is virtually impossible. So all we have left is an intervention in higher pensions, which will have to be pretty radical to achieve the desired fiscal effect. In doing so, let me stress that, as a coalition party in the previous government, we have advocated that the measures adopted do not affect the property of the weakest recipients of pensions. As the boundary of a protected pension, we have set the amount of EUR 622, which exceeds the calculated poverty threshold. Thus, current pension interventions have not increased the rate of poverty and we also have the same expectations from the new government and the new government coalition in taking measures to consolidate public finances. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court has ruled that selective interference with acquired rights is not admissible, we point out the problem of state pensions, which are from 1. 1. 2012 was abolished by former Minister Dr. Svetlik. This was a highly selective approach in the area of current pensions. With the adoption of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, state pensions were abolished overnight. The State pension was granted to 14,000 beneficiaries. These beneficiaries will also need to be reimbursed as soon as possible, and in Novi Slovenija we will do our utmost to correct these wrongs. Minister Svetlik particularly brutally intervened in the standard of the rural older population, which today feels torn to the brink of society and of all forgotten. The coalition now has the opportunity to correct this former mistake. As stated, the decision of the New Slovenia Group supports because we respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia will be presented by mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you so much for the president's words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There was a time when it was a noble act to admit a mistake, and apparently that is no longer the case today. Those who worry that the new government will linearly cut pensions, including the lowest ones – I believe that this concern is unnecessary because the new government realizes that 64% of pensions that do not reach minimum are below the poverty threshold and that would be an irresponsible act. I hope that you are aware of this or will be aware of it when you insist on entering a fiscal rule into the constitution or when negotiating its contents. To return to the bill. At the time of the adoption of the law, and in particular Article 143 thereof, Members and Members of Positive Slovenia drew attention to its selectivity, discriminatoryness and possible non-constitutionality. This was also indicated by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. On the part of the then coalition MPs, all our warnings have been heard and voted out. You'll remember those meetings at your mother's working body late in the night and then you'll meet at the National Assembly? Pensions were deprived of those pensioners who receive them under special conditions and are in law by incomprehensible, I hope even to claim an ideological criterion, fell into a group that has reduced their pensions, some even for a quarter. We have also tried to change the law of Positive Slovenia. Three times! We have tabled a bill three times in cooperation with colleagues from SD. However, the previous government, in support of this, did not have a hearing. What we considered to be doubtful was recognized by the Constitutional Court as a fact. Article 143 of the ZUJF was declared inadmissible by the Constitutional Court as an infringement of the constitutional principle of equality and repealed. What is important to people too, because they are still asking what this means for them in reality, the decision of the Constitutional Court is indisputable and means the automatic repeal of the anti-constitutional article. PPIZ was, today we have already heard, at the same time, ordered to issue new decisions on 14 March, which will pay pensions in the future in the same way as before the adoption of the ZUJF, meaning, in other words, that we no longer need a special law. That is why the law before us today – which, as we say, in almost identical content, such as the Constitutional Court's decision, we put in the parliamentary procedure in the parliamentary group for the third time – is practically unnecessary. The procedure does not allow investors to withdraw from the law, so we also supported and agreed with the proposed conclusion that the law is inappropriate for further consideration because it is practically unnecessary. The Constitutional Court’s decision also allows for the reimbursement of the underpaid pensions to be paid back, but only to those beneficiaries who have complained. However, as this could again mean unequal treatment in our view, we also believe in the Positive Slovenia Group that the damage must be reimbursed to all beneficiaries. This, as I am aware, will be regulated by the new government by a technical law that we will consider, as far as I am aware of in the coming days, at coalition coordination or at the beginning of May, at the home work body and later at the May session. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope we have learned something from this case. I believe that it is the end of the times of the adoption of reckless laws and that despite the extremely poor situation in the budget – you have been able to read in today's daily newspaper what is the real situation, despite the promises of the previous government in what good condition it leaves public finances. In short, the new government, even though it will be forced to prepare a package of crisis measures, will never again come before this National Assembly with a law such as the ZUJF. Those who say that the ZUJF should be urgently needed because it is supposed to help consolidate public finances – I say it is puzzled with logic. This law means only moral gambling, and we couldn't agree to it in Positive Slovenia at the time and we can't land today. As we say, we will support the decision because the law is practically the same as the Constitutional Court's decision and is unnecessary from this point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, presented by the Mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u20	Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, President! We also believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this law is not suitable for further consideration, and we will also support this decision, as we have supported it many times before. The Public Finance Balance Act, ZUJF, had one purpose: to slightly more adapt the country's expenditure to reduced revenues due to the short-term economy. In fact, the ZUJF follows one principle that we can spend or at least spend roughly as much as we create or that this difference is still in some way medium or long term manageable. ZUJF 2 will undoubtedly also have to face this government, which is now in power to adjust the country's expenditure to revenues that have been added to the forecast in autumn, when we adopted the 2013 and 2014 budget. This Secretary of State knows well, you will know this if you are not already, even coalition Members, and I am very interested, and I will be very pleased to monitor the form and manner in which you will intervene in the rights you have acquired to reduce your expenditure and then you will see that the denied bread is eaten a lot. So, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we respect the Constitutional Court's decision, and we are also, in some ways, pleased with the Constitutional Court's finding that it is permissible to intervene in the rights acquired if this specific or acute public financial situation in the country so requires. Of course, the Constitutional Court in this Article 143 of the ZUJF makes it clear that the intervention was arbitrary, although I must stress that I personally disagree with this. In fact, this 143rd article has reached out to certain criteria in part of pensions. The first criterion was that those parts are paid exclusively from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, not from the pension fund of our country. The second criterion is that it only interferes with average pensions. This is said to be a pension that is above average and therefore very malicious, offensive and unfounded evidence that this article of the ZUJF has affected the socially weaker category of pensioners. That's not true! This is true of the government that abolished state pensions, since state pensions were given to the weakest segments of the population, particularly in the Slovenian countryside. This was done by a ministerial team under the patronage of the Social Democratic Party or SD. So, the intervention was also in pensions, the third criterion, which did not have a basis in paid contributions to the Slovenian pension fund, but in various funds which were dedicated to everything else and then to pensions. One more thing! Those who paid for the funds were, for example, pensioners who served in JLA who also retired under better conditions, usually under better conditions than the average Slovenian pensioner. I can say that these were, as a rule, interferences with exceptional revenues, which were also arbitrarily allocated. And we strongly reject any indication that it was ideology and ideological criteria, because the ZUJF itself is more than evidenceable. It is also a matter of interference with the rights of veterans of the war for Slovenia, including the rights of exiles. Where's the ideology? It's some kind of malicious instigation. So, of course, we are all in principle to clean up the pension allowance, but when concrete proposals are made on how to do this, to clean up part of what does not have a basis in the paid contributions to the Slovenian pension fund, but there are problems. And then political readings. Of course, we respect this decision, and we also recognize that a mistake has been made here, so we look forward to this government having a happier hand when it intervenes in these rights or when it applies what it predicts is a balance of public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you, too, for presenting the Group's position. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the votes, 10 minutes after the end of item 2a of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of the agreement on the classification of Slovenian State Holding investments. On the basis of Article 32, paragraph 1, of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Government submitted the classification in agreement with the National Assembly. In this regard, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Investment Classification of the Slovenian State Holding be rejected. I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to explain the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 15th session. 4. examined the Classification of Investments of the Slovenian State Holding Company, submitted by the Government pursuant to Article 32 of the Slovenian State Holding Act. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service were invited to the meeting. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of 28. 2. 2013, opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance of 28. 2. 2013 and the proposal for a decision on consent of 10. 4. 2013 In its opening remarks, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service had already given a written opinion, pointing to the question whether the Fund for the refinancing of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the Blue Insurance Facility issue should also be included in the classification, where it is not clear whether a strategic investment or one of the companies which will manage strategic investments. In the debate, the members of the Committee of Ministers asked what the timetable was and when the Slovenian State Holding Board would receive it and when new guidelines and new classifications would be prepared. The Minister said that the package of envisaged business sales would be submitted within one month to the National Assembly, which does not require amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act, but he expects that amendments to the SDH law will be adopted by the end of June, as well as the deadline. In the debate, the Committee voted on the decision that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy should propose to the National Assembly to adopt a Decision on Consent to the Investment Classifications of the Slovenian State Holding of 28. 2. 2013 The Committee did not adopt the proposal. In view of the above, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the proposal for a decision on consent annexed to this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you. In order to introduce the Government's position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposal for classification was submitted by the previous Government to the National Assembly for admission. The basic starting point for the Slovenian State Holding to take over state ownership and not just management is the starting point on which this classification is based. In view of the change in the concept announced by the new coalition at the beginning of the mandate, namely that State assets will only be placed in management and not in ownership, it is therefore necessary to reconsider the content of the classification. Taking that into account, the Government supports the proposal for a decision, as formulated or prepared by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and proposes to the National Assembly that it does not give its consent to the proposal for classification. However, this will not and must not stop measures for the transparent and effective implementation of State property management, so, as has already been said, the Minister of Finance has already announced further steps and a timetable for action by the Ministry or government at the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of the National Gazette. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The Citizens' List will support the proposal, as adopted by the Home Committee, so that the classification is not accepted. This gives us additional time and thought to prepare a comprehensive solution to how we will manage national assets. This has been the case, and we believe that there is a real time here and that we do not have much time to discuss it, but that we need to start managing state property as efficiently as possible. The Committee has therefore also raised the question of how long this legislation will be implemented, when authorities will be put in place and how effectively this property can actually be managed. In doing so, I would say that, according to the findings and comparatively, this state property has lost in recent years and that the capital value of some EUR 10 billion, which should yield at least 10% of the return, and these state-owned enterprises or shares in these state-owned enterprises should bring at least a billion new values to the country, which could be earmarked for this at a time when we are running short of money in the budget – and this should mainly be for reinvestment in these companies that are here. In doing so, I would say that by this delay, by moving, by thinking about a new government, old, all in all, that we are actually losing with each day when we are not doing effective governance, a lot of millions of money. Indeed, we have some unfortunate hand in the management of state property throughout history, because there are too many special costs and tasks on these state-owned enterprises and all of them. Through this, various things are financed, and businesses are also in bad business, and every policy option in power, wishes to have an influence in these companies and thus an additional flow of money for its adherents. Because of this, there is no way we can get to an effective work. Some certainly do not want to give up the need to ensure that businesses are doing well, that they are making profits and that they must not have unnecessary costs, that they have to operate rationally and that this is absolutely necessary. This is the priority of these companies. In doing so, I would say that we are talking too little about whether classification, strategy or law itself, economic methods and ways to improve the operations of these companies. The main issue is the recent debate on the privatisation of these companies, the sale of these companies. I think that privatisation is also necessary to be achieved, but in my opinion the time for sale is very unfavourable, and that it is always necessary to make sure that the companies we manage are in good condition, that they are very good and then our withdrawals can be significantly larger. Moreover, with only the sale of state shares, where sales of property are irreparable and since then you give up the potential profits you can get, as well as potential losses. This money should, however, be used exclusively to reduce our external debt and thus to cover the secret reduction of interest costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u28	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, President of the National Assembly! After countless meetings between the coalition and the opposition, after many obstacles, even the call for a referendum and, finally, you succeeded – even after the fall of the former government, when it was adopted last December and when the Slovenian State Holding Act came to life. In fact, this is the first law in a single country, which foresees that in Slovenia we look at what is left of state property, to make a strategy and effectively manage it from one place – unfortunately for a new government coalition too transparent. So no more numerous parastatal companies, no more listed supervisory boards, administrations, departures, substitutions, countless opportunities for such and different recruitments. Whatever we look at, holding is the right direction. It provides for one supervisory board and a professional three-member board, which would have clear instructions on what to do, while the entire Slovenian public would simply monitor and see what these people are doing. Property management is no longer a taboo topic and playground of different stakeholders. And what is the condition that all that I've written down will live? Easy: classification! Thus, the classification of investments in the state holding company is the first condition in which we set the first framework, where it is clear to the State what is strategically important, what is important to the state and what portfolio investments are. The previous coalition coordinated the document, brought to the National Assembly also with Members or coalition parties, who are now in the new coalition, Dr Virant and Mr Erjavac. When did we not tell people the truth? But then or now, I'm asking new coalition partners. Why aren't you in charge? Why aren't you being honest? Why are you not standing in the same position, no matter where you are, in the coalition, or in the opposition or in another coalition? Unfortunately, you have this power, but you have no right to say: we don't like this. We are concerned that you do not have the right to take it and do nothing about it. It would not be wrong for you to come and say that this classification - prepared by the Minister of Finance in the draft, and you all believed him and we still believe him today, at least some of Dr. Šuštersič, and coalition partners, which we have also properly coordinated, is not good. You have this right. And we would now come with a new classification, accept it and allow the Slovenian state holding company to come to life. But where's your classification? After a month and a half, she's still gone! All this country has in the area of state property management is a government president's announcement to sell one or two companies. Do you find this a serious and responsible policy? We are aware that the situation is such that the privatisation process will run with or without you, an expensive government coalition. It is only essential that we choose for ourselves what we want to sell and what we want to keep, or that we are simply dictated by the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, when it conditionalises our credits on selling the best we have, energy, ports, farms and so on. Someone will also have to pay the bill between 2009 and 2011, when we lived, as if the crisis did not exist, as if there were no problems when we lost 8 billion, they spent more each year in the budget 2 billion more than we created. It is no problem that the new coalition does not like our classification, but the problem is that you have no alternative because you have no other classification because you have no solution and no vision. Since you obviously have not yet decided whether to hold or have an agency, would you have simply a cabinet of the President of the Government where state assets will be managed and managed by highly qualified penguin coordinators?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u29	Mr Pukšič, I would just like to point out that, given that it is only for the parliamentary groups to present their views on a specific proposal from the Committee, it is correct and expected that the groups of Members should maintain their views on this level. You have gone far beyond that and there is no way you can give a word to those who would like to respond to your allegations. You're putting everyone you've named and exposed in an awkward situation. Of course, this cannot be rectified, but I hope that in the positions of the following groups of Members, we will remain content and proceed properly to the end. Mr Han has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President! Thank you, too, for your warning, but if we want to respect each other in this country, if we want to have a level in this temple, I would expect a respected president – especially, France, from you to apologize for the words you have said, not to the Social Democrats, not to the Government, but to the Party of Positive Slovenia, which has its name as a party, and is not a party to some penguins. I think this is very unfair and a Member who has been in Parliament for so long since 1996, should have raised this level slightly above his normal level. I'm asking you to apologize, because this has exceeded all limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you. Therefore, the procedural proposal refers to the expectation of an apology. Do you have a procedural proposal on this, Mr Pukšič?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u32	No, I don't have any procedural proposals! In the way that the Rules of Procedure are used, which you allow, because you are in charge of the session – what a colleague has done, I will not take advantage of it in the same way, but I will just say that I have only said what I heard in this Chamber from one of my colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you. This concludes the debate on these procedural proposals and continues with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marija Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u34	A nice welcome to all and thank you for saying so, Mr President! In accordance with the Slovenian National Holding Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was obliged to submit to the National Assembly an investment cassification of the Slovenian State Holding Company. The classification shall be adopted for the period until the implementation of the strategy. This specifies in more detail the objectives to be achieved by the Slovenian State Holding in the management of each investment. The classification is one of the management acts of the holding company and contains only the classification of state assets. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we join, after a thorough discussion, the views of those who disagree with the adoption or the proposed classification. Our decision is based in particular on the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is still in a unclear political situation and therefore, according to our assessment, there is still a need for further and thorough reflection on the usefulness of the proposed availability of Slovenian State Holding investments. We are afraid that, on such an important issue as the sale of the remainder of state property, they would not have made a decision in an oversimplistic manner, without precise data, why a particular part of the property or share of the individual company is being sold, and without being aware of why someone decided to sell individual investments. Both the classification and the next act to be discussed today are investment management guidelines, in accordance with Article 32 of the Slovenian State Holding Act. As can be seen from the above-mentioned law, they are both closely linked to the investment management strategy. The guidelines are the basis, while the classification itself is defined in the strategy. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we associate ourselves with the view that it makes sense for all three documents to be dealt with together, i.e. at the same time, but with a comment: as soon as possible. Since withdrawal is not possible, we will vote in the DeSUS Group against the Investment Classification of the Slovenian State Holding Group. We believe that the classification itself is a solid, useful document for the preparation of a complete package of necessary investment management acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you. Following is the position of the New Slovenia Group, which will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you again! Allow me to begin by reminding you that the Slovenian State Holding Act was adopted in October last year after long-term coordination with all the parliamentary groups. Following numerous political blockades, it was finally published on 27 December 2012 and thus entered into force on 28 December 2012. A key document for managing the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia is the investment management strategy. The first strategy relating to the period of management of the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia in the first five years shall, in accordance with Article 32 of the Act, be drawn up by the Administration of the Slovenian State Holding within six months of the entry into force of the law or, in particular, by 28 June 2013. Although the classification of investments is also an integral part of the strategy. However, the first classification of investments that is valid during the transitional period is of crucial importance, i.e. at the time of adoption of the first strategy. All management and management of capital investments at this time are based on the classification accepted. This is an important act to ensure transparency in the management of capital investments. It defines the criteria and criteria for the classification of capital investments in each of the four investment categories not intended for sale, strategic, important and portfolio investments, as well as the classification of undertakings in which the State has a capital share in one of these four categories. It also provides that the sale of capital shares must take place on the basis of one of the public methods of disposal. In accordance with Article 32 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Government is required to submit to the National Assembly, within one month at the latest, and should enter into force practically within two months at the time of consideration of this act. It's been almost four months now, and we still don't have this document. We've said many times that if there's no classification, there's no holding company. The former government has prepared a classification and a working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Members of the current coalition first voted to postpone the decision on this document for a time after the formation of the new government, which we considered to be understandable and then voted down the proposed classification. We expected the new government to immediately put in the parliamentary procedure another, i.e. a new proposal for classification. The time for that was more than enough, and unfortunately that's not the case. We are afraid that the current coalition wants to take advantage of the time until the adoption of the first "ad hoc" classification for the sale of capital shares by certain companies, past pre-adopted rules, perhaps even past the National Assembly. The very principle of transparency was the key principle advocated by the current coalition at the time of the adoption of this law. Clearly, this principle is no longer relevant or, rather, appropriate to the current coalition. We are concerned by the poor example of our citizens that there is no need to adhere to the rules adopted, as this is not done by the highest authorities. Perhaps more importantly, how will we convince the international public and the financial markets that we are capable of consolidating public finances without foreign aid if there is no interest in adopting the legal basis for managing and managing state capital investments? In fact, the sale of this property is the only way to cover the budget deficit, to encourage the economy, given the fact that debt in foreign markets due to the high required interest rate is now almost impossible. In New Slovenia, we are seriously concerned about the accession of the current government coalition to the resolution of fiscal sustainability. At least in part, we are at peace with the Minister of Finance's remarks, as well as with the Secretary of State today, who announced that the Government is in a hurry to prepare documents that will actually enable the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding. We will respect if the new government coalition has a different concept, which means that SDH will grant, although many comments were made at the Council in the State Council, that SDH should not be granted. Because if SDH is redistributed, it's no longer holding, but it's AUKN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u38	Your Honor! Thank you for your word. Mr Horvath, too, we are concerned about a number of reasons, not just those I will now talk about. I will talk about the proposal for investment management guidelines as well as the classification of the investments of the Slovenian State holding company. In the parliamentary group, we are based on the integrity of the Slovenian State Holding Act and we highly appreciate those principles, which are the door and guarantee in the functioning of SDH and the management of capital investments. In doing so, let us remind ourselves of what is at the forefront: first, the concentrated management of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia; secondly, the transparent management system and thirdly, which may be the most important, economical and efficient management of investments. Both management acts, both classification and guidelines, are crucial in accordance with Article 32 of the Law and, as is evident from the structure of the law, closely linked, in fact, to the investment management strategy. The guidelines are the basis of the strategy and the classification, with the exception of capital investments, is set out in the strategy itself. That is why we believe - and we stress this - that it is reasonable and reasonable to consider all three documents together, i.e. at the same time. This implies some immediate activity, i.e. election, appointment of SDH authorities, which will also allow for the preparation of a strategy proposal, including, where appropriate, one or more proposals for strategies for an investment segment, as set out in the law in force. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia can be summed up into the following. Firstly, the classification of investments at this time can be prepared primarily as a pro-viso sales plan, but not as a document that will definitively answer the question of what, why, and how we will maintain or what shares of the country in the companies we will sell. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the work of guidelines and strategies. Secondly, the criteria for how to choose strategic, portfolio and significant investments should be regulated, namely, the credibility of each document is that it has at least its baselines. These are based on objectives and could be sectoral policies. But they're gone. In this regard, we believe that in many solutions the guidelines and classification, as has already been highlighted today, are useful in the preparation of the whole package included in a reasonable management strategy. The Group will therefore also make a special appeal to the Government to speed up procedures leading to the operationalisation of SDH and capital investment management. That seems important to us. We will not support the documents, but I hope, my colleagues, that despite our differing views we will maintain an urgent level of mutual respect. No exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! By rejecting the proposal for a classification of the Slovenian State holding company, the possibility of harmful and non-transparent sales is likely to open up. It was a great surprise that the current coalition had rejected the classification on the Finance Committee, especially because a working group had been formed in the summer of 2012, where representatives of the then opposition were also present, active cooperation in the drafting of the law, and in particular the words of the current Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek, that the classification was one of the most important documents and expected to be adopted as much as possible by political parties. The government of Janez Janša decided that the classification was a more important document and also took all steps to make several meetings with Positive Slovenia as well as to invite SD. In the classification sent by the Government of Janez Janša to the National Assembly, it should be pointed out that a number of proposals by Positive Slovenia were taken into account, which were concrete, which were probably also of added value, that this classification had improved. In the SDS Group, we estimate that the current coalition is a double-criteria coalition, advocating something when they sit in the opposition and forget what they said during the opposition and only pursue their objectives. We estimate that the classification of Slovenia would have been needed 20 years ago and that Slovenia has taken ten steps back by rejecting the classification. Undoubtedly, we can also contribute to this by increasing the premiums on Slovenian bonds from day to day and actually approaching those very dangerous limits of 7%. We estimate that governance of state assets is one of the key reforms Slovenia must adopt sooner than later. By rejecting the classification, the current coalition has also accepted responsibility and the question for the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance is when they will prepare a new classification and when it can be expected in the National Assembly. Of course, the biggest question is what will happen to state property in this interim period. It is estimated that the Calvary of State Property Management will continue with the rejection of the classification. In view of the information we have from the media that the current coalition is seriously considering amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act, in particular in order to ensure that the transfer of investments from the Republic of Slovenia to holding will not be left to the Republic of Slovenia. No doubt then we will no longer be able to talk about holding and we will no longer be able to talk about management, but we will only be able to talk about management. Leadership, however, means direct policy interference with businesses. Of course, it is important to raise the important question of how the OECD will look at the OECD's views on this issue. I expect from the current coalition, because this is important for Slovenia, it is important for further development to prepare a new classification as soon as possible and submit it to the National Assembly. I also expect Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek to continue the policy of dialogue with the government of Janez Janša and to consult with opposition parties in accepting the classifications and preparations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u42	Respected and respected! Sometimes the impression is that only the previous government of Janez Janša has begun in the country of reflection on how to improve corporate governance to optimize the management of state assets; how to achieve greater profits, more dividends in the state budget; how to improve the return on this property; and not least, how to improve the prospects of state-owned companies through improved governance. That impression is wrong. Slovenia has already held an in-depth and broad debate on the new type of corporate governance of state assets in the process of joining the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. At that time, an agency was established by the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act. In only one year of operation, this agency has made measurable and evident improvements in the return from the management of state assets in companies owned by the State in part or majority. In this reference, the National Assembly did not have the power to consider the report of the Capital Investment Management Agency before modifying the management concept at all. From that report, we could see measurable movements that have shown that Slovenia has started slowly, but that it is confident to step in the path of those countries which have a responsible, democratic attitude towards state property and which are fully implementing the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in the management of state-owned companies. More. The rapid process of designing, setting up and launching the Capital Investment Management Agency was an example of good practice in Europe. Among other things, the Agency has adopted a management code. Moreover, a capital investment management strategy has also been developed for consideration in the Government. To all those who do not understand why we are rejecting the classification today, I recommend that you look at the strategy then prepared. Not because of the scope of the document, but because it is carefully considered in that document why a company remains in the long-term strategic ownership of the Republic of Slovenia and why some individual investment, as a portfolio, may also be devoted to possible privatisation. In the classification that is before us today, there is only a table where the target final shares of the Republic of Slovenia are defined in many companies. Without strategic consideration of what a company has, it should be a port, a national air carrier, Telekom or a distributor of liquid fuels, a strategic and multiplier effect on the national economy and its long-term development potential. In this respect, we join all those who require the administration of the Slovenian Compensation Society and the government of Alenka Bratušek to prepare a new classification as soon as possible. Moreover, to prepare the management strategy as soon as possible, because we are not only interested in the target shares, we are interested in arguments and circumstances, why we will view an investment as strategic and why we will view an investment as portfolio. And only this should be a sober and rational and selective reflection on what we will privatise in this country and what we will preserve as strategic property for future generations. Therefore, we reject the proposed classification and point out that this is an irreversible process, that we do not want to remain on the trenches before each individual sale, but that we want a realistic reflection that will take into account the circumstances of the time in which Slovenia has found itself, because of the mistrust of international financial markets, but, on the other hand, which will also take into account what our long-term development needs are and what economy we need in these needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Investment Classification of the Slovenian State Holding Group, we will decide today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, 10 minutes after the end of item 2a of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the day-to-day basis, this is on a defensive proposal for guidelines for the management of investments. The proposal for guidelines was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body of the National Assembly, proposes that it be decided that the proposal for investment management guidelines is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, President of the Committee, to provide an additional explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 15th session, on 10. 4. 2013 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for guidelines for the management of investments submitted by the Government to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 7 and Article 32(1) of the Slovenian State Holding Act for consideration and adoption. The Committee was provided with material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 28. 2. 2013, opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance of 5. 4. 2013 Representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Ministry of Finance attended the meetings of the Committee. In its opening remarks, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the comments made by the service in writing concerning the forms of acts of the National Assembly, as set out in Article 107 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. She also gave a warning about the compliance of the Slovenian State Holding Act and the guidelines on the status of the Blue Insurance Company. The discussion initially expressed the view that the investment classification guidelines of the Slovenian State Holding and investment management strategies are related documents which should be considered simultaneously. The following proposal was made for the measure in question to be rejected. The members of the Board who objected considered that this would constitute a negative signal to the international financial markets and potential investors, the continuation of poor governance of state assets and the departure from the OECD guidelines. On the contrary, some members of the Committee felt that rejection would have no negative impact on the confidence of foreign financial markets, but would allow for better decision-making and management of state-owned investments. It was also feared that, due to short-term interests, state property would be sold at low prices. The debate called for a more transparent, more responsible and more cost-effective treatment of state property and the withdrawal of the country from individual enterprises. Individual members of the Committee stressed the need to withdraw from the economy more than the need to withdraw. The consequences of poor management of state assets for the further economic development of Slovenia were also highlighted and the need for the early appointment of the management of the Slovenian State holding company was expressed. It was also suggested that the responsible and fair management of State property should be given priority over the sale of certain investments, with opposition to sales being expressed at all costs. The following questions were raised by members of the Committee to the Minister of Finance as to what further plans are being made by the Government for the management of state assets and when they will be submitted. The lack of time in terms of the confidence of foreign financial markets in Slovenia was highlighted. With regard to the Government's plan in this area, the Minister explained that it would be necessary to amend the Slovenian State Holding Act and to separate the management process and the privatisation procedure. He also stressed that the Government wants to accelerate privatisation and does not want to waste time transferring state assets to the Slovenian State Holding. He explained that the Government will prepare the first package of companies available for sale within one month. As regards the timetable for the preparation of amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act, it was mentioned as the deadline of June 2013. Following the discussion, the 11 votes for and 7 votes against were adopted by the Committee: The proposal for investment management guidelines is not suitable for further consideration. We also propose the same decision to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the proposal for investment management guidelines for the introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body, Mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The government submitted to the National Assembly for adoption of the Investment Management Guidelines at the same time and approximately at the same time as the classification. The guidelines should set out in more detail the priorities of the holding company, the starting point for implementing the principles laid down in the law into practice and the basis for the preparation of the investment management strategy. The guidelines define the country's objectives in the Slovenian State Holding, define investment in investment segments and how they are managed, and monitor, revise and report company performance. The country also sets its objectives and objectives with the guidelines by classification and strategy, which is the basis for more active and value-building-oriented ownership. As already mentioned in the examination of the classification, it is crucial that both documents, i.e. classification and guidelines, follow the concept of the management of the state property, which I have already mentioned, the Government assesses the need to revise them. It is appropriate to review the guidelines and classifications at the same time, to take account of them, and the Government therefore agrees with the proposal for decisions of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you, too, and we are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Mr Pukšič, please take note of the warnings from the previous agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u48	You don't know, but if there is, then in this house, you can tell the truth and justice. Is this also forbidden in the new coalition? You can, but you won't stop me. Everything I said, I told the truth and justice in accordance with the blessed Anton Martin Slomšk, who said, "In the word is truth, in the act of justice." And if I am anything, I have repeated a sentence from one of my respected colleagues and colleagues who were once Members, and today they are in the government. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we understand even less in the Slovenian People's Party why you also reject the guidelines. This is a document which states: "The investment management guidelines adopted by the National Assembly set out in more detail the priority of the Slovenian State Holding, the starting point for introducing the principles set out in this Act into practice and the basis for the preparation of the investment management strategy. The country as the owner of companies, we say, is not a good master. If you ask me because it's not her job at all, it's not the job of running the country. The task of the State is to provide public services and the rule of law to people, and I will highlight the rule of law where the rules for all are the same, regardless of where they are written, what they are written and what their functions are, and I will draw up an environment for businesses in which they can operate and are competitive. Here comes the adoption of both guidelines and long-term strategies for the management of state property. This is what every normal country has and does, regardless of who's in power; these are left, right, middle, the point is not to adapt to the political situation, but only to the economic situation. Earlier it was said how many months of coordination took place last summer, now you, in a respected coalition, will do so within one month, thus predicting, of course without any coordination. You know, in a society where someone does not guarantee a business with their personal property, but only with social property, anomalies begin to appear. In our society, unfortunately, it's been too long. Inefficientness and inefficiencies, so today we have 150 000 people without jobs and people – not because there is no bread, but because they do not have anything to buy bread with – they wait in line, not in line to come for a kilo of bread, in line for time to run out and in the last half hour when it is 50% cheaper. What we're doing today, what you're rejecting, a respected coalition, is likely to result in a renewed withdrawal to our country's 10-year bond and, of course, even more money from the budget to repay these liabilities. How to define investments: strategic, important and portfolio. These are the basics that we should discuss, not all that has been done, to reject in an easy way. How to manage them — and that is the point! What is also very important is monitoring, auditing and reporting on the performance of state-owned companies. The guidelines should be the basis for the preparation of a strategy to be managed by the Slovenian State Holding within six months of its appointment and forwarded to the National Assembly. It is no wonder, dear colleagues and colleagues, that after such debates and actions – the words are one, the actions are another – says Finance Today Ready for Three. While it is true that not the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit come, but the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International State Fund say that speculation with such a black scenario is not good for society, but even worse it is not to implement reforms, not to balance public finances and not to make Slovenia more competitive.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. As with the Investment Classification of the Slovenian State Holding, we also have a negative opinion in the Proposal for Guidelines on Investment Management in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. The investment management guidelines should set out in greater detail the priorities of the Slovenian state holding company and provide the basis for the preparation of the investment management strategy. However, the guidelines of the Member and the Member of the Group cannot be supported for the same reason as previously stated in the Investment Classification. We also note from this document that classification, guidance and strategy are such interlinked acts that we must consider them at the same time. However, in the DeSUS Group, we agree to finally establish the conditions for state property, state property in companies, to be managed in such a way as to create conditions for as high a yield as possible. This accelerates the development opportunities for our over-indebted and peddling economy. The Republic of Slovenia is characterised by poor management of state investments. This is reflected in a poor economic situation. Instead of the fact that the managers of companies where the country has their share, as a good host, are working hard to flourish and develop these companies, they manage them extremely irresponsiblely and use them for client accounts and in the fight for domination. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we call on all those responsible to produce truly thorough and qualitatively all three strategic investment management documents: the State Investment Management Strategy and Guidelines and classifications. We expect the competent ministry to prepare the documents within the deadlines announced by the Minister of Finance during the discussion on classifications on the home labour market, together with the preparation of the first sales package and amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act by the end of June. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we only hope that we will not run out of time for all of these.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Representative of the Government! To begin with, the New Slovenia Group will never pour sand into the wheel beds to the government and the ruling coalition, with which you want to get quality solutions for managing the investments of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible. This is an extremely important area, and I hope that when we receive the announced amendment to the Slovenian State Holding Act – that is, a fundamental novelty, as it is predicted – that there will be a slightly better occupation in coalition benches. But we probably all agree, colleagues and colleagues, that frequent legislative changes result in non-amendments. I have also heard this several times at a consultation in the State Council on the Slovenian State Holding, where many smart people have said a lot of smart thoughts. But, of course, there were also such thoughts that had to be rejected immediately. Among other things, once again, also a statement by a famous Slovenian university teacher who said that if you will grant Slovenian State Holding, then know that this is no longer holding. And then probably this new law coming in will no longer be the Slovenian State Holding Act, but there will be something else, maybe the law on AUKN 2. And we won't have any more Slovenian State Holding, but probably AUKN 2. At the 15th regular session of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the parent working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, decided on the proposal for guidelines for investment management and the ruling coalition voted against this proposal. The guidelines on capital investment management are one of the key documents for the management of state-owned capital investments. In substance, they represent some general principles and guidelines for the operation of the Slovenian State holding company in the management of state-owned capital investments. It is difficult to imagine that the current coalition in managing capital investments will be based on some purely different principles, as outlined in the guidelines; that is, the principle of transparency, responsibility, economy and efficiency. The objectives to be pursued in the management of capital investments, such as capital adequacy, solvency, liquidity, current settlement of liabilities, ensuring adequate return on capital, raising management levels, should not be questionable for any of the political parties. In the case of differences in particular details, I would expect that appropriate amendments to this proposal would be tabled by the ruling coalition or that a new proposal for this act would be put forward as soon as it has been decided that the proposal for investment management guidelines is not suitable for further consideration. However, this new proposal is still not in the parliamentary procedure. On the day of the Liberation Front, it will be four months after the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act, and we have none of the acts that would allow the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act to begin. We say that it is necessary to take time; Slovenia is in intensive care. And the bottles from which the vital fluid flows, the fluid of life, are almost empty. We well know that Slovenia has been under the watchful eye of many international and European institutions in recent months, in particular the global financial markets. These closely monitor the developments in the country and also the delays in the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding Act and the implementation of the Slovenian State Holding Act certainly contribute to the required growth of returns on Slovenian bonds. In international circles, they do not count the word and the promise, not the rhetorical one, but the acts. And it's high time, colleagues and colleagues, that we take action. The New Slovenia Group does not support that decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u54	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Just as in classification, of course, it is surprising that the guidelines have been rejected in the same way as the coalition party classification. I am convinced that there is another issue in classification, but the guidelines are only such a document that provides more efficient, transparent, cost-effective and responsible management of state property. Far from it! Today, in Slovenia, we cannot talk about the effective management of state property. Unfortunately, this rejection is likely to continue such management. Above all, it should be stressed that the management of state assets by the Slovenian Democratic Party will be effective when the revenue from budgetary management is higher than the management expenditure from the budget. In doing so, it is necessary to highlight the reference year of the Capital Investment Management Agency, which the SD party places in the sky, that this year the revenue generated by State resources management amounted to EUR 34 million and the expenditure incurred for the management of state assets exceeded EUR 500 million. If this is for anyone an effective management of state property, then it certainly is not for the Slovenian Democratic Party. It should be stressed that we expect the new government, from the Minister of Finance, to submit to the National Assembly as soon as possible a package of two of the most important documents so that actual implementation and management in the manner envisaged by the Slovenian State Holding Act can begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. The Citizens' List will support the proposal of the Committee on Finance, which is said to reject the guidelines. This gives the Government additional time to review the guidelines and possibly correct them and adjust them. We are also aware that the time for us to start actively managing state assets is short, that we need to start as soon as possible, so we hope that the next proposals will follow very quickly. Maybe a small suggestion: guidelines are more than a beautiful fairy tale with a nice ending, where there are many beautiful ideas about how we're going to do business. It may be good to write in the new ones at least the minimum profitability targets for each type of company, which could be more valuable than all of those described in these guidelines, and that this would be binding on those who manage both the State holding company and the companies owned or partly owned by the State holding company. But there's something that bothers me a little bit, because I'm getting a slow feeling with these gears and things, that there's no serious desire for us to actually spit in our hands and do something in this area. Too many times these things happen and we delay too much, we have too much paperwork. Here we need to make very clear what the principles, ways, and depending on how we set up an ambush, a team that will manage state assets. And that really should be done and done as soon as possible. However, it is likely that what I have already said is that every current authority is seeking to improve and increase its influence on the availability and management of state property. Each authority, when it comes, tries to do everything that will affect it and to improve the situation of its privileged people, in some way tries to put its own staff and through these personnel then to seduce such a friendly policy and good-hearted policy, to the authority currently in power. We know we have a bad story, a bad history of government property management. And I can go back a long way, and I can put state-owned companies right after the war, how we then had labor self-governance, which was more or less sand in our eyes. It was ensured through recruitment that, in these, the country of major companies had always been very well-checked, ensuring that certain needs of privileged persons were covered. Also, the state property we made was sand in the eyes. Soon the matter was reversed, and out of two million owners it became several thousand owners who obtained certificates from others. Of course, these privileged ones, who were united in pydis, and those who had access to money, had no special problems to buy these shares. Then we walked away from the tycoon, and again, those who owned it had to take care of the couriers who transferred their money from the banks. Those who have money from these sales, such as Mercury and similar companies, were the ones who owned it before, and they picked it up., No one will find that money, this money did not go into the pockets of those to whom we think it went into the pockets, but rather into specific privileged matters. This story continues and continues, so I fear that power — whatever authority it is and whoever it comes — will not give up on it. It is unfortunate, however, that, unfortunately, poor human resources, economic failures, are often placed in these state-owned enterprises to recruit and establish these privileged relations. Then the service comes back with a service – a bad company, instead of taking care of business well-being, they often go for money on banks and subsidies, and the result is that we achieve at least two to three times the added value in state-owned enterprises in Europe. That is why I really hope that one day we will take this seriously and realize this problem and start doing good for all of us, not just for privileged people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, 10 minutes after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the basis of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Slovenian State Holding Act, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Slovenian State Holding Act entered into force on 28 December last year, with the aim of establishing a transparent capital investment management system, based on concentrated investment management aimed at achieving stable ownership and a sustainable maximisation of the return and value of these investments. When the law was in force, some dilemmas arose in the interpretation of certain provisions which could in practice cause difficulties in effective enforcement, which would once again lead to a departure from the origins on which the law was based. With amendments and additions to the law, the Government proposes to abolish these anomalies and, in addition, by more precise regulation and simplification of individual procedures in the pre-defined transitional period until the implementation of the classification of investments, to identify solutions to avoid different interpretations of the applicable law and to allow more reasonable implementation of certain management activities. The introduction of control of the Court of Auditors over the operation of the Slovenian State Holding and its subsidiaries in the new Article 29a provides for transparent management of state assets, which increases public confidence in management. At the meeting of the Committee, an amendment was adopted adding the duty of the Slovenian State Holding and its subsidiaries under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and the obligation to transmit information of a public nature in accordance with the law governing access to information of a public nature. While the Government considers that the proposed regulation is clear from the legislation already in force and therefore that the addition to this Article does not have added value, it does not intend to oppose the proposed addition to the article. The amendment to the regime relating to the deletion of the transfer of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of NEKs to SDH is proposed because of the specific nature of the fund in question, since it has a strictly defined purpose and scope of operation under the law, and cannot therefore be regarded as such as an investment within the meaning of this Act. In view of the complexity of the transfer of property rights on real estate and in particular the collection of all necessary data and related issues, it is proposed to delete the provision on the implementation of the recapitalisation of SDH with the immovable property of the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of simplifying the transitional investment management regime managed by the AUKN pending the implementation of the law, it is proposed to amend Article 38, paragraph 10, in which the term "management" is replaced by the term "possibility". It is irrational, therefore, that in the transitional period until the entry into force of the classification of investments for all management, which by law includes the acquisition of investments, the possession and exercise of the rights of shareholders or shareholders and all other legal acts in accordance with the law governing companies and other regulations, there is a requirement to obtain the consent of the National Assembly. In order to avoid different legal interpretations, the conditions relating to the value of an individual investment or capital share in an investment for which it is compulsory to obtain the consent of the State General Assembly are also defined. Similarly, in the case of the divestment of investments in the portfolio of Kad, Sod, DSU, Blue Insurance and PDP, the provision of paragraph 12 of Article 38 is also amended. The current transitional arrangements are still lacking in one point and do not lay down investment management rules that are not regulated in Article 38, paragraph 10 or 12, and the Government therefore proposes to supplement the Article with the thirteenth paragraph. The proposed solution was further amended and supplemented at a meeting of the Committee with additional amendments. More specifically, by regulating the termination of individual legal acts, any legal doubts regarding practical implementation shall be resolved. In view of all the above, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that you adopt the proposed amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you, too. The draft law also treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give my word to Mr. Bojan Starman, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 51st urgent meeting, on 23. 4. 2013 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for the proposed law to be considered and adopted in accordance with an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 49th meeting, on 12. 4. 2013 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. On the 16th day. 4. In 2013, the Group of Members and Members of the SDS Group tabled a request for a redecision on the decision of the College on the legislative procedure. Day 22. 4. In 2013, the National Assembly confirmed that the law was being dealt with in a rapid manner. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of 15 April 2013, which it examined in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The Service made comments on the provisions of Article 5 of the draft law. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance on 17 April, which supports the proposal for a law. The amendments were tabled by the SDS Group on 2 and 5 on 22 April, the New Slovenia Group on 2 and 23 April 2013 and the Coalition's parliamentary group on 1, 2 and 5 of the proposal of the Act on 23 April 2013. On 23 April, the SDS Group withdrew the amendment to Article 2 of 22 April 2013 and tabled a new amendment to Article 2. Later, in the debate, the SDS Amendment Group withdrew and tabled a proposal for an amendment to Article 2. The following material was also forwarded to the meeting of the Committee: Proposal for an amendment to Article 2 of the SDS Group. By the last amendment, the Committee had identified and adopted it. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the Committee. In the introductory explanation, the representative of the proposed law gave a more detailed presentation of the purpose and objectives of the bill and said that it was primarily intended to find solutions for the efficient management of investments. It is also intended to regulate the transitional investment management regime until all necessary documents are adopted for the normal functioning of the Slovenian State Holding. In an additional explanation for the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the members of the Committee had already received a written opinion and had briefly summarized its content. She also presented the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the amendments tabled. In the debate, members of opposition groups pointed out that the novel brought about the non-transparent functioning of SDH, as there were no accompanying documents, and pointed to guidelines and classifications that the Government had not yet forwarded to the National Assembly. They also considered the absence of the strategy to be an additional weakness. The bill was also made clear that it does not address some of the concerns expressed by the OECD. They said they would not support the bill's proposals, but rather members of coalition groups felt that the adoption of the law was necessary, as a transitional period needed to be regulated for easier, simpler and more transparent state-owned operations. The bill, however, makes progress as it does not allow the transfer of ownership from the country to the holding company. They said that asset management should be achieved as quickly as possible. The adoption of the law is also intended to accelerate the adoption of the guidelines on classification and investment management strategies. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 5. The amendments of the New Slovenia Group have become irrelevant by 2nd June, the coalition's sent groups by 2nd and the SDS Group by 5th Article. The amendment was also adopted on the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure to Articles 2 and 5. In accordance with Article 128, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary proposal proposed for adoption by the National Assembly is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Marija Plevčak has the floor of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act, especially because we have deleted Article 1 of the bill with the amendment. This article amended the fourth paragraph of Article 28. We agree with the other provisions of the amendment and support them, especially because the amendment does not touch the content of the law in force, but deals with a number of technical matters. We find it very important that a provision obliges the Court of Auditors to review the Slovenian State Holding and its subsidiaries. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are confident that the Court of Auditors will be able to carry out regular annual audits of the operation of the Slovenian State Holding and Dependent Companies, as these audits will check whether it is actually operating in accordance with the purpose for which it was established and for the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia. As has already been said, we will support Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Slovenian State Holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! The new Slovenian State Holding Act does not change the concept of State-owned capital investment management for the time being, which we believe is good. The concept introduced by the Basic Law on Slovenian State Holding is, in the opinion of Nova Slovenije, appropriate as it ensures uniform, transparent and efficient management of state property. The amendments and additions to the law that we are considering today are essentially one important substantive novelty: simplifying the management of capital investments during the transitional period, from the adoption of the law to the adoption of the SDH investment classification. Following the legal provisions currently in force, the agreement of the National Assembly should be obtained for the management and disposal of capital investments exceeding EUR 20 million or the 25 % equity share of the company. However, the proposed amendments and additions to this Act require the consent of the National Assembly only for disposal activities. We do not support the proposed novels of the Slovenian State Holding Act in Novi Slovenije. The existing legal solutions regarding the regime for managing and managing capital investments during the transitional period, i.e. until the adoption of the classification of SDH investments, are, in the opinion of New Slovenia, appropriate. The law clearly sets a time limit for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to the National Assembly the first classification of investments, which is one month from the adoption of the law. In this way, the objective of transparent governance of state assets has been achieved all the time since the adoption of the law. The solutions presented by the current proposal of the SDH are, however, diametrically contrary to the objectives pursued by the basic law. It thus gives the Government unlimited opportunities to manage state assets in a timeless transitional period. In the opinion of New Slovenia, the current government coalition postpones the adoption of the SDH investment classification for no reasonable reason. It thus prolongs the transitional period and, at the same time, repeals the envisaged control of the National Assembly over the management of state assets. Therefore, conditions for unsupervised and non-transparent management of state-owned capital shares are being created. Let me remind you that part of the current coalition in the role of the opposition has repeatedly shown us that it is a robbery of the century or that it is a major betrayal. To this day, these statements have not yet been withdrawn, so they still apply. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that companies in which the state has capital investments should not be reduced, but that their governance and operations should be enhanced. We are committed to the legal introduction of the obligation to publish public data on all persons operating with state-owned enterprises and on the level of payments for works, supplies and services made. This would result in more rational business and better business outcomes in companies where the Republic of Slovenia has capital investments. As has already been said, Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The text is by the Positive Slovenia Group, Mr Alojzij Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u66	Your Honor! First of all, the amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act is or generally is attributed too much importance. Ambition is significantly less widespread, but it must also be understood that Slovenian State Holding is everything from the enforcement of the law to the attention of the public, both interested and professional. It is therefore clear that the objective of the proposal is only to address some shortcomings, uncertainties, in particular during the transitional period when the classification is not fully prepared and is therefore not established. The transitional period was not invented by a new government, but was introduced by the current government, the former. The transitional period has a solid domestic right in the law already in force. It is also perfectly logical and legally, economically and organisationally understandable. The law adequately resolved the procedures for the implementation of the classification – in particular, until the entry into force of the classification – for the deployment, management or disposal of investments in companies where the book value exceeds EUR 20 million or the ownership share or share of voting rights is at least 25%. For companies that do not meet the criteria mentioned above, more specifically for companies which have so far been unable to be classified in Article 38, paragraphs 10 and 12, the applicant has drawn up solutions based on the established principles of corporate governance. And this is almost all about the amendment of the law, which is after all the principle or the guardian that the Republic of Slovenia also requires of the OECD. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia also supports all amendments adopted by the Committee, but not those included in the e-clup. The problem of effectively managing the country's capital investments, their profitability and blindness in the exercise of responsibility is not quickly denied by anyone who deals with this issue. We therefore supported all those amendments that strengthen the role of the Court of Auditors, ensure access to information of a public nature and the commitment to apply the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, of course, it cannot be argued that fundamental relations between shareholders relating to ownership, regulatory functions, governance and governance, if I refer to this term as a degree of political influence, are not yet fully resolved. To rule itself in this case is also the highest authority and also the problem, I would add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u68	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! For the Slovenian Democratic Party, the amendment or addition to the Slovenian State Holding Act is mainly problematic in two respects. The first aspect is that there is a great lack of consistency between the current coalition proposal and what they were defending when they were in opposition. Two, three months ago, the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia submitted signatures for the request for a referendum on the Slovenian State Holding, following an agreement between current Prime Minister Alenko Bratušek and current Minister Šuštersič, there was an agreement and six conditions for the withdrawal of the referendum signatures. The current coalition would be expected to continue with the same criteria as it did before they were in opposition, but only one of these six points was included in the amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act. I would therefore like to raise the question of both the current coalition and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, why they have so decided where they see such reasons and, above all, the important question why they have changed the thesis on the Supervisory Board. Both the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats at the time advocated that greater weight should be given to the opposition in membership of the Supervisory Council. It's not like that anymore. It is worth noting that Article 38, paragraph 10 of the existing law is inoperable, but the solution to this article would be to adopt a classification which the current coalition has rejected with an absolute majority and thereby make the Calvary of State Property Management continue and Slovenia has taken ten steps back. It should be stressed that the Slovenian State Holding Act brings a great deal of added value, especially for the pension fund, for its stability and for its balance. Therefore, on the one hand, I do not understand the coalition party DeSUS, which should be aware of and in particular to work for the benefit of pensioners when they like to stress it, and by delaying the actual life of the Slovenian state holding company, it is also harmful for all pensioners, as well as for future generations. We would like to see where these guarantees ensure that the state holding company will live as soon as possible, but in the end it should be stressed that the Slovenian Democratic Party will always support any proposal, any addition, any amendment to the law that will ensure more efficient, responsible, transparent and cost-effective management of state assets. However, we will strongly oppose any decision, any step that would withdraw from a more effective, responsible, transparent management of state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matvež Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u70	Your Honor! I believe that you all remember that social democracy has opposed the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act; especially because it envisaged the transfer of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia to a newly established holding company. As it is known, the new government coalition has adopted a political compromise in its creation not to tolerate this property, but to remain owned by the Republic of Slovenia and when the relevant documents are adopted, only the owner of this property will be accepted on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. In the situation in which we are, a transitional period should be better regulated for reasonable reasons. The fact is that the holding company will come to life when acts of governance are adopted – in previous points we have already talked extensively about the reasons why the proposed documents of classification and management guidelines cannot be adopted. During this transitional period, it makes sense for the manager, the Slovenian Compensation Company, to limit the field of investment availability as much as possible. In the presentation of the previous views of the parliamentary groups, it was said that this standard was falling. On the contrary! Social Democrats want to be consistent with the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which clearly prohibits the involvement of the government and political bodies in the adoption of simple governance decisions. The solution adopted by the ruling coalition on the proposal of the Social Democrats provides that the National Assembly will give its consent during a transitional period for all investments in which the Republic of Slovenia has either at least a 25 % share of the voting rights or the total value of that assets of the Republic of Slovenia or its related companies exceeds EUR 20 million. It is therefore the consent of the National Assembly to be made available. We believe, however, that a solution would be to give the National Assembly a consensus on the concrete voting of the owners' representatives at the meetings of the companies, on their concrete conduct in determining the dividend policy, in fact, contrary to the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which explicitly prohibit the interference of the Government with such decisions. This ensures the independence and independence of the exercise of corporate rights in companies where the State has its own capital investments, ensuring compliance with the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The independence of the Slovenian compensation company as managers of this asset is linked to respect for corporate governance principles in the management of investments. In this regard, I should like to point out that the relevant level of the proposed legislation also raises the code of management with the content to be defined and the deadline for adoption of the Code is extremely short and set on 15 May 2013. The proposed amendments and additions also provide for the possibility to enforce the liability of the members of the management or control bodies of the Slovenian Indemnity Society or later of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which, together with the introduction of reporting obligations to the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, will provide a basis for more efficient, cost-effective and responsible management of companies with the country's capital investments by the Slovenian Indemnity Society. For this reason, the Social Democrats will support this amendment of the law, and once again let me make clear our unequivocal expectation that the competent missing documents will be proposed for adoption by the National Assembly as soon as possible, in order to achieve a new type of asset management owned by the Republic of Slovenia, with the manager at the head, on behalf and for the account of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the principles of economy, transparency, efficiency and, of course, predictability. The Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The citizen's list will support changes in the law. They allow for a transitional period of action during this period with these minor changes. All these points we are talking about today are somehow linked to the state holding. I have thought about it and, in all this, in some way, I have been disturbed by the overly complicated nature of all these things and thus by the confusion of what we want to achieve with this law; this is said to be a very effective and rapid interference with the efficient management of state investment. The basic law itself has broken all these things and the guidelines and the strategies, all together, that after four months we have spent so much time, but nothing has been done yet. And I don't know how much longer it's gonna take for something to happen. That really bothers me. In the debate on the law itself, I have asked why it is easier not to set the goals and tasks and responsibilities of both the management of this newly established management holding company and those whose assets they will supervise or manage indirectly. I lack very clear criteria, economic definitions, economic targets for individual entities that would be binding. I am disturbed by the recruitment, all of this thinking, not only about the Slovenian state holding company, but also about the bad bank. I have a feeling we don't know exactly what the purpose of this marriage is. The only goal is to manage effectively. We have pooled all state shares in one place so that there will be no different policies. We've made this law a base, we've only been waiting so long for it to start working to produce effects. This state property will increase very quickly, especially in poor terms. For example, a bad bank will produce a lot more shares of these bad companies in some way in state ownership and will also have to manage these things. However, I think that the problem is that somehow, as I have already said, we do not want to give policy from this system and we are very politically trying to recruit into the organs ourselves. In short, we do not want to – it has been said before that we have already found on the committees that it is not essential that the country withdraws from state-owned enterprises. More importantly, policy moves away from these state-owned enterprises and leaves it to professional people to manage it and to manage it effectively. However, it seems that these state-owned companies are truly such tempting and convenient places to provide additional benefits. We know there are three things here; one is a direct budget. Those who are in power and those who work with them may be granted privileges; others are banks where some without specific conditions can acquire credit; and others are probably state-owned enterprises. Here I would add another factor, where the country is losing a lot, I have also mentioned it many times, these are also public procurements, which are in some ways always focused on good work and good prices for those currently in power. These are sectors of policy impact that are constantly disturbed and tried to retain these powers because there is money in the back. If we can agree and actually work as the National Assembly, as a current policy in the interest of all people, then be free of worry, we will be enough for all of us, and we will not have a budget deficit, unnecessary reforms and a reduction of a variety of expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Franz Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, Government Representative! It has been 10 months since the Act on Slovenian State Holding was first transmitted to the National Assembly, then months of active awarding, coordination – I emphasise coordination – and of course complementing the draft with opposition. This has already been said several times today. Then came the re-decision on the basis of the demands of the State Council – this means "curbing" against the law, despite your participation in the assembly and the referendum requirement five minutes before midnight. We still remember those stories. Only after the Constitutional Court's decision to reject such a law in the referendum poses an excessive risk to state finances has the law entered into force at the end of last year; you have done everything in between and the change of government – you have succeeded – and now you will be able to destroy this law. However, the legislature did not stop the implementation of the law because he knew — the lawmaker himself, the government — that it meant, in fact, the hands and feet of that country or if you wanted blood. The previous coalition aligned both the classification and the management guidelines and sent them to the National Assembly. In the last two points, you have slightly rejected all of this. While, among other things, in the second reading, it has been said that you are obliged to tell our people what the public financial consequences of this manoeuvre will be, many things have been opened up in the working group, many things have been cleared up, many have also been corrected by amendments. Did you have a fig in your pockets when you were fixing it? Who said that? From the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia mag. Alenka Bratusek! The second most influential person in this country today said, among other things: "We will listen again to the government's proposals that it is necessary to save because there is no money. We will continue to face a reduction in salaries and pensions." Well, then he says, "This law will cause the largest property in Slovenia." So, about the holding company you're canceling today, which you're destroying, which you've already completely paralysed by classification and strategy. Then there is this same gentleman, who is today the president of the National Assembly and allows himself to speak with a speaker when the representative comes to present the position of the Group before he speaks the word, to "fire" – in his own words. "We can sell all of this without the government's consent, without the consent of the National Assembly, so we're talking about the theft of the century." That's what Mr. Webber said. And where is the place of the century now? Everything you've done has obviously worked out and you've prepared to steal the century with the amendment of this law, so you're applying it, so it says, "until the Court enters into force, the Court is independently managing the investments managed by AUKN until the law comes into effect". Who in God's name in this country can trust this Court of Control? Composition of the Supervisory Board: only Lozej – this is the Positive Slovenia, the Councillor of the City Council in Ljubljana Nives Cesar – the saint of Positive Slovenia, the National List, DeSUS and SD. Where are the opposition opposition guards? And you'll have the property. Who are you gonna put on top of the holding company, who's gonna lead? What about the Groze Stone? Jankovic is expected to insist on setting up the management of the Slovenian Compensation Society. In short, it's completely [[...]] I'm sorry, you even have an authority to adopt some code. Who will be served by this codex? He won't even be able to use the toilet because it's gonna be hard paper. You destroyed this country. Three's coming, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u75	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We have two amendments to Article 2 of the Act, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. With regard to the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 2, I note that it has not been tabled in accordance with Article 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and therefore this amendment is irrelevant. Let me explain, in accordance with Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure, only an article of amendments can be tabled in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law. With that amendment, the SDS Group intervenes in the content of Article 21 of the Act on the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is not subject to amendments to the amendment of this Act. In short, Article 21 of this Law is closed, so it is not possible to submit amendments to this Article. In view of the above, the National Assembly will neither discuss nor decide on this amendment. Please, Mr. Jože Tanko, do you have a procedural procedure? Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Obviously, the working methods of the Pahor government are also slowly returning when Mr Gantar, every time the opposition tabled an amendment, wisely concluded that the amendment cannot be tabled because it is either diametrically contrary to the content of the law or because the law would be abolished by adopting this amendment and so on. A thousand reasons. I think that such an approach, when amendments are decided by the services of the National Assembly, on what is appropriate and what is not, is unworthy of the National Assembly. The amendments tabled must be decided by the National Assembly by vote, and this method, when a decision is made in the background and then reads that something is not possible, is inappropriate. Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly allows for amendments to the articles which are open to be tabled. The article to which we have tabled an amendment is the subject of a debate in the National Assembly. We have tabled an amendment to Article 2 of the amendment and I propose that you put this amendment on the agenda and that we discuss it. As the coalition votes, we leave this to the coalition, how the opposition will vote, we leave it to the opposition. However, in such a way as to eliminate the amendments tabled in the back of the proceedings, it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The third paragraph of Article 129 expressly permits, expressly allowing such amendments to be tabled. I propose that this amendment be discussed as well. However, I know that the amendment is problematic because this amendment introduces into the law what was the explicit request of Alenka Bratušek, when she was a member of the National Assembly, i.e. a change in the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. At that time, it was exclusively written down what the Slovenian State Holding should be made up to be acceptable to Alenka Bratušek; now that this lady is the Prime Minister of the Government, a month, two years after she requested it, this change no longer smells to her. I think it is right that this matter should also be rectified by this amendment, that the law will have the appearance and image of the positive Slovenia in December, and that the current opposition may have accepted regulation in this area. It was no longer possible to change at the time, but now it is possible to change that. I suggest we put this in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Of course, I also remember this proposal as a member of the Committee on Finance. I remember what you were talking about, but I took a good look at this amendment – I hope it's not an insult to me to just read something that prepares my jobs. I hope you don't mean that. In fact, I recall yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where your Group tabled an amendment to the new Article 29a with points 1 to 10. Together we agreed and tried to find a compromise and tabled a joint amendment to the committee and adopted the amendment from 1 to 7 with a very large consensus. And your parliamentary group withdrew its amendment; it withdrew, as points 8, 9, 10 and one of these points referred to exactly what the Legislative and Legal Service also clearly warned us at yesterday's meeting that the matter was not in place, is not in the context of the article on which the amendment was tabled. But let me read what your added amendment is talking about. You refer to Article 2: In the new Article 29a, the eighth paragraph, which reads as follows, is added: "Despite the third paragraph of Article 21 of this Law, three members are elected on a proposal from the Government, four on a proposal from the National Assembly, two of which are proposed by members of the ruling coalition and two members of the opposition, one on a proposal from the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of public finances and one member on a proposal from the Economic and Social Council. The members of the Supervisory Board shall be elected by the National Assembly by an absolute majority, each member of the Supervisory Board shall be elected individually." And let me point out that this statement of the eighth paragraph you are talking about practically refers to the reference to Article 21 of the Act in the third paragraph, which reads: The members of the Supervisory Board shall be elected by the National Assembly by an absolute majority. Four members shall be elected on a proposal from the Government, one of which shall be proposed by the Economic and Social Council, four on a proposal from the parliamentary groups and one on a proposal from the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of public finances. Each member of the Supervisory Board shall be elected individually. Therefore, from what we have read, it is possible to conclude that there is actually an infringement of Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Act, which is now closed. This is a amendment to the law, and I am also sticking to the Rules of Procedure, and you have mentioned the third paragraph of Article 129, and I would like to point out to you that, in accordance with Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure, it is stated: In the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law, amendments can only be tabled in an article of amendments and amendments to the bill. We know that this is Article 132, or this law, on the proposal of a law amending and supplementing the law. I see that Mr Matevž Frangež would like to continue procedurally. So, from all of this, I ask you to understand that there are enough arguments from which we can conclude that this amendment cannot really go into procedure as we would like. Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u78	I'm trying to illustrate in a plastic way what would have happened if the National Assembly were to consider this amendment. In one article of the law, article 21 of the law, I would say, say, this country is going down. In Article 29a, however, we would say that this country is going up. In one law, we would have two expressly conflicting provisions on how to reach the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding. Otherwise, there are rules in law that the newer rule repeals the former, but I think that it is necessary to conclude that this would be unconstitutional for the adoption of solutions in law, and I am convinced that the decision of the leadership of the National Assembly not to include this National Assembly is correct. It's not a precedent! This is something that should, above all, demonstrate the responsibility of the proposer. Last December, when the Constitutional Court made a clear decision that the referendum on the Slovenian State Holding would not be held, the same agreement between the Minister of Finance, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, and the representative of the opposition, Alenko Bratusek, referred to the same finance minister as irrelevant, irrespective of the agreement which introduced the possibility for the ruling coalition in the previous composition to implement such a composition of the Supervisory Council, it was said that this agreement was irrelevant, since the referendum on the Slovenian State Holding Act would not take place. You had the opportunity to respect the agreement at the time. By the way, I personally don't like that arrangement any better than what it says in marriage today. In any event, it is the political instrumentalisation of a company that manages state property. It's getting on my nerves. It is enough for me and a number of citizens and citizens to have political elites – left, right, it doesn't matter – to re-establish the administration of state property, instead of finally understanding it as something sacred and which must be protected in this country. However, this can only be protected by withdrawing the policy from the management of this state property, but not by continuing to view the staffing as a client list now of one, now of the others. This practice needs to be completed. I support the decision of the leadership of the National Assembly, where it is the only consistent one that protects the normal normative activity of the National Assembly in order to adopt domestic laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Here too, Mr Frangež, you have really gone to the debate, as one of the views has been discussed about everything else, just about the law in fact not; even about the different people. The first one raised Mr. Joseph Jerovšek's hand. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I ask that, because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Frangež be hardened, perhaps even removed from the Chamber. To warn him that the Maribor elections have already ended and that he has lost his election and that he should not prolong the Maribor elections into the procedure of the National Assembly. In fact, the pure abuse of the rules of procedure was and please warn him. Regarding what he said: we also have an institution of the coordinating amendment if there is a lack of consistency in the law, so that your initial implementation, that our amendment cannot, is inappropriate and inconsistent and is contrary to the current practice of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. You have probably already noticed that, following Mr Frangež's procedural proposal, I also orally pointed out that he had come to the debate in the procedural proposal. In view of some doubts, although very clear, Article 21 has the title of the Supervisory Board. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us all take a look at the third paragraph of Article 21 together, who may not have been able to look. What happened last night and it withdrew because the Legal and Legal Service warned, I can see that it wants to be reinstated now. I know you understand me, so I am forced to do as I have decided, in accordance with the rules of procedure. I know there will be opportunities for this to change again when it comes to a new novelty or a further amendment to the law. Do you have a procedure, Mr. Jože Tanko? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I object to you first; you have not decided not to include this in the amendment review. This was decided at the back of the Service of the National Assembly. I am protesting against this way of working that what Members are preparing for debate, like amendments or anything in the National Assembly, is being manipulated by any of the services of the National Assembly. This is a typical example of the rule or management of the Assembly of State from the background, as is the case with state property or will be done, in banks and elsewhere. I suggest you propose that this amendment be voted on in order to be included in the review of the amendments. This is quite simple; if you vote no, we will accept this and we know why, if you do not put it to the vote, and I also understand why – because it came back now that you have taken over the government, the custom of deciding in such an arbitrary way in the backroom what we should even decide in the National Assembly and discuss. I know that the matter is unpleasant, I know that you are inconsistent, others also know that you are inconsistent, that the ultimate requirements that apply to a coalition, as soon as you have the opportunity to enforce them, put them down and overlook – your demands! That's the principle of work. And it is not enough that we are here politically weighing the vote, but we need to use all the apparatus available to you — the services of the National Assembly. Dear Vice-President, I propose that we vote on this. I would like this proposal of ours, which eliminates this inconsistencies that I have brought to your attention and you have also submitted it in writing, to be signed by two of them, including former Minister of Finance, Mr Šuštersič. Thus, the coalition has itself enough votes with two parties to vote without anyone helping it. But I suggest that at least so much tolerance in the National Assembly in this new work, when we have a new power to vote on it at least.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much for everything you've said. I wish to maintain the level of debate that is needed. I'm in charge of the National Assembly, I'm the Vice-President, and I stick to the Rules of Procedure. I've made my decision. However, in order for anyone to have any doubts, I am taking a break until 1:00; so, 9 minutes of recess, and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly will explain the matter, which I think is right, even though it is clear to you who are proposing that I am right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u84	Your Honor! We continue the suspension of the 13th session of the National Assembly. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the representative of the Legislative-Legal Service or the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service of Mr Bož Strlett to explain the procedural proposal or to give his opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members! As the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stated at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and orally pointed out that the amendment you are currently considering is unacceptable, so I now repeat that this amendment to Article 2, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 2, which adds the eighth paragraph in the new Article 29a, which forms an exception to Article 21, paragraph 3, of the Act, constitutes a substantive amendment to this paragraph. Since the proposed amendment is a substantive intervention in an article that is not subject to amendment, such an amendment, in our view, as we have already stated yesterday, is not admissible. 132. Article 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides in the first paragraph that amendments may only be tabled in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law and in addition to the amendment. Article 21 of the Act is not amended or supplemented in the amendment. Such practice would therefore, in our view, constitute an unacceptable circumventing of the provisions of Article 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Thank you for your explanation. Mr. Jože Tanko, do you have a procedural procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I proposed a vote on the inclusion of the amendment. I would like to inform you, however, that I can accept the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and I am familiar with it, but the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is not a consensus or a veto on what we are proposing to Members. If that were the case, then a wide variety of decisions in the National Assembly would be different, because we are Members of the political parties and so on – and the services of the National Assembly are not decided. They don't make decisions! However you address this, Madam President, this proposal needs to be voted on in order for the amendment to be placed on the agenda for the review of the amendments. All other interpretations or attempts at interpretations are a departure from parliamentary democracy. We are now acting as if the ZPS is a party in the decision-making process, but it is not. The PSC shall draw up an opinion which may or may not be taken into account by members of the National Assembly. If we vote on the proposal, then you will express your will on this and take into account whether or not the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. We can't avoid it. Dear Vice-President, I propose that we decide on this, as we sometimes do on the working bodies, in a different way from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and as we have already decided in the National Assembly, in a different way than the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, because this is part of a procedure that is not even mandatory at this stage in which we are now. The Legal and Legal Service has given your opinion upon your express wish. We have not requested this and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, what has already been done with regard to the Legislative and Legal Service has already been remedied by a meeting of the working body. So let's not waste time. I suggest you put a motion for a trial to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The meeting shall be chaired by me and in accordance with Article 282 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which shall specify, in the first paragraph, that, during the meeting of the National Assembly or its working body, the rules of procedure shall be interpreted by the chairman. It is also because of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that I have decided that this amendment is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so we will not decide on this amendment. However, I propose to the Group of Members, Mr Tanko or as your leader, that you make a proposal to the Committee on Rules of Procedure if you are assessing that any of these matters are not in line with your proposal for amendments. We are moving on to the debate on Article 2 of the Act and on the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? He does. I'm opening an application for discussion. The application shall be made. The first one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government! First of all, I regret this complication that we witnessed. That's too bad. On the other hand, I am pleased to say that we have almost five and a half hours at our disposal for the amendment of the New Slovenia Group and about that much time, honestly, we have also spent on our reflection in this direction, how to establish as effectively as possible some new elements of control over the management of state property. Even at this time, when this complication may have seemed somewhat excessive, one of the best Slovenian companies in state-owned ownership signed at least one advisory contract for a few tens of thousands of euros, not all citizens, but only with any individual or better, my fellow citizens. And it was in this direction that our reflection and the proposal for a solution went, how Slovenian public, who probably has the right to what is happening in state companies, how to present to the public information that is interesting to the public. Let me quite frankly say that the background for the proposal for our solution was presented by the supervisor. We all know him very well, it is a website that is very well visited, or when it was presented that it had been beaten, as far as visitors visit, by all records. It has been well received, we also welcome the supervisor upgrades, but we are aware that it is technically impossible to draw the analogy of this supervisor, this application, with state-owned companies. Therefore, we propose a solution that looks technically so that all those business entities, including natural persons and legal persons, who cooperate with companies that are in the SDH classification, are up to 30. 6. For the past year SDH is reported the amount of its business cooperation, the so-called net invoiced realisation, if it is more than EUR 10 000 and SDH provides insight into these transactions into these business partners of these companies within SDH and is then in the form of an application available to the Slovenian public. I think that more than the Supervisory Board, more than the Court of Auditors and I don't know who else is the best supervisory authority that can and also has the right to look into such business relations. Namreč, the New Slovenia Group remains in line with the principles we have always had since the creation of the Slovenian State Holding Act or the Slovenian State Holding Act. We have never been sympathetic to the Court of Auditors having the right to supervise SDH, dependent companies and so on. In the final stage, if we look at the Law on the Court of Auditors, it does not explicitly state that it has the right to have access to state-owned companies as regards its audit powers. You may say that this is because SDH is some kind of successor to the Court of Auditors and the Court is indeed subject to the supervision of the Court of Auditors. If you ask a serious Slovenian manager, he will probably laugh at you when he reads that SDH and its subsidiaries are committed to providing information of a public nature. See, one is companies that have their own so-called core business and the other is other institutions that are obliged to provide information of a public nature. In fact, with all these different controls, it's likely to be the result of the slaughterhouses. I'll tell you this from practice. The problem is that companies will invest in the service of supervisory authorities as much energy as possible, especially SDH and subsidiaries. Last but not least, the Government, the Supervisory Board, the Court of Auditors, then servicing as a public information servicer and so on. Our solution practically costs nothing. If anyone has any questions about the fact that this is an additional burden for companies cooperating with SDH and subsidiaries, I will explain that this is practically an extract of data from the so-called invoiced realization, so that we are not causing any additional costs. Surely, however, we reveal to the Slovenian public all persons who cooperate with SDH as well as the level of business contracts if you want. Of course, I ask you to ask any further questions in the debate, or I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! All of today's events and yesterday on the committee and in this interim period, since the new authorities took over the leadership of the country, explain and prove to us that in the current coalition or at least that part that was previously in the opposition, you have taken very seriously and in fact considered that the Slovenian State Holding is an opportunity for wild privatisation and that this, as the President of the National Assembly has said, is in line with your thinking of publishing this country. By amending this law you want to operationalize this matter, but of course from now on you will argue that you will work transparently, transparently, although we all find that this transparency and transparency are being scrupulously defended. This has also prevented you from considering an amendment that would introduce a little more transparency in your work that you have already agreed on — obviously! Madam Vice-President, you've previously paraphrased Socrates in a strange way – I know I don't know anything – because he knew too much, he knew so much, but you said, "I know I know," but you didn't say, "because I don't know enough what's going on back there." I must say that this amendment, which is now the only one that we can discuss, with which it is the power to do something, is extremely logical, but in fact it is a blessing thirsty for what you have already concluded in the back. See, the President of the Government, Mrs Bratušek, explained through Europe that we need time — a new power. But apparently she spent very little time changing her position on the management of this holding company; she did not need any extra time here. Here, however, at the moment she became an official, she changed her position that neither the opposition nor the Slovenian public had anything to look at to this state holding company and the way you will have this huge property. I believe that part of the change in this position and the agreement on how this will be managed or how it will be used for strict private interests was that famous walk in Ankara on 13 April between the President of the Government, Mrs Bratušek, and Mr Jankovic. I hear there's been a lot of backstage meetings. Here you explain that Mr Jankovic no longer has an impact on the policy of Positive Slovenia. Things are happening in the back. And they say they're also talking about all the donations, the sponsors and how to power strict political projects out of this huge asset. It's all been arranged. I suppose you might even accept this amendment as a fig leaf, because you know that, to bypass things that are up to 100,000 euros, that's a change for your option. This may be a fig leaf to make it even easier for you to work in the back, and then you'll show a little bit that it was pointed at some, say, political parties. All you're going to do is show the change, and the mass of the money will go away. What Mr Weber predicted would be savage privatisation had its concept in mind, how you were doing when we were in power, and how you plan to work now. This concept is obviously very strong and the current law is the operationalization of this concept. For this reason, I must stress once again: this article is useful, but of course it will not reject you in what you have decided at these walks and meetings, which are conspirative and happen in the backstage where Jankovic still decides. And even I hear that Mr Kuntarich is not manageable enough. Think about it! Your members have said that, for Jankovic, Mr Kuntarič, who will now carry out this property at the outset, is not sufficiently manageable. You publicly acknowledge that some director who will have this property for Mr Jankovic is not manageable enough and that he must have a dummy set up there to manage all this Slovenian property. This is gonna be a big betrayal of this country! Ladies and gentlemen, it would be appropriate to reconsider to return the amendment that we have proposed, that these strong appetites of your Mr Jankovic and all others who wish to benefit from this property, we stop, stop and stop and try to draw this country out of the mud, but not to deepen the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's a wish to discuss. Procedural? Here you go, Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. I think we know that the agenda item is set to discuss amendments now. President-in-Office, I propose that you also point out to future debaters who will discuss the walks, especially to Mr Jankovic, that this really makes no sense and no contact with the topic that we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Indeed, I have already warned before the debate; I am reminding all colleagues and colleagues to focus on the amendments tabled in the framework of the Slovenian State Holding Act. Anybody else want to discuss this? Representative of the Government, Madam Secretary of State Mag. Matthew Vranicar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to comment on the amendment's proposal. The amendment is written in such a way that it fully replaces Article 29a, which means that it replaces the audit powers of the Court of Auditors by the public publication of certain data. It also removes any additions entered in paragraph 29a yesterday with regard to the provision of information of a public nature and regarding procurement. I don't think that's appropriate and appropriate. However, as far as the content of the proposed amendment is concerned, I call into question its relevance and its ingenuity. The first paragraph imposes a certain obligation to report to persons operating with state-owned enterprises. The concept of a state firm is not defined in any more detail in the law and the obligation is imposed on business partners, I assume that companies in which SDH has a stake or investment. In addition, according to paragraph 3, SDH has to suspend its business with an independent company, with its subsidiary, i.e. the company which it has set up, if that independent person, its business partner, has not sent the data. The reporting does not involve SDH’s subsidiary, but involves persons, their business partners. This is simply not feasible in practice. In addition, with regard to these publications, in my opinion, given the number of investments to which this is applicable, this article introduces something in the legal matter which, on the one hand, is already fairly regulated either in the anti-corruption legislation or in the applicable SDH law itself, where it would point in particular to the provisions of Article 29 concerning anti-corruption clauses and the provision of Article 30, which in essence lays down reporting requirements for both SDH and companies in which SDH has a capital investment. In essence, if I sum up, I estimate that this article would be practically impractical in practice and would also impose a disproportionate administrative burden on SDH itself. I do not think it is appropriate to burden society with certain administrative procedures, but we must train it to do what we are establishing it for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 2? Anyone else? Otherwise, Mr. Joseph Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I admit that we may have been a little awkward because it might have been more effective to make this amendment a compliment to Article 29a, perhaps it would have been better if it had been a new Article 29.b. We wanted to open the debate, but it looks like it's a failure because it's obviously a misunderstanding or a lack of will to make SDH a supervisor. That's what we wanted. And without one dime of extra taxpayer's money. If you want, I will arrange for someone to make an application such as a supervisor, free of charge, it will cost neither SDH nor the state budget. It is an application that would be filled with information made as an extract by a business partner who works with companies – we may have written awkwardly, by state companies, but more accurate are given in the classification. We know exactly what they are, but unfortunately we don't have the classifications yet, and we'll probably have them sometime. But if not, then it's all just fishing in the mud. It is, therefore, that if we make available information with which business entities and also natural persons work my and your municipality, why should we not then have information with which business entities and natural persons work for Telekom, any other company that is on the list of classifications. What's wrong with that?Oh, my God! That's the content. I also expect from this government and this government coalition so much honesty and so much honesty that it will incorporate it into the renewed, as promised, Slovenian State Holding Act. It costs nothing, but it will be extremely effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Mr. Ivan Grill or I'll open an application for debate. Five panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the amendment proposed by the New Slovenia, I think it is well-intentioned and should be supported or could be found otherwise to include this purpose, which this amendment or this extension pursues, in this law too. We all agree that corruption exists, that non-transparent is still very present, especially in state-owned enterprises or where large assets are managed and not least with large money. And what is more effective than that such information is accessible in this way, as proposed by Nova Slovenije, so that anyone who wants can also verify it. That is why this statement or statement by the Secretary of State to make this too complicated has put too much emphasis on administrative bureaucracy for these companies in SDH, does not convince me. Look where the will is, there's a way. It is necessary to make an effort, and in this way every shadow of doubt that will arise all the time, to try not to completely eliminate it, but to at least soften it. This very observation, including by the current coalition, when you were in the opposition that this law brings intransparency, as we have heard many times from Mr Weber, that this is the place of the century, that the place of the century will be the great betrayal of the century. Now that's an opportunity, let's get this thing fixed a little bit. If we cannot or if there is no will to put such a composition in the supervisory council, where the proposed opposition also has the possibility of controlling this property in order to enable it to do so. Let us also show this honesty in this way, not just to say how now the matter will be more transparent, how now it will be more effective when we know or see that this is not the case. It is precisely these solutions, as well as the statements made by the Minister of Finance, that within the time frame - now I think that 14 days – by the Government – is under the table - a prepared classification of what they will sell without criteria, without any strategy in advance, probably without prices, and, on the other hand, such a well-intentioned solution, at least, appears to be rejected. Once again; think first of all in the coalition that this amendment or this solution has also been added. As I have already said, I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u101	Vice President, thank you so much for saying this. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I also agree, as my predecessors, with the need to support Article 29a, which would somehow add to Article 29 of the amendments themselves and to supplement the Slovenian State Holding Act with an additional guardian. I believe that only the functioning of state-owned enterprises must be transparent, that transparency of business is that key aspect and the obligation towards our taxpayers. It's not just state-owned enterprises; we have state-owned companies with another specificity that we don't talk about here many times. These companies are monopolized. These companies have monopolies and these companies also have the biggest cash flow in Slovenia that we can talk about. It's a cash flow of a few hundred million. At Petrol, let's say we're talking billions, the 3.2 billion euro circus. Another thing I am interested in is the scope of these state-owned companies that will be in the state-owned holding company. For someone with a monopoly on the market, it's interesting where he puts his advertising. If I look, for example, although it is not now in the state holding company, that RTV Slovenia is strongly advertised in Youth, and that it has all the big pages in Youth, I wonder what the economic impact is or what the economic result is of such advertising by some companies – Petrol, Telekom. Literally, this advertising cake is somehow shared among different entities in the country in some extremely non-transparent way. The final effect, which must be of interest to those who put us here in Parliament, is how they are deprived. with untransparent and some non-optimisation of its business costs – or, in particular, costs – comes at the end of the year through the profits of these companies to the country as owner of the minimum amount of that profit even back into the budget. Since a minimum amount is coming back into the budget, this hole is not as full in the budget as we have now that it is not so filled. Indirectly, wages in the public sector, social transfers and everything else are being cut. Some citizens and citizens may not be aware of what it means to operate in a non-transparent manner, to optimise certain costs, even in these companies, if these companies go to another property. We are always aware that if I own it, I am an increasingly better owner than the state. Since a civil servant at night or afternoon at three locks the office and leaves, I, as a private owner, am always obliged to watch costs, reduce costs, optimize costs and maximize this profit. This is the essence of the market economy and this is also the essence of some market economic logic. But we, through these companies, which are some kind of historical final product of this transition story and which we somehow have never been able to sell, even at a time when these companies somehow reached a rather high price in the European, global burden. I believe it is imperative that, at least in this previous period, until these companies are sold so that their transparency can be demonstrated in the best possible way. I also believe that the amendment tabled by Members of New Slovenia is welcome. In particular, it gives some security, some greater transparency to all taxpayers, to somehow see who those entities operating with these companies are. Are these prices transparent or are these prices marketed when they supply anything? It sounds like a lot of things, it sounds like a whole bunch of Ljubljana lawyers are kind of like parasites attached, like, to these state-owned companies with different contracts, despite the fact that these companies have some of their own lawyers, the whole legal service. The outside lawyers are still somehow attached. These are the things that raise certain doubts among our taxpayers, and they always wonder why these lawyers live a super-standard luxury life, despite the fact that these companies operate in their profession with some minimal intellectual services, for which they demand abnormally high prices. And at the end of the year, when we get the effects of these companies – just two days ago we were able to read that Petrol paid 900 euros in regress to his employees. For a whole range of public servants or even a number of our workers who work for 600, 700 euros in companies, the regression may not be nearly enough or will be minimal. Here we always wonder about the unfairness of some of the positions that some people have in these companies, some of the strengths they have in these companies. At least this power should be presented in at least a little bit more transparently under this amendment: who does business, how does business, what transfer prices operate, who are these entities. I believe that this is a minimum standard of some democratic countries in which, due to their historical divisiveness, or the history of their economic policies, these companies are still in the majority ownership of the country. That is how I personally support and believe that you, some colleagues and colleagues, will also recognize that this amendment is necessary. At least for this previous period, as long as these companies – at least the ones we will somehow find ready to sell or sell – have to be disinvested by our state-owned companies or a small part of these effects that we have to impose. I personally believe that this amendment is urgently needed and that you too will see it confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u103	Nice greeting, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, Minister, Secretary of State! I would also like to express my support for the amendment to Article 2. As has already been said by the proponent and other discussers before me, the basic intention of this amendment is to introduce greater transparency in the management of state assets. Even in explaining the reasons for the amendment of this Slovenian State Holding Act, the Government has also demonstrated this urgency and also by the media as a key achievement of this amendment, the amendment of the law in order to make it more transparent. I myself agree with the basic dictatorship, which is in this Article, that the Court of Auditors of Slovenia revises the operation of the Slovenian State holding company and subsidiaries. As I have already said, I support the fact that a greater review would also be of the business of these companies, and in this way also in Slovenian society, they would try to resolve a great deal of doubt as to whether, with Slovenian state property, the masters have been fair or, as many say, that the management of this property has been dominated mainly by predatory logic over the past 20 years, and that this state property has also greatly reduced this logic, has also been lost, and that many jobs have also been lost due to the very management of this property. Intension itself, the purpose of the established law went this way last year to first bring together the owner of the state property in the Slovenian State Holding, to make it transparent through the investment classification process and the proposal for guidelines for the management of these investments, that this management from one place is as effective as possible and that the public also has an overview of this management. Regrettably, Article 5 of this amendment is also part of the Law. I think that in this Article 5 we are again doing what we have done in this country many times in the field of state-owned property management when it has also been said on the committee that we are looking for a temporary solution and at the same time allowing conditions for this, once mentioned, predatory logic. For as long as we do not have the accepted classification of investments, we have already heard the coalition's position today that what has been prepared is wrong; we have not received a better proposal to finally be confirmed by the National Assembly, how we will manage strategic investments, not just what we will sell, how we will sell ourselves to define what this country needs to have in this economic substance in the coming years, so that the economy will go the right way. Now that this decision is passed to the Court, which was already appointed in the preceding week, where the overseers of the Court are now appointed by the key you have determined, there are no guidelines in the National Assembly on how to manage state property. Since in Article 5, we will then give free hands to dispose of this property of up to 20 million, I am afraid, or I can say in advance, that this predatory attitude towards Slovenian property will continue in the future. That is why I support the amendment prepared by the New Slovenia Group. I estimate that the opposition to the reception and enforcement of the Slovenian holding company carried out by the then opposition today, in the second half of last year, with all opposition in Parliament, including by the introduction of the law itself to the Constitutional Court, that this manoeuvre was successful in last year. Now that the classification and management guidelines have been rejected, it will be left to the Court and the cabinet of the President of the Government and the people of the Ministry to manage this property in their own way. I myself think that this is the way back from the so much needed and so many times expressed transparency that we would urgently need in this area; transparency, which would also give the Slovenes and Slovenes the confidence that policy is worthy of managing their assets, is said to be state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, representatives of the government! Holding was created along with the opposition at the time in order to bring matters together in one place in order to manage state assets as transparently as possible. Now with the disassembly and today's meeting of the National Assembly, when from classification to guidelines you dismantle holding and now at this point you are amending the holding law, you have done everything you can to avoid this transparency. That this will remain scattered, as it was. Look, if it wasn't for that, then we'd leave the control council of the Court the way it was. No! No! First, you went to take care of him politically. First of all, you have placed in the supervisory council of the Court of Human Beings, who will obviously be manageable enough to work untransparently enough so that you can have things in your hands. By the way, something like this is happening these days with the control council Optimo leasing in the Ljubljana Bank, or you are probably not there yet, but the pigs that are going on around there will come to these tables as soon as possible. If we had little fair purpose, we would not have written that the members of the Supervisory Board are members until the election and appointment of members, under the Slovenian National Holding Act, but also say that they can be up to five years at most. In short, we could limit it here as well. If you're talking about June, then I don't know why it's necessary to do what you did during the transition period, and now I'm still opposed to this nice amendment, which could be called the New Slovenia's mild-mannered thirsty, nothing more, and to oppose at least one minimalized review. When you were in the opposition, you wanted all the ways — all up and down, left and right — all the controls, now that you're in the coalition, you turn the board, and you don't want any of this, or you put it all under your wing. Today I have asked the question on behalf of the parliamentary group, but I will continue to say what my colleague Starman said – but I am a little more concrete with names and names and actors in this political game – is this the withdrawal of the state, the policy from business and what is the goal? These two issues are the most important. All the possible solutions that they propose – and this amendment, as I said before, is a milder thirsty – you simply reject and give no chance. Even more is asked what this will bring tomorrow and tomorrow in international markets. I think today is 5.9 or how much the price of our 10-year bond is on the market. Neighbouring countries have a 2-, 3-percent bond yield there. But it's not what you do here. So today, in all three matters, we discussed exactly what we should not be doing. When the government changes, it changes. Okay. But it shouldn't change everything. So it's management and transparency with state property! You'll say that's what happened. It's true, it's been that way for 22 years. So there were 17 years of left - handed governments in power. In the last year, it was not the coalition itself that prepared, together with the opposition, that it prepared and corrected matters. The current President of the Government – I read earlier from her magnetogram – even then here, as a member of Parliament, said that some of the amendments had settled. Why don't you take this step forward and we would also now have support in the current opposition and go in the direction of transparency and transparency. I don't know if I have the right information, but my colleague Starman often speaks very clearly and explicitly about the figures that were made last year - from one of his discussions - I think that from 70 million to 100 million euros in the state budget from the whole of the state's assets was paid out, but from this title there should be at least 700 million, possibly even billions, I think he's even repeated that one more time today. In short, when some of you jump into the luft and so on, why do we mention certain people – yes, if we read in the newspaper, if every day is as much as you want: Jankovic will do this, Jankovic did this, Jankovic leads that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u106	Mr. Pukšič, you can change your last name to Pukšič, say.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u107	You can, Madam President, only then would you rather hang yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to stop you in the debate, but just before, there was a procedural proposal and I would really like to stick with it. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Mr. Jerovšek, did you want anything? No, no, no. Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u109	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Already in the introduction, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have stressed that the SDS will always support such proposals that will contribute to greater efficiency, more responsible business, more cost-effective business and more transparent state-owned business. We certainly assess that the New Slovenia proposal, paragraph 29a, guarantees some greater transparency, transparency, efficiency and more cost-effective business. It is certainly interesting to look at in the past period in particular questions and contentions concerning advisory contracts that occur mainly in direct or indirect state-owned enterprises. We know that some media have tried to access this data, but from 11 companies owned by the majority state or indirect state ownership none of these companies wanted to disclose the advisory contracts they have, for what purpose they signed them, why they signed them. No! No! We read the latest information about Adria Airways – it has a sales advisory agreement. Aviation experts say that the companies proposed by the Swiss consultancy company as potential candidates for the purchase of these companies are not the rescuers of the company. On the other hand, we read that whether the buyer is eligible or sold to Adria Airways, this Swiss company is likely to earn a great deal of money. That's what one of the Slovenian portals says. We also estimate that it is necessary to make business more transparent and that the public will also know where the money flows from state-owned enterprises. On the other hand, I would still repeat what we said at the outset, that we do not understand this lack of consistency between Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. In the opposition, they defend one criterion when they are in the position of government, defending other criteria. I still have not received an answer from the current coalition members and Members, not from the Ministry, for which they decided to miss four points which were a condition for the withdrawal of referendum signatures. Above all, I am interested in why the composition of the Supervisory Board has changed. Both Positive Slovenia and Social Democrats have advocated that the opposition must have greater influence in the supervisory world. Why did you take that away? Why did you not give this matter to both Members and Members of Parliament on this side and on the other hand to the representatives of the Ministry? At least explain where the reasons are. Explain that we will know. It will be interesting today to see MEPs and members of the Social Democrats who will probably press the button to change and complement the novel on the Slovenian State Holding. Three months ago, we listened: the places of the century, the treachery! You'll confirm that today, but probably only because you're a government coalition. Tell me, what's making these changes now? The main goal, probably, was on your part – the overthrow of the government of Janez Janša – and now things are going their way. At least by the representative of the Ministry of Finance, I expect answers, for which four points have been omitted, which were so enthusiastically defended two or three months ago, and also conditional upon the withdrawal of the referendum signatures. I personally estimate that the calvary by managing state assets will continue. When will you serve with the classification? Word is, by midsummer, you're going to be giving a new bill. We understand from the media that there will be no transfer of ownership to the state holding company. Then we won't be able to talk about holding, we won't be able to talk about management anymore, but we will talk about management only, and leadership is the direct influence of politicians on all decisions of companies. I wonder what it'll be like if there's no transfer of ownership. The Court or SDH will have to make a decision, then the owner's consent will have to be obtained, otherwise this is not the case. This means that the owner will be directly involved; and this is management, not management. I wonder what the OECD will say — whether it will agree with this or not? Or, on the other hand, it is probably intentional delay that certain privatisation procedures may be introduced in this interim period in a way that only one will like and that personal partial interests will continue. Most of these proposals and the comments that the coalition will delete today have been adopted on the proposal of the Social Democrats and the Positive Slovenia. But today, when you're in position, you're going to change these things and delete them. On the other hand, the question for the Civil Gazette, which was preparing, was also being prepared by their minister. Two days before the vote on the Committee on Finance, the National Gazette made clear that they would support the classification – unfortunately. They say one thing, they do the other, but you take responsibility for it. Once again: the SDS will always support such proposals, such solutions as will help to improve the efficient, transparent and more cost-effective management of state assets.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see a desire for a debate, and then I open my application for a debate. Let me tell you, we are still under Article 2 and the amendment tabled by New Slovenia. Four panellists have been reported. The first one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, allow me to warn you that the chairman is meeting, not making observations to the debaters. I think that here you are Members of Parliament who have applied for the debate, and whether we are coalition or opposition, we deserve it. Secondly, I must say that in this Chamber I seriously miss the President of the National Assembly, Mr Weber, to explain how he views this theft of the century now that he is a coalition Member, when he is President of the National Assembly. When we were preparing this law, it was the worst evil of the country, without explaining why, but it was. At that time, we were characterized by the fact that we literally want to steal 10 or not know how many billion assets. Now that we are adopting this amendment to the law, I would like to explain to the President of the National Assembly how he is now looking at the exact same matter as the coalition MP and the President of the National Assembly – now that his status has changed. He also performed very vehemently at the time when we adopted this law and spoke of treason. I would now like a fellow Member to list the names of the traitors. In fact, this is fundamental to what we can ask of him. Now we are at a stage when you have completed this law in one way or another, in my imperfect sense, in some parts you have made it significantly worse, and now it would be good to hear who those big-time traitors who will now manage, decide and so forth with this state property, which is 8, 10, 12 billion; that is, depending on the opening balance and valuation. Those answers are missing here. Even in February, when Mr Weber first took office as President of the National Assembly, he spoke precisely about this: about treason and everything I said earlier that the sale of state property is harmful and that all these problems must be highlighted out loud. This person is missing here when a month ago she had a whole bunch of characteristics for all those who proposed this solution to the law. I'm curious, and I don't know who's going to answer that. Mrs Alenka Bratušek said at the meeting on 26 September that the composition of the Supervisory Council is absolutely so important that they do not think and will not give up. Ms Alenka Bratušek is now the President of the Government, she is no longer a member of the opposition. As the President of the Government, as the first man of the coalition in the executive branch of power, she proposed a amendment to the law and such an exclusive requirement – which she then said and repeated several times and, by December, entered into the requirements of withdrawing the signatures under the request for a referendum for the Slovenian State Holding – there is no in this law. But what has changed so radically at this time that it is no longer absolutely priority and absolutely so important that it cannot be abandoned? Now that's exactly what happened! We do not get an answer to these inconsistencies, we do not get an answer from either one representative, who is at the top of the legislative branch of government, and there is no response from the President of the Government, who is at the top of the third or executive branch of government. What are these changes and the reasons for such diametric deviations in these areas?Oh, my God! Why can't this be explained in this National Assembly? If it can ever — if it can ever be thought that treachery and a place of national property would occur — it is now that there are no more rules to do so. You rejected the classification, you rejected the guidelines, and now it's a ruleless matter. Now you're talking about selling two, three important companies, that's what those are selling, and it's probably about selling some kind of company in the field of derivatives, telecommunications and one bank. I think Mr Weber has even explicitly said that he does not agree to the sale of a telecommunications company. But I wonder why all of a sudden such a radical departure from what was said not long ago. It bothers me so much that no one can explain it. It bothers me so much! President of the Government, we have her, we have the President of the National Assembly – they are both somewhere nearby and they do not want to comment on their statements. His statements. What is happening in this human resources sense is, in my opinion, also a problem. Before this Law on the Slovenian State Holding, we had a law on the Court and we had an Agency for Capital Investment Management. What was the operation of both institutions, we probably know about it; that in the best year given by some Members, including Mr Weber, for example, this year is 2011, 34 million euros in dividends in the state budget and 507 million financial recapitalisations, without other recapitalisations, which were still strong over a billion or almost two. And now those who then managed state property, in one or another role, are returned in one way or another to the leadership of the Soda and, as a result, to the leadership of the Slovenian State Holding Company. It is said that the guarantee for the perfect management of state property, in your opinion, is somehow coming back to this story. How is it possible to regain an important role in this system of persons who have not proved themselves in the management of state property? I think that's unacceptable, and someone should explain that, too. As far as this amendment is concerned, I think this amendment is necessary. Mr Starman, who is one of the best, if not the best, Slovenian health care provider of companies in difficulty – in fact, I think he has saved four or revived four companies, including Mura, including Jelovica, also one shoe company and more – said more or less every time he applied for the debate, that they are the biggest problem of the contract. Advisory contracts. In companies that were dying, advisory contracts were a key problem. A bunch of pendants that drew money for such and other services, but we've been doing business here, whether we're going to fix the company or not. I think it's similar in other companies. You recently, a day or two ago, brought us a bill, explained that this law was needed to recapitalise or give a financial injection to Cimos. No one says that a public institution called the Blue Insurance Company has been "intruded" there, and no one has touched the responsibility of the owner of the works of state property with a single word. Nobody! A key problem for the entire National Assembly, for coalition, SD, Positive Slovenia is how we will solve this company. An integral part of the same package is the responsibility of those who did so. The Prime Minister of the Government said that we would only fix companies with a perspective. I do not know now whether an economic society, although I do not object to the fact that it has 400 million annual traffic and 400 million Euros of obligations, is promising in the sense that it can be done. I guess this is where he's going on with some other business. The problem is responsibility. And those who accept these solutions must somehow demand responsibility. It's about enormous amounts, about enormous assets, it's about enormous uncontrolled outflows, and you're selling it to a corner of recovery, some help. I think that's irresponsible. We read stories relating to a Slovenian municipality and there public money flies around and around. We, or you — not us, you — then somehow abused the establishment of some consortium in the banking system, that some companies were carrying out a project that was very important to Slovenia. Finally, we find that part of this has been circulated in all sorts of matters and private accounts — those that have approved and pushed forward this project. And nothing. There is no institution in the country that would do something similar to the one done by Hypo Bank: and they came, locked, taken away, solved. However, you are engaged in all marginal matters, who has looked in the wrong direction, who may have been accused of any suspicion of nepotism, and so on. Bagatela! Key things, 100 million dollars or more running like you cut your wrists and they would give you a transfusion. It would just run through the system, on one side inside, on the other side out. That's what you do. I think that before we proceed with this debate on this amendment of the law, which in particular facilitates the management of state property – it is extremely facilitating because it takes away all the rules – to get answers to these key things that are no longer in the law, or to comment on the statements that have burdened the previous team with certain observations, stickers, discredits and so on. The fact that we've been accused of the thefts of the century isn't easy. You don't get rid of that in the next century. The fact that we were accused of high treason by those who supported this law is probably not easy. For high treason, sometimes severe sanctions have been imposed, and probably all those who have said it and said it again are aware of it. It would be nice, right, to explain how with these procedures forward, how you will work with this upgrade of high treason. Actually, it's an upgrade. I would expect the answers of the most responsible people in this country, that is to say, the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I must say that I also think that you — when this law is passed — are the most powerful ones at the time talking about treason — are strangely inactive today that you have been abandoned by all the imagination that transparency is no longer necessary in this country with regard to the management of state property, even if it is available without control and this change in transparency is incredible. I also see roughly the same change at the same time in the same parties as plagiarism and plagiarism. That's no longer a problem. But we are discussing an extremely important matter, and when we are talking about this inactiveness of yours, I am politically fully aware that the President of the National Assembly has avoided today's topic and that today's debate has had a tremendous deal to say and talked about treason. Apparently today he gave up the meeting at this point, he disappeared, he didn't. Perhaps if he were to work here today, it would be damaging for him not to receive any rewards for the propagandist. Now he'll be able to get it because he won't eat his words. Look, when we talk about this amendment – I said before that at least part of it is a medicine, a minimum possibility for some transparency, transparency. For, after this inaction of yours, I see that these rumors are that the advisory contracts at the expense of the future Slovenian state holding company have already been written and that they have already been changed, how much money has someone received, and which institution, and which parties, how much are they responsible for. If we translate this, we can understand that recruitment of supervisors into the Slovenian Compensation Society. There you have politically divided up to a millimeter precisely, even for most media there is no longer a problem with the political recruitment of supervisors. You have chosen such people who will strictly respect this division. It is quite clear that there are two people, two people from the Ljubljana Magistrate or direct extension in this Supervisory Committee. I would like you to tell me today how much money you have agreed to with these grants and advisory contracts to fly away as soon as it reaches SDH, because Mr Jankovic was an excellent master for donations. It's amazing. Anyone who wanted to work with state money in Ljubljana had to make a donation. Now you've legitimized it, you understand. You're going to legitimize all of this, how it's going to go on. As the Prime Minister says, you need time for other things. You need time for other people, and you've made a lot of money here in the first place. Where it is necessary to work on transparency and others, which are important things to operationalise in a transparent way, there is no longer a hurry. But we're in a hurry to replace the director in the archive. And this is important for this country at the moment it's on the verge of bankruptcy. That's me. This is your favorite theme – staffing. With this amendment, the proponents - and I agree - try to give you a small chance that you would not succeed in all that you have already agreed that some, as they say by the kulours, already written sponsoring advisory contracts, donor contracts, decisions should be withdrawn or retained. This will be the lacumus paper, which one of you has ever honestly talked about the transparency of the availability and management of state property. Anyone who won't even hope to raise his hand or press the keys is the perfect hostage of those who run this coalition. Colleagues and fellow Members, be aware that such tactics are that not one word can say about the transparency of the management of the Slovenian State holding company today, that it is short-term, that it has short legs. Even when the law was passed, you had an idea. Our citizens, our constituents will see this changed attitude of yours, this longing for corruption that is to be predicted. I don't see any hardship, I'd rather those in the First League of Positive Slovenia withdraw, make plans, maybe they're already signing sponsorship contracts, I don't know, maybe the rest of you don't even know. I see you're a remarkable prisoner of power. Sometimes the Minister came here to explain, now we don't even have that, and this way we're demolished in the National Assembly. I don't agree with your shameless methods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u115	Seven times I wanted to be procedural when Jože was performing, and seven times I passed. I mean, that's really impossible, Jože! You're an artist, a professor, a doctor of conspiracies, I was just waiting for you to bring the partisans here, and we'll start talking about the partisans and the NOB. But please – I agree with you – transparency is most important – but, Jože, please don't teach me transparency when you last ruled, changing people in energy companies, in control councils, without any agreement, even in coalitions. You didn't even ask the People's Party or New Slovenia, you did your own thing. If there's anything I can learn from you, I don't want to learn about the history of this House, and I don't want to learn about transparency from you. Please remind him of this when he speaks of such conjectures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Han. Mr. Joseph Horvath is on his way now, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I was hoping that our former fellow Member, the current Minister in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, would continue to be present, Mr Mag. Stanko Stepišnik to perhaps explain another matter to him. Simply because I respect him from the parliamentary benches and I know he's an honest man and that he knows something or knows a lot about management. Allow me to express my feelings aloud. I feel somehow that even the coalition MPs in the soul support this amendment, which can be demonstrated by the fact that there is no debate. Of course, they are clear instructions on voting, but even if this idea is ever implemented in the reformed Slovenian State Holding Act, we will be happy, even if it does not receive support today, but I thank my opposition colleagues for their support. There has been a lot of talk about transparency because this amendment brings transparency in the broadest sense. Transparency or more Slovenian, although it is also a Slovenian word, transparency. What are we trying to achieve? Once again, we want to achieve that if I look at the business of an economic society that is in a classification – which has not yet been accepted – or, say, of Telekom in particular, to see exactly which companies, espouses and individuals with this society, which is state-owned or partial state-owned, participate and at what level. Is that a problem? And that doesn't cost anything. As I said, we've never been raised and no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There's a Court of Auditors here. Nobody said how much it cost. If we say that we now hang this task to the Court of Auditors and say that it costs nothing, then we implicitly state that the Court of Auditors has unused capacity and that – I will not say that nothing works – it works with 70% capacity. Does anyone hope to read it to the Court of Auditors? They'll all be on their feet! Therefore, it is likely that if today the capacity of the Court of Auditors is 100 % used, which would, in accordance with the principle of good management and business optimisation and so on, have to be done, the Court of Auditors will now have to hire new and qualified – not any one from the road, not any of the fellow Members of the Court of Auditors. That's probably worth it. This will be known in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Look, if we don't implement more transparency, if we don't implement this solution, let's call it a social supervisor in the classification, then we'll probably have the protestors or you'll continue to be told that you're stealing from all of us or all of us, or that we're all stealing because they usually come here in front of our house and demand our heads if I say a little more brutally. It is true, however, that as long as the policy in companies, in companies with a share or 100 % state ownership, this will mean that the policy will also set up the management of these companies, the supervisory councils and the supervisory councils of the administrations. Normally and logically, this will happen forever and as long as the policy does not withdraw from the economy for all time; and this is the goal of New Slovenia, that is, because policy will always call a member of the Supervisory Board, or a member of the board, or some director to provide him with a contract – today we have already talked about advisory contracts, today we have talked about advertising contracts and so on. And it will always be, no matter what color the government is. And here's the problem! There's a terrible problem. I tell you this: now that we are discussing this amendment, there must have been a second, maybe a third, maybe a tenth, contract signed for a few 10,000 euros; and there we have on the edge of society people who don't know whether they would buy half a kilo of bread or just a quarter. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we worked together on the Slovenian State Holding Act. We had a greater responsibility then than you, the opposition, we took into account some of your solutions, perhaps I can say a lot. Consider ours now, too. You won't regret it. This will cost nothing, but it will have a major impact – if you give something to transparency, if not, but it is necessary to announce that there is no transparency in the business of companies in part or 100 % of state ownership from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Hercegovac, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u119	Nicely greeted, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Member of the Parliament, Mr Horvath, is talking about contracts. He obviously knows what he's talking about. I suggest we take a 50-minute break to get to the table you're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. This vacation won't be possible. We continue the debate. It's Mr. Roberto Battelli's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Approximately 70%, perhaps even more Slovenian economy or economic and financial assets in Slovenia are policy-owned. That's a monster sum. Or what's left of this property or this economy. I find it difficult to believe that such a result could have been achieved in a way that did not happen, say, at least some abuse of the situation or some illegal abuse and other such notions, criminal and so on. I'm not an expert, but somehow I'm not convinced by the argument that all these procedures were perfectly in line with the law, and I'm not convinced by the argument that those of us who adopted these laws allowed such abuses. That's just not true. However, it is probably true that, somehow from 2004 onwards and beyond, this hub of interests, which has been managed by such assets and with such economic power, has become a problem that has then changed into some sort of internal cannibalism among government parties, and this has then changed into demands for demonisation and elimination of everything that has been here and worked for 20 years and has already shaped life in Slovenia. This is what those who are exactly the product of what they kind of denunciation. At least two governments have fallen because of this; the second Janševa is certainly Pahoreva. In short, this case is in crisis and this is why the whole country is in crisis, this is a monstrous situation. To solve the problems of this node, the whole country suffers and sees no clear way out. It is also good to tell the public and also to tell ourselves that this is the case. This transformation of the public benefit into a private one is what has led to such a situation. I repeat, the arguments that the legislation allows this and that it is not a violation of the law are not convincing. This node controls many things, including the media; directly through ownership and indirectly through advertising. Instead of dealing with what would be most responsible, we face these constant metamorphosises — new faces and so on — it is really just perpetuating this agony of this node. New customers, if you want everything to be good, street, hungry children, partisans, patriots – whatever is used to confuse people and distract attention from this basic problem. The destruction of governments, all that destabilizes, is the source of all this. Why don't we speak clearly? I will support this amendment, this is a drop into the sea, but it does a little bit of transparency. He certainly solves more problems than he's supposed to create. The fact that we cannot get out of a situation which, I repeat, is not only conditioned by the international financial crisis, of course, these problems are deepened by this, but without solving it in Slovenia we will not be able to face the challenges posed by the general crisis. One of the governments of the past two years did nothing because she felt that the German locomotive would already pull everything out of the crisis, and that did not happen. Thus, there is one very responsible homework that awaits all of us. One solution has already been found, we could fix it, now it's collapsing, we don't know what it's going to replace, and we're getting ourselves into bigger and bigger problems without anyone being able to explain to people that it's being done because it wants to achieve this and this goal that will be good for everyone. There's no explanation yet. We're all waiting for her. I really hope that it will come as soon as possible and that people will also be able to identify their place in this society and also their own future – that is why we are here! If there are solutions, come with them as soon as possible and tell them how this will be resolved: wages, pensions, health care, education and everything that belongs to the state and thus the dignity of the citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Battelli. The Secretary of State also took part in the debate. Before that, I give you a chance, Mrs Hercegovac, for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u123	My procedural proposal is, honourable Members, that each Member is really only two seats in the National Assembly. Why? Because certain Members, who are five mandates, have themselves often had an untransparent impact on the decision to vote, why certain things have been bad or what they are, and have also indirectly affected the poor situation of the people in this country, as my colleague has said before me. That is why I think that every Member sitting here also bears his own responsibility for this situation as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u124	Okay, Mrs Hercegovac, your previous proposal was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and this is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but you have expressed your opinion. But I can see that there is still a desire for debate. The Secretary of State, however, gave up the debate. Mr. Bevk. Anyone else? There's more than one wish for a debate, so I'm opening up an opportunity to apply. Mr. Meh and Mr. Bevk. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u125	Somehow, ladies and gentlemen, I thought it would be wise to remain silent, not to speak and simply accept those supplements that were necessary today, so that they could work more quickly and more easily. But there's been a lot going on. Many of these thoughts have been expressed here and let me at least comment on some when we are talking about the amendment to Article 2 and we are trying to determine why and what this amendment says. My first question is, why hasn't she been married before? Why haven't you proposed this by now if we wanted transparent and all the other activities? So, this is what it's all about, but it's only right that business is transparent and that we get the data that we want, so that we don't talk about advisory contracts, so we don't talk about corruption, and we don't talk about fellows that you obviously know. I don't know any pals. But I am aware of corruption from what is reported by those responsible. Who are the protesters talking to, ladies and gentlemen? You, the opposition? We're being told here by politicians! Don't say "you" and "we." I very much agree with Mrs Hercegovac, here you have been sitting individuals for a very long time, working, you know everything and now you blame us who are here for the first term and we are trying to do with our heart what we felt we should do in this country. That is why I think it would be appropriate to accept this proposal. When we talked about the Slovenian State Holding, you may recall that there were a lot of comments on this Slovenian State Holding and that I signed my own proposal under the fact that the Slovenian State Holding would not have been the same when it was. I also realized at the time that we will have to do something about the Slovenian property we still have. However, not in this way, as has been defined, because they spoke in the middle — those who were responsible — about how much energy they would sell and sign some kind of agreement with the unions. Ladies and gentlemen, we talk too easily about this Slovenian property, on which our lives depend, those we have worked our entire lives in these state companies, or in the economy, or elsewhere. So it doesn't matter which company we sell, so it doesn't matter! And we need to talk about it. When we talked about classification, remember what was written in this classification. Remember what was written! Was that all right? It was agreed with the workers, it was defined, we had analysis, what's going to happen? I think it would be right to take this as a whole when the Slovenian government comes before the National Assembly and before the public with the actual state of our economy and finances. At that time, we will also have to actually talk about what we will do and how we will do it. How we will acquire the missing means and how we will satisfy all that you are talking about today; about the workers who cannot buy bread, and about the people who cannot buy it. Of course they can't buy it because of us, ladies and gentlemen, here! Talking about it, you know, any government would just keep changing something. Everything that's happened before sucks, everything we do is fine. I think it is right that we have not changed the essence of the SDH mission, that we are changing what is wrong and that we are trying to continue. But let me remind you that the AUKN was shut down only after he started giving without listening. And that's what we've heard here today in the National Assembly. Therefore, we should carefully place these words into space because people listen to them and truly believe that everything is as individuals speak. So we're selling the last or the last of the state's assets. Therefore, it shows that we are careful to do so while we are still able to do so on our own. I cannot agree with the fact that 70% of the assets are political property. In the society where I worked, let's say that politics has never been owned by this company, but politics has always touched itself in one way or another when we are talking about spatial policy, about politics, also different, social, economic or whatever – if that's what we mean and then let's say so. Have we asked ourselves what will happen to these companies? One year, we know what we should do. What will happen to companies? What about the workers? What about the programs? That's all the point we need to talk about today. Bad management. It is only partly held that management was poor in state-owned companies. He's only holding part of it. In some state-owned companies, governance has been excellent, and management has been excellent, because they are successful companies. The question is whether operators can, if owners can set the right targets for these companies and if owners can make use of the funds they have and set the targets they need to achieve. Let me remind you that, in this National Assembly, you passed a law that put the power plants of the lower Sava into space. Remember what we're doing with this whole thing, and it's okay. Therefore, the impact of policy on many of what is being done in our country is extremely important. We strongly opposed the law at the time of creation for reasons I had already said. Today, quite a few debaters have been talking about the fact that we have abolished the government. Ladies and gentlemen, you dropped it yourself because of – you know what. I'm not gonna talk because I don't think it's right for me to do that. And if we know that we will have to sell the property, then it would be right to talk today about selling it well; that we will have an effect on getting good owners. It would therefore be right to get both guidelines and classification and then also how we will do it. Otherwise, I think it would be really right for us to put our words on the air here carefully, not to be insulted, and to try to talk about what is on the agenda right now. Therefore, the amendment to Article 2 is an amendment that I understand what you want to achieve with it. Of course, at the same time, I know what that means. As a Member today, when I face the problems of my communication, work and functioning in Slovenia, even political and economic space, it is always behind what I have to report to the Commission to prevent corruption with whom I have met. If today we are going to be all the treaties that have been, whatever we've been doing, I think that's too much of this reporting. That's why I don't think I can support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Earlier, the leader of the largest opposition parliamentary group, Jože Tanko, had called on the President of the Government and the President of the National Assembly to clarify certain things. They're on duty, if they're not here, they'll have a chance to say so. We can do this today or once again, because we will not conclude the debate on the Slovenian State Holding this moment, but this debate will continue. I'd need some clarifications, too. For example, why are all the mines in the investment classification of the Slovenian State Holding Company in liquidation or closure? The explanation was that there was an administrative error. Few people can believe that. I'd like an explanation, but I have no one to ask. I would like to get an explanation from the former Prime Minister of the Government, I would like to explain the former Minister of Finance, I would like to explain the former Minister of Economic Affairs. First class in the world, second one looking for a job, third one went into the economy. You will be able to obtain explanations from the President of the Government, from the President of the National Assembly. Where am I gonna get an explanation? Nobody's in active politics anymore, they're all hiding somewhere, or they're teaching around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much. There is still a desire to discuss it, so I am opening up the possibility of applying again. Mr. Joseph Horvath and Mr. Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! Because we've been joined by a magician. Stanko Stepišnik, I welcome him and I am pleased to hear our debate, and I believe that as a long-standing successful economist, he has much to do with the state's assets in a transparent manner. So we're talking about the idea of making a supervisor for companies in part or 100 percent of state property. That's what this amendment is talking about. This amendment, Mr Meh, does not speak of an individual contract if you listen to me, but speaks of an annual net turnover that is the extract of a business entity from an invoiced realization. This business partner sends this to the Slovenian state holding company, which will fill the base to which an application will be viewed, similar to a supervisor. The supervisor was well received. If anyone objects, let us open the debate on this subject. Dear colleague mag. Leila Hercegovac, I am a Member of Parliament. I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not a judge, I'm not a cop, I'm an MP, like you, so we're colleagues, so I'm not gonna talk about individual contracts here, and I'm not gonna prove them to you. It's not that we're talking about names here, we can talk about it at some other institution; but, look, dear colleague, everyone who reads the daily newspaper or reads the online media will find a lot of information every day, and when we read it, we have a headache and we want to get rid of it. I'm sorry that my contribution has now come under my hand, I read, look, Diary, 20. 4. 2013 Four well-respected journalists came up with the topic and gave it the title of the Sožiški partner to guarantee Jankovic's company's debts. That's all. And then Channel A and so on. You know. Thanks to research journalism, we probably have at least a handful of less bad guys going on in this country. When we, my dear colleague, have this supervisor for the companies listed in the classification or to be listed in the classification, then I will be happy to provide you with an answer to your question; not about individual contracts, but about business partners operating with these companies. Why, just now, I was asked by a respected colleague – so I understood that he was asking me as a representative of the applicants. Yeah, it's true! Because I initially said, I don't know if you've listened to me, that we have made a lot of efforts in this amendment of the law, including with our New Slovenia expert committee, to make this business more transparent, more transparent, more transparent than the Slovenian word, and we have come up with this idea: we make a supervisor for companies in the SDH classification. Why is that? Indeed, at least this is how we understand that improving legislative solutions is probably the basic and permanent task of this assembly. They'll never be so good a solution that they couldn't be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. And Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. Here some who are the visas of me wonder why no one has explained this to them. On several occasions, the Secretary of State, when preparing the classification of investments and guidelines, offered a presentation to the Group of Social Democrats, but your current leader decided not to accept it because you are still a priority against the sale of state property, which I have already said before, and it is in the context of the places of the century and great treason. You can check with your Mr. Webber that what I'm saying is true. You're the only party in the National Assembly who didn't want to meet and familiarize herself with either the guidelines or the classification of investments. I can see that in the coalition, too, the government is aware that something before we go into the sale of state property should only have. That's how I understood Mr Meh when he said, "It would be good to get guidance and classification." That's what we had. Look, today we're going to vote on this exactly, and you're going to say no, and you're probably going to say no. By rejecting the rules, a project of free access to state property shall be launched when there is no further definition of what a strategic investment is, when there is no indication of where any other investment is and what the portfolio investment is. Now it will open from A to Z, all in one way or another, any one of those who will have a few minutes of time in the coalition will be able to lobby the matter, agree, connect it so that this matter can go up. Why don't you support it? Why don't you change your mind when we vote in an hour or maybe even sooner? And you get the basis, you get the guidelines, you get the classifications, you get the definition of investments, and then you run the appropriate procedures. It's an elegant path, that's what we have. If this concept is not good, there is still a chance to improve, but what is prepared is much better than nothing — what you will do. And this is nothing to bring this down, which has been prepared and coordinated – not entirely because this is not possible, because each member group or individual has a separate opinion on individual investments, strategic or portfolios or important. But the concept was made, it was well supported, it was coordinated, it was complete and changed, and if there was interest in the Group of Social Democrats, we would have introduced another idea of yours. Well, that was offered. It would also make sense, since it is still an opportunity, Mr Meh, that within an hour in the course of the vote you will also change your decision and give the legitimacy to your debate. I understand when you say that Mrs Bratušek and Mr Weber have become something, some representatives: one executive and supreme representative or the highest, the other in the legislative branch of power. I understand that, but both of you were always here, the whole time we were discussing a bad bank when we were discussing the Slovenian State Holding. All the time. Wherever possible, they were present and commented; today, when we need some answers, when we want some answers, because things have changed radically in their positions, there is neither one nor the other. The coalition may also be able to adjust the meeting of the National Assembly by considering this when both were present. It would probably not be a problem, but it has the power of a coalition to determine when a point will be dealt with in the National Assembly. I think it will have to be done to explain the diametric opposite of radical changes. Mr Han somehow inherited the seat of his predecessor, Mr Weber. He probably also received guidance on the debate on treason and on those who would steal state property. Well, it's a legacy, it's an inheritance that you have to somehow take over and explain. Now, Your Honor, if you need time to get those answers, we'll agree to that, too. No problem. The government probably needs it, too. We understand it needs some time. If necessary, we too will take something because, as Mr Meh said, it is the last part for the rest of the formerly large state property. The last step remained, and for this last step it would be good to get the last explanations of those who have become most responsible in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Regarding the classification of the investments of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which falls within the framework of this law, which we are discussing today, he requested clarification in the context of the parliamentary question, not in some informal talks with representatives of the Government in the parliamentary group. This formal reply in the context of the Member State question was that it took place in the context of the classification of the Idrija mine, which is on the World Heritage List, as part of the Slovenian State holding company's investment in this case, as an option to sell in the final order, for an administrative error. I think that such an answer is extremely offensive and underestimating to Members. Well, you'd say they made a mistake or knowingly did it, not that it was an administrative error. I would therefore be very happy if the former Prime Minister, who was elected as a Member at the end of 2011, sat in this Chamber and took over the leadership of his parliamentary group or sat at least as an opposition Member so that they could ask him a question. We cannot adjust the schedule of the National Assembly because the former Prime Minister cannot come to this Chamber and give us qualified answers to questions. I would ask him a lot of questions; from this planned sale of the Idrija mine and heritage, which is on the UNESCO World Heritage List, and from why, for example, you cut off the last day of your reign and stopped one of the biggest projects under the 4th Development Axis, this is the connection between Primorsko and Gorenjska – the last day! How could you think of such a thing? We would let the new government think about the positive and negative things of such decisions, and you, on the last day, make decisions in recent minutes that are difficult to make. And I would like to ask the former Prime Minister why they did it, but I have no chance because he gave up his post. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? More wishes, so I'm reopening my application. Mr. Gniedar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u135	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would say that we have been listening for a long time in this Chamber to the debate on state values, on state silver, on state property. But today I'm really asking myself, what is state property? Some of you are absolutely opposed to the sale of state property. You know what we've been doing for 20 years with government property - we've been buying it, we've bought it back with every recapitalisation. I don't know how many state firms we've bought with this, not once, maybe several times. That's what we say. We buy our property. And from those of you today who claim to be state silver, which is a shame to sell, I would really like financial arguments. As soon as possible, we must get rid of such state property, which we are buying and investing tax money over and over again. On the other hand, I understand very clearly and very precisely why you want to legislate or oppose an amendment that opens up transparency in the management of state property. I am very clear because the maneuvering space for something else to steal in Slovenia is extremely narrowing. And giving some maneuverable space to do that before that "our silver" kind of takes advantage. I believe that if there are 90 Members in this Chamber, we have different opinions. I cannot understand, however, that we are opposed to transparency, we are hurting the country, we are harming the transparency of the management of state property and that this is a range for what has been going on for the last 20 years. Dear colleagues, if you support this, then this is not a job for the good of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Once again, I am opening the way for a debate because I see that there are still a few wishes. Three reported. First Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I wasn't going to come forward, but, you know, at the end of the day, when a man listens to the current opposition, which was a short-term government party, he realizes that enlightenment is as fast as possible when you come out of position to the opposition. Everything we haven't told you in the beginning of SDH, today you repeat: you want transparency, you want honesty in sales and so on. We've been telling you all this, and we've been warning you about all this! That is why we objected when you came with this proposal. We told you to make the matter transparent. What are you gonna do with the money? Can you explain what you're going to do with that money when and if you're going to sell state property? You didn't know how to say it! You didn't say. And ours have a set. [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] Yes, Mr. Visac. [[...]] That's something to laugh about because it's good news. Otherwise, I would tell you to talk about what we should have done, what we haven't done, what's been going on for 20 years — that's some added value, something we should have done today. I too am for transparency – absolutely! So that we know that a set is made, what will happen, what will we sell, that we know what our national desire is to preserve, and what is what could be sold. You know, we can't sell something that a fellow Member said, "something that is no longer worth anything – like." Nobody's gonna buy that one. There's a problem. That if we drive this far and we tell the public that something is no longer worth it, and you keep saying what's not worth it, then we want to sell it. And you know we're gonna have chickens laughing at us! If we know in advance and say something's not worth it! That's a big mistake. And that's where we're different. We on this page say that everything in this country is worth something, but above all it is worth people, those, workers and workers who have created and who create. This is important. Please don't scare them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. For the last time, I'm calling to take advantage of this minute and a few seconds. It is also necessary to be rational and economic in time. I fully agree with the thinking of my colleague Ljub Žnidar. Very good, and for a short time, he told us the truth. I also understood that colleague Jožef Kavtičnik supports our amendment because we are talking about transparency. It is only our duty, my duty to a Member sitting at seat 90, to propose some solutions, technical in this case, which are better, which contribute to transparency. But look, dear colleagues, today you will reject the document, which says that "the key objective of selling individual investments is to enter a strategic partner into the company and thus improve the prospects for stable long-term development of the company, providing additional capital for the development of the company, new investment, opening new markets and jobs" and so on. That's the first priority. So it's not a sale. This is our key objective – it was, if not adopted; a key approach, a methodology, what, in fact, is the sale of an investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u141	Unlike Mr Horvath, I cannot agree in the good work of Mr Ljub Žnidar's debate. In fact, the fact that we have been buying in the order of the company, as it may have been, must be strongly opposed. Maybe three companies were like that and some. I can't say we've been buying energy, not Krka, not Gorenje, and there are other companies we haven't given anything to. That is why I think it must be said that we have recapitalised banks, that we have recapitalised what was necessary, but not generally speaking. That's why I think we need to clear this up and say it like it belongs in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Žnidar, and here's the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u143	Dear colleague Mr Srečko Meh, today we are discussing an amendment on transparency. There was a lot of talk in Slovenia about construction, how much of the money from the construction of the Slovenian highway cross was spilled elsewhere, but in construction and also in the construction of the highway cross were public invitations, some included foreign associations, foreign consortia, foreign construction companies but were too expensive. And I'm asking about transparency, how many energy bids have there been? How many bids were made in the area of construction of hydrocentrals in Slovenia? How many public tenders have there been for the construction of a thermal power plant in Scotland? We're talking about transparency! I also ask you to obtain financial information as to how much the State of Slovenia has invested in state companies and how much it has recovered from this. Then you will get a very clear agreement that from day to day we only buy our own companies, which is the result, but first, please obtain this financial information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Meh, the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you. I don't need to get the information you claim to have happened. You tell them, I say that we probably didn't invest anything in Krk, that we didn't invest anything in Gorenje, that we didn't invest in Coal Velenje, that we didn't invest in a bunch of other companies when we talked about the country, and we would buy them with it. That as Director of DRSC you had everything at your disposal and that you were doing this is your problem and that is your responsibility, not ours here. Don't throw everything we do in the same basket! Because people are going to say that we bought these companies for every society. We didn't buy them, Mr. Žnidar, and it wouldn't be right to buy them! That's not true! In fact, we were buying a bank, and we were buying someone, but not talking in general! This general talk brings us to the fact that we are all corrupt, all untransparent, and that we are all doing this. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I think there is no longer a desire to discuss Article 2, but we have another Article 5 open. I am putting this article and the amendment of the SDS Group to this article into discussion. Who wants to discuss Article 5 and the amendment? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are closing the debate on the amendments and we will decide on it in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, 10 minutes after the end of item 2a of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to 2A-point of the agenda – this is the defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for Resolution and Prestructuring of Economic Companies in Difficulties The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Representative of the Government, Secretary of State – won't you? I'm sorry. Mr Stepišnik, Minister, I apologize. Here you are, Minister, for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u147	The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in difficulty is adopted in order to ensure that companies are in difficulty provided with the most appropriate form of aid within the framework of authorised measures in the EU. State aid to firms in difficulty was granted in the form of short-term or long-term loans, subsidies, interest rate subsidies between 2008 and 2011, and the State guarantee instrument was also in place in 2011 in the absence of budgetary resources. By granting short-term loans in terms of rescue aid, companies are allowed to take urgent measures and remain alive at the time of the preparation of the restructuring programme. In granting aid to firms in difficulty, account shall be taken of: the social situation of workers and indicators on the economic and social situation in the region and the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises for the development of the economy. The long-term objective is to maintain the maximum number of companies, the number of employees and the increase in value added. It is appropriate, however, for companies in difficulty to have a survival perspective to provide assistance in other forms and not only with debt financing. The main solution is the introduction of additional forms of State aid by adding to existing forms such as credit, subsidies, interest rate subsidies and guarantees the possibility of rescuing and restructuring companies in difficulty with capital investment in cash and real form and the conversion of claims on loans and guarantees paid. The law removes the limitation of the maximum amount of State aid to individual companies in difficulty. The law removes the restriction on the granting of aid to companies in which the capital share of the Republic of Slovenia exceeds 25 %. This solution is crucial for improving the state aid award system, particularly in a situation where many companies are over-indebted and need State assistance in resolving them and it is not reasonable for certain companies to exclude them as potential recipients of state aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. The chairman of the committee would like to take the floor to present the report of the committee? Here you go, Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The Committee on the Economy is at its 28th emergency session. 4. 2013 dealt with the above-mentioned proposal for a law. The President's College is at its 50th session. 4. 2013 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Finance, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. In its opinion, the Service made specific comments to each article of the draft law, namely Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and DeSUS (Articles 3, 5, 6 and 9 of the bill). The Committee was also informed of the proposal for amendments to the Svea Lesna Industry Committee, d.d., to Article 2 of the proposal for a law to which it had not been defined. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained in an additional explanation that the amendments tabled take into account some of the comments made by the services in the written opinion, but that there are still two comments by the service, namely Article 1 and Article 4 which are not taken into account in the amendments tabled. In the discussion on individual articles, support was generally expressed for the bill, but the members and members of the committee drew attention to some of the dilemmas and expressed a number of concerns regarding the proposed solutions to the law. The discussion highlighted, inter alia, the explicit linkage between the financial consequences of the proposed law on Cimos, the negative consequences in cases where the resolution of companies in difficulty would prove to be unsuccessful and the issue of criteria and criteria for determining the companies to be granted State aid. The need to withdraw the country from individual undertakings was also expressed, and a question was raised regarding the time frame within which the European Commission decided to grant State aid to an individual company. The Minister for Economic Development and Technology further gave answers to the opinions and dilemmas expressed by the members and members of the Committee, stressing that the proposal for a law would allow for the resolution and survival of a large number of companies that have gone into difficulty but have a survival perspective. A representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also participated in the debate, which supports the bill. After the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, SD, DL and DeSUS to Articles 3, 5, 6 and 9 of the bill. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the representatives of individual parliamentary groups for their views? Here you go, Mr. Hršak. It's best if we open up an opportunity to sign up. Please sign in. Four representatives of the parliamentary groups for the views of the parliamentary groups have been reported. Here you go, Mr. Ivan Hršak, first.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This is a proposal for a new Law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty, extending the forms of State aid to these companies and abolishing the maximum amount of State aid. In accordance with the amendment of the law, the aid opportunities of the State will also extend to capital investment and the conversion of claims on loans and guarantees paid into equity shares. For example, Cimos. In accordance with the 2003 law in force, the State may, inter alia, assist undertakings with subsidies, loans, interest rate subsidies and guarantees. The proposed amendment to the law, which we are considering under the urgency procedure, also removes the restriction on the granting of aid to companies where the country has more than 25 % ownership. This solution is crucial for improving the system of granting state aid. In a situation where many companies are over-indebted and need help from the State in resolving them, it is not appropriate for the Government to exclude certain companies as potential recipients of state aid. The bill represents a means to achieve the government's goal of increasing the confidence of foreign and domestic public in the country. Thus, one of the government's priorities is the regulation of the public financial deficit and the other is the regulation of bad bank claims and simultaneously over-indebted companies. In Slovenia, companies owe 15% more than the average European company. Many have found it very difficult to repay debt from loans and have insufficient equity. The State has therefore decided to seek a system that will allow companies to strengthen their liquidity and increase their share of equity over a long period of time. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we agree with the novelist, so we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Hršak. I apologize to Mr Horvath, who should have a word earlier. Here you are, on behalf of the Group of Members, a presentation of the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Surely we all agree that the situation in the Slovenian economy continues to deteriorate further and that the proposed novel is some kind of response from the new government to this situation. The novelty thus foresees an expansion of the range of aid to firms in difficulty, including to capital investment and to the conversion of claims on loans and guarantees paid into capital investment. For the government notes that the existing forms of aid, namely loans and guarantees, no longer help over-indebted companies to get rid of over-indebted. The novelty removes the maximum allowed state aid limit of EUR 10 million so far, while at the same time it is not limited as potential recipients to companies where the state has more than 25 % ownership. In Novi Slovenija, help to companies in great difficulty does not in principle appear to be controversial, assuming that the criteria under which this aid is granted are also clearly formed. We believe that State aid makes sense to grant to companies that still have healthy cores and are perspectives. Mechanisms should also be put in place to ensure that the use of this state aid within enterprises is considered and will serve its purpose in a genuine and exclusive manner. The New Slovenia Group will not oppose the law. However, we expect that the novel will achieve its purpose, that will help Slovenian companies in difficulty to get out of debt and stand on their feet as soon as possible. In view of the State aid and therefore the granting of the tax money, it should also be noted that the proposed law, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, must take full responsibility in the event that any irregularities or manipulations occur in the granting or use of such aid. We also expect that in a reasonable time the Government will come before the National Assembly with a message that we will see what the effects are in the companies that have received state aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. The next is Mr Janez Ribič for the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In opening, let me say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we do not intend to oppose the amendment of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. Why? First of all, Mr Minister, because we understand that you want to do something small and that this is better than nothing. Yesterday you pointed out on the board that it is necessary to systematically arrange things, but at this point you are solving the "ad hoc" situation, which is otherwise absolutely true. However, it is also true that not so long ago you and your party have broken down the system's solution with every effort, if I now recall at least the referendum, the bad bank, as well as the Slovenian state holding company. Now that you're in power, you've turned the board around, and now we all need to understand your "ad hoc" changes of laws. If we really wanted to benefit this country and its citizens, we would strongly support the key system laws when you were already in opposition, and you would not need to open for long and wide the already prepared system laws for which you now, since you have been in coalition, have already found that they are actually good and that they are supported by Brussels and, above all, that you do not have better and more effective solutions. Nevertheless, you are still stalling, although in the meantime the price on the financial markets for the money we borrow is simply rising. Now for this quick solution of yours. It is true that Cimos is in a difficult situation, and it is true that every job is precious. We are particularly aware of this in the Slovenian People's Party, and that is why we will follow your proposal to amend the law. We have no problem with this because it is a coalition proposal if you are not already willing to adopt already prepared system laws, as it was more than obvious in the laws that the National Assembly has dealt with today, but are indeed prepared by the previous government, and this is obviously too much an obstacle for you. There is no obstacle for us in the Slovenian People's Party. Your proposed solution will allow for the introduction of additional forms of State aid, in particular the conversion of claims on loans and guarantees paid. The limit on the maximum amount of State aid to individual companies in difficulty is also lifted and the restriction on the granting of aid is lifted for those companies in which the capital share of the Republic of Slovenia exceeds 25 %. We will vote in favour of this proposal as an opposition party in the People's Party. We expect you to take a step forward in this direction also in the area of bankruptcy procedures, where similar solutions need to be introduced, the direct possibility of conversion of claims, i.e. capital shares. Such a change would specifically enable creditors to convert their claims into capital shares and take over the management of the company at risk of bankruptcy. In any case, as we say, you have our votes, the votes of the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party for this amendment of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. I hope that this gesture will also encourage you to put in place good system laws that have been on our seats for too long, regardless of the fact that your government has not put them into the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. Mr. Marko Pavlišič on behalf of the National Gazette, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary, the House of Respect! Slovenia has not set up a global financial crisis that has turned into an economic recession, but we have expected it in poor condition and with many, for various reasons, over-indebted companies. Along with the bank sector and the symptomatic resistance to change, we have a great recipe for inviting those infamous three-headed people. However, we are optimistic in the Civil Gazette. The Minister pointed out on the committee a few points which gave hope for the normalisation of the country. Slovenia has not set up a crisis and, you want to, we will get rid of it when economic growth returns to Germany, if of course we have able and viable exporters. Promoting domestic consumption here will not help, even if we finance it with new or higher taxes. By removing the legal aid ceiling and taking into account the resources available for this purpose, it is clear that a new source of funding will need to be found. There are no such funds in the budget, which can easily be compared to the greatest pits. However, the Minister mentioned that we will finance this by selling several companies currently owned by the State. In the Civil Gazette, we support and welcome this. This is absolutely necessary, even if the aid is transparent through public tendering. The Minister also mentioned that the aid would not go away without a change of ownership and explicitly mentioned the solutions provided by the bad bank. Finally! It is high time to use the tool that our former Minister Šuštersič has also prepared for you. Despite all the optimism that Slovenia urgently needs, a few doubts arise. All the cheering news was given by the minister on the committee, but he did not write it down in law or in explanation of the law. The amendment of the law can thus be viewed pessimistically as a change that will only prolong the agony of businesses in difficulty, which has happened too often in the past. So far, the state has largely not proved to be a good asset manager, let alone a sanator. The fact that some companies do not want to save the current owners, neither the creditors nor the suppliers nor the buyers can indicate the hopelessness of the case. If we accept the commitment to aid and encourage exporters, we must not forget our competitiveness. First of all, I would like to point out here that there is too much taxation. In order to assist exporters, the National Gazette will also support any reduction in labour taxation. However, if I sum up the Minister's promises, the rescue of exporters, the financing through state disinvestment and the use of the existing bad bank mechanism, they are the right course, worth supporting. Newton Freedman once said, "One big mistake is to judge policies and programs for their purposes and not according to their results." We sincerely hope that this time it will be different. The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette will unanimously support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Also Mrs. Aleksandra Osterman, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u159	Your Honor! According to the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, the substance of this law is to allow economic operators or undertakings with a potential for survival to have healthy cores to have a secure market, to provide financial restructuring by converting the claims made on loans and guarantees paid into corresponding equity shares. This means that creditors become new owners who are certainly motivated to solve or grow businesses or economic operators whose owners they have become. By adopting this law, which is only the first step towards solving the economic crisis, we will maintain healthy businesses or healthy cores of the economy and, above all, preserve existing jobs. This law will certainly be more successful in practice when the amendment of the Financial Business Act, insolvency and enforcement procedures is adopted. It should be noted that the law removes the restriction on the granting of aid to companies in which the capital share of the Republic of Slovenia exceeds 25 %. This solution is also crucial for improving the system of granting state aid, in particular in a situation where many companies are in over-indebted and need assistance from countries in resolving them. For all of this, the positive Slovenia will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Osterman. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on articles and amendments tabled or on one article and one amendment tabled. Article 3 is open. We have the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as the amendment tabled by the parties to the coalition, but they warn me that the amendment has been falsely tabled, that it is inadmissible, so the National Assembly will not discuss it and will not vote. We are therefore moving on to Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. In the light of the procedure, let me just warn you that I give the floor to Members and Members, and everyone has five minutes to discuss it if he wants. But I'd still open the door for an application, because I believe there's more than one wish. Three panellists, Matjaž Zanoškar, Alenka Pavlič and Samo Bevk were reported. Here you go, Mr. Zanoskar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When we listened to the presentation of individual parliamentary groups, it seemed that this was the law that was prepared, which was being prepared and so on. A colleague from a party who was somehow in charge of the economy spoke about this, but until the law was adopted, it is not something to expect of the effect. I would very much like to welcome the decision of the Government, the decision of the Ministry of the Economy, that this law, which is very crucial for the preservation of healthy kernels, to preserve a healthy economy in our country is very quickly put on the agenda and very quickly through the procedure of the National Assembly. It is not just about gaining the trust of foreign investors, it is only about this fundamental thing to maintain healthy cores. Look, if this law were passed when you were the Minister of Economy, there would probably be a lot of healthy economic cores, and unfortunately today there are fires where we see that many people are out of work, out of jobs and things have been saved the way no one wanted and we don't want them either. Let me say again that this system law, which introduces a lot of good things to save businesses, to save the economy with regard to the liquidity situation and also further to their development and their future, is of utmost importance, so, of course, as has been said, our party, and otherwise, the parties to the coalition support it and also my support is absolutely necessary to adopt and implement it as soon as possible in practice. I know confidently that this scepticism, when some people say what this law will bring and what will be the results – it will surely be a good result! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Zanoskar. Mrs. Alenka Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I'd just like to complement my colleague Zanoskar. Surely you will recall when we had a press conference in Positive Slovenia a good year ago, when we warned of Primorje. If this law had been in force at that time, the Primorje could also have saved several thousand jobs if I did not speak ten thousand. However, it is a fact and it is imperative to stress that this law is intended to save over-indebted companies and not owners, as some wish to interpret it wrongly. Certainly, the situation of these companies is due to credit crunches and the opening of new jobs is absolutely more expensive than rescues and businesses with basically healthy cores have a market and absolutely understanding suppliers. If I remind or recall, the company is being resolved in a way that the owner wants to save it first, and then banks, buyers, suppliers, if not successful, are trying to do so. However, it must be in the interest of the State to maintain its jobs, not only for the purpose of comforting or social moment, but also through the operation of a company full of state-owned cash registers through taxes and so on. On the working body, it was possible to listen to the evidence that this law was made on the subject or written to Cimos on the skin and that the government wanted to favor Cimos in this way. Of course it doesn't. Cimos is only the first one to get it, and this way it can be seen that it will not be the last, but it will be a clear demonstration that the government wants if it wants to be able to help businesses. It's not a gift, it's a job-saving loan. In the case of Cimos, we're talking about over 3,000 jobs, if you've forgotten. We must also think of subcontractors and all the others involved in this chain. But I would warn, honourable opposition Members and everyone else, just for comparison. Some thought 35 million absolutely too many jobs for 3 000 and more; in October, €36.5 million was aided to create 507 new jobs through the so-called promotion of foreign direct investment. Thus, I think that the amount of 35 million to solve more than 3 thousand jobs is absolutely appropriate, and therefore I think that the law is also necessary to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Of course, I will support the law or amendment of the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble. Indeed, with this law, which has been in force for several years now, we will be able to resolve a number of companies that have been in trouble, such as a colleague, the chairman of the committee, earlier said, because of the credit crunch and the failure of banks to help the Slovenian economy. At times, the amount of aid requested is equal to or even higher or the figures are similar when I looked at some projects from the requested amount of aid, which is then, say, the amount of compensation at the Employment and Social Assistance Institute. It is said that the aid that an undertaking may receive from this title is very productive, as jobs are kept, production continues at the same price as it would otherwise have been obtained for a short period of time as a compensation at the Employment Institute and within the framework of social assistance. For if an undertaking goes bankrupt, workers are entitled to such compensation and social assistance. Yes, another problem I see here. Speed of resolution of individual proposals, applications and applications for State aid for resolution of firms in difficulty. As far as I'm concerned, there are only two employees working at the Ministry in this area. I don't know how many of these applications are currently at the Ministry, but if we look at, say, one smaller role counts for more than 40, 50 pages of text with all tables, explanations. As annexes, there have been many balance sheets, at least for the last three years, and so on. All of this needs to be thoroughly studied. I think that only two employees at the Ministry can't be part of this, because if we look at it when they look at a role at the Ministry, then the commission gets this role, and then if it gets a green light, it goes to the government. Perhaps within a month the whole thing is being processed from the beginning, from the deposit to the decision itself in the government, and today for a number of companies, which are in financial squabbles, is a very long period. I would therefore appeal to the Minister, we have already discussed a specific role, and there is much to consider in this direction that this service at the Ministry will be strengthened so that we can follow these roles and not delay decisions. In view of all the companies that are in difficulty and are now turning to the Ministry, I think that there is too little in these crisis situations that it is only on the shoulders of two employees. Mr. Minister, strengthen this job if you have qualified men for this area! I believe that there are people in the ministries who are qualified to do this and that, to the maximum extent possible, these things will be resolved and that these assistance will be granted and that we will maintain jobs and economic societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. There's still a chance for discussion. I'm seeing one or more applicants, so I'm opening up an application. Here you go. Mr. Han, Mr. Breznik and Mr. Vizjak. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister! That I will not be too long, of course, I support this law, but I also support it if someone tells me that it is only a rescue of one company. During the nine years in the National Assembly, I have listened to how we will solve everything systematically and that any law or order or anything without connection is to be accepted because we will solve it systematically. Well, and this system has led us to kind of fall from day to day, and I don't think that's good. If this marriage is going to save only Cimos and 7,000 employees, then I think these 90 people that we're going to accept today have done their job. Now, about that amendment you told us we filed wrong. That is true, and some of us need to pour ashes here too. Yesterday on the committee, unfortunately, the amendment drafted by one company, which is also in difficulty, is Svea, and with that amendment that was adopted yesterday, could also save these 200 and 160 people, and unfortunately none of the members of the coalition, when he was on the table at the time, took this amendment and was closed. Today we opened another article with a business and procedural lock and tabled these amendments and say that this is impossible. In fact, it is only to open another case so that companies can be saved in such a way that the state can buy claims or properties owned by those companies. I am aware that if we do this, we have somehow failed the procedure and we will always be able to agree in a way that we can accept it. Therefore, I propose that this is possible once and only once an exception and an agreement, if the coalition and the opposition agree, and thus give only a minimal option to enable the company to dispose of these jobs. But if we don't, we're going to make a second choice, which could also be the convening of an extraordinary meeting, a new marriage, and we're going to save 160 people and come back to work again. I don't think that's a problem either, because if these 90 Members save one company because there's only one article or one word, that's the right thing to do. We support the social democrats of the law, but we would be pleased to agree that this amendment that has come — I will say that I agree — through the back door to this law, but we accept and therefore try to resolve this company, which is not necessary for the state to do so, but it has a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Beznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u169	Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have also prepared an amendment to Article 3 somehow yesterday. The amendment was drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, in particular it was doubtful that the amount of State aid under this Act to each company was not within the framework of the Community guidelines on State aid, namely the European Union, 2004/C244/2. We explained this and argued that the vague provision adopted at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on the Economy that the amount of State aid under this law to a particular company in difficulty is limited to the minimum necessary sum. At the same time, in our view, it is also contrary to the provisions of the Community guidelines on State aid for the resolution and restructuring of firms in difficulty – that is, those provisions that I referred to earlier. Therefore, the amendment lays down a clear provision regarding the level of aid to each company in difficulty. I'd like to say a few more things about yesterday's session. We did not oppose the work of these amendments, which the Minister spoke of. We agree that companies need to be helped, we believe that any job lost currently in the Republic of Slovenia is certainly cheaper than obtaining new jobs. But there are doubts. And we know this is a well-intentioned matter. If we look at the case of Cimosa. It is a society that is in real long-term difficulties, EUR 360 million in debt, debt to banks. It's a disaster! It is necessary to know that this company has not optimised costs in years and years; it is likely that this is the problem. Seven thousand jobs were discussed; 3,000 jobs are in Slovenia; 4 thousand jobs are indirectly at risk outside the Republic of Slovenia. Next argument, the minister said there was a risk to be taken. I believe so, but, look, we don't have any assurance or minimum that the company won't go bankrupt in a year. That's what you need to know. You need to pour yourself some clean wine. There's another thing. My personal opinion as a Member is that the next law, the so-called insolvency law, will be the one that is likely to save this company. I'm very black-eyed myself mainly because I know what's going on in the automotive industry, whose subcontractor is Cimos. The car industry is expecting a bigger recession. Through this recession, car companies will be able to cope with the pressure they put on further cost reductions. They're gonna put a lot of pressure on a subcontractor like Cimos. So, if it has already been seized by some product of Cimosa a minimum profit, this profit will, if this company really does not go into some broader restructuring, seriously recapitalisation of those coming out of the Republic of Slovenia, then we are done. Let's look at the ownership structure, the so-called claim conversion – Blue Insurance. With the pensioner's money, over 20%, we're saving Blue Insurance, gentlemen! It is important to ask whether someone with the money of pensioners can invest this money in speculative investments — that is, speculative investment. Unfortunately, the industry in the automotive industry is extremely risky at the moment. On the other hand, such money is usually invested in government bonds by normal insurance companies, not in speculative investments by certain companies. I wouldn't have hoped to invest money in some company as president of one of the boards or the boards of Blue Insurance. Of course, in these companies, if this works, there's a bigger profit, but it's not the job of some blue insurance company. It's doubtful, it's not some normal management, it's wrong without any doubt. Now I wonder what we're going to say in a year and a half where it went, say, this 35 million. Also yesterday, I did not get a clear answer as to how much money the Government had prepared for all the other companies. If Cimos gets them, say 35, but I do not oppose it – what about other companies that have more competitive products, more competitive services, and because of the poor situation of Slovenia, as well as the poor image of the "made in Slovenia" brand, have become into these problems? And I'm a little more concerned about those societies as a Member of Parliament. And there are these uncertainties, these extraordinary risks, right with Cimos in the first phase, in the first place. Cimos is an extraordinary risk. I believe and I hope that you will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you, too. The next panellist is Mr Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. State aid is a highly regulated activity in the European Union, and Slovenia has declared this law, which is now being amended or which is being considered as a state aid scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises. So many of you who talk about saving Cimos with this law are pouring false hope into Cimos, because Cimos has nothing to do with this law. The Cimos restructuring programme will have to be reported directly to the European Commission, and the European Commission will, if possible, grant this state aid as much as possible or not. For you must be aware, all State aid constitutes a distortion of competition in the internal market of the European Union and this is the worst thing anyone can propose to the European Union. One of the key values of the European Union is the single market and all State interference with the budget to economic operators, which means distorting this competition. So much for all those who have false hopes or hopes in this marriage, that this marriage will save Cimos. This law cannot save Cimos, only the approval of the European Commission can save him in accordance with the guidelines when we talk about large companies, because Cimos is a big system. That's the first thing. Second thing. Of course, we will have a lot and a lot of companies that we are going to solve, because they are in such a different situation and the idea of converting the country's claims into equity shares or guarantees, means that the state has lent these companies money or that these companies have claims to taxes, contributions, to cash registers, that is to say public treasury, then we will get instead of ownership, instead of the money we need to operate subsystems, ownership or something like that. In short, I do not understand this measure, and it is probably one step towards new support that I do not speak to nationalisation of companies. If you're judging that this is how you're going to save companies – "you've seen them alive!" I do not believe this, but I believe in the well-intention of this proposal and I will also support it, because I believe that any attempt, although its effectiveness can be questioned, must be made to move the train forward. I place much more hope in the reform programme to be seen or considered on Friday, but I doubt that we will be at peace, because I am reading it and I will not find any new action by this government so that we can see in it the solutions to the problems created and accumulated by this country. So, respectable, it is also necessary to have a busy set of money provided in the budget to solve these companies in difficulty, because there is a lot of trouble for these companies. Firstly, these companies will have to prepare a restructuring programme that will go through the Commission and through the approval of the Government, and here Member Bevk has warned that this procedure is ongoing and that it will take even longer to secure this money that is not there today. So if anyone thinks that by adopting this novel tomorrow, money will be available for these companies, he makes a strong mistake. If I understand correctly, the money for these purposes should be provided through the sale of state shares in certain other entities. So this is supposed to be some kind of fund, which is supposed to be for these companies as well. Then there's gotta be some kind of privatisation first. We know that I was responsible, at least within the government's competence, for the privatisation of Telekom years ago and the Slovenian steel industry, and I know that the procedures have dragged two, three years. This is taking so long, and today we have no different legislation than it was in force at the time. So, I want to tell you that the idea that this law will be able to give someone some help in one week or fourteen days, or one month from now, is to lay false hopes on these companies and therefore ask for a little more caution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you. The list of applicants for discussion at this stage shall be completed. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. Opening login option. The next person to receive the floor is Mrs Aleksandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you. Your Honor! As we have already mentioned, the aim of the proposed law is to maintain healthy cores of the economy, healthy businesses, whether small or large. At the same time, what is very important is that jobs are kept, but we must be aware that the next step is the bankruptcy process, which means that all employees lose their jobs by notifying the bankruptcy process. Let us consider whether this is appropriate in this current economic situation, and I do not think we can afford it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat, next debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! I would like to express my support for the amendment to Article 3 of the proposal for a law written by my colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And even from the discussion of the predecessors, it has already been pointed out that State aid to companies is actually under the watchful eye of the European Community and we cannot here, we simply cannot accept some of our own legislative solutions that would not have been agreed upon, I will say with the European Community's provisions or guidelines. Of course, I am for a better-spoken solution to companies, not for a rescue, or if you want a solution that has a final goal, that is a definitive solution. If there is no final solution, then this law really brings about a new nationalisation or company backing in this modern era. I would also like to draw attention to the extremely long procedure referred to by my colleague Samo Bevk, the procedure for granting this State aid. In fact, the state of the economy that the State wants to help or that has requested State aid must be carefully analysed, it must be seen whether there is a healthy core, whether there is a market or whether there are products; not least, whether there is a right internal energy, the right will that the company may also be able to resolve problems at the expense of any denials and then actually flourish definitively on the global market. As I have already announced in the position of the New Slovenia Group, we support this law, but, of course, we also express our trust in the Government and believe that it has good intentions. Of course, there may be a misappropriation of State aid, perhaps without a thorough analysis, perhaps with too short and unwarranted reasoning, and the government’s responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mr. Joseph Kavticnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, Mr Andre Visiak's debate is also in place, but look, we don't have time. Our country no longer has time to wait as long as our procedures require. There's no time. That means we need to start talking. I must say that I congratulate my colleague Stepišnik, who was a Member, and now, as Minister and what he said at the time as a Member, today as Minister of Labour. I congratulate him for this uprightness, for his attitude and for his desire to give hope to those who are creating good things today and to those who want to preserve jobs and perhaps to create a new job. Look, there are some differences between us: some are optimistic, some are pessimistic, but of course we are realistic. But it's still better to be optimistic than pessimistic. Because pessimism won't bring us anywhere. I'm telling you, this pessimism is too rooted. The former government was a little over-stinting and introducing this pessimism, and this pessimism stopped – you know what? At least, it's less people's motivation to work and so on. I'm sure the government isn't saving, they're gonna have to get rid of the companies themselves. The government by these measures and by this measure only gives the possibility that companies can start to resolve themselves, because otherwise there is bankruptcy, as the colleague has said. This is what you've been producing, and it's been produced all year, all year, when you ruled. You didn't save one company. I don't know if we're gonna be able to solve this, but if we save one company, we're 100% better than you were. This may have been the pain when you were saving Cimos for 18 months, but now, within three weeks, a result came or at least showed how you could get rid of it. Maybe it's a pain, but I hope it's not. I hope not. We're in the same boat together, remember, it's only right to row in the same direction. But if we row each other in our own direction, we're not going anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you. The next panellist is Mr Franz Pukšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u179	Yesterday I asked a question on the Committee of Ministers, and perhaps he overheared it or forgot to answer: What would he do if the European Commission did not grant State aid to Cimos? Before that, an amendment was tabled for the sitting. Colleagues and colleagues, we are now making a joint amendment to Maribor Foundry. Let's move on. Colleagues and colleagues, we table an amendment for 158 companies in such or worse situations, and they have an export market, I can list some of them, and ownership is known, from Styria, who are in such a cramp because of three things: financial non-discipline, because of the fact that the tycoons, who are still out there today, have stolen and have not paid the entrepreneurs – many of these entrepreneurs are also said to have happened in the Congestions, but they are not paid because we do not have a banking system that works. And a colleague in front of me said that the previous government was sowing pessimism. If nothing else, she's drawn up two system laws that she's coordinated with you. You dismantled it today, and you also dismantled the Bad Bank Act. What would happen? With these two laws, we wouldn't have solved it in a partial way, just like now, and I'm afraid, even though we told you we'd back this up. Look, we're not going to do the kind of stupid things you did when you sow pessimism at the time of the opposition, now that you're in the coalition, and now you're talking about optimism, but what we said or did in the coalition, even then in the opposition to support all the good proposals. You know, if these things were to turn out the way they were supposed to, and if they hadn't been dealing with themselves for the past three months and how to get into power — and that was the only goal — then today some things would have gone very differently. How will the evaluation of this money, which will be invested by the State through State aid, be carried out by some of the same large men and experts as they did when they made the loans? Will these millions of state aid go, or will it also run away like the billions in the previous mandate of the Pahor government? Many of you who are here have also been in the coalition when the country is now in catastrophic debt, and instead of maintaining jobs, money has gone to pay off Taliban loans. Today there are some lawsuits and inspections and so on for at least some who actually had workers in jobs have benefited from State aid at the time. We will not oppose you in this, but realize that you cannot now, when you are in the coalition, when you are in charge, behave so that what the previous government has prepared is bad, that everything is worthless and that the world begins with you. However, I fear that this government coalition is starting to stop the world, especially in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u180	I give the floor to Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I'll support the bill myself. Since I have been a member of the National Assembly since 2008, I have been alerting myself to the problems of the economy or the economic crisis. It is true that, at that time, I myself mentioned the issue of the area of the White Country, or mainly the textile industry, which concerned not only the White Land, but the wider territory of the Republic of Slovenia. At the time we spoke, some may have wondered that there was no crisis, but the results showed that there was still a finding or observation. Above all, there was a problem in the textile industry, probably also by the Republic of Slovenia, in such a way that we were probably too open to all foreign markets and, on the other hand, we were underprotective to our own very quality Slovenian textile industry, recognised brands of companies that have virtually drowned today. What happened? For example, in the White landscape there are no more businesses, almost no more, only a few hundred people are working, from the previous 5,000 in Beta, Comet, sometimes these were concepts of Slovenian industry, and so on after Slovenia, in each area they would find any of the important companies. Today we are talking about putting together what to get rid of. I am pleased with the words of my colleagues, including the opposition, who said they would support this law. Even though I could not be present at both meetings, I was at the Committee on Finance, the Committee on the Economy debate was in the direction of a broad consensus. At this point, I think that the only way to do it is to take the right path. And hope. They say so — it was said — a false hope — that hope would die at the last. Let us approach together to see if anything else can be preserved. Gradually, I remember what it means to restructure businesses, what a reprogram of companies means, even in relation to the overindebtedness of businesses, to keep a healthy core in the company. It's not that simple, it's not that temporary. It really takes time, but if we don't get together and go into this, even these opportunities to save businesses, we won't experience it. Every job we maintain is not only important for employees; every company, not just for employees and their families, is important for all related business partners, that is, subcontractors, as was said in the case of Cimosa 7 000 people, if we talk about Svea Zagorje probably again so many and so many people and so many people who are employed in these tradesmen and businesses. But there's something else that matters. In every city, if Primorje is Ajdovščina, if the company went there in a flood, and there are people and the company then this area, this municipality, I remember the words of the Mayor of Ajdovščina, meant a great deal. The development components of the municipality, taxes, aid to the development of the area, a well-standing company or a company that has employees can help to some extent. If you're not there, the city is dying. This is experienced in a wide range of areas in Slovenia. It is therefore right to consider this moment as well. Because if a large company does not live, this municipality, where the company is established, will not live anywhere in Slovenia, in all regions some subcontractors will lose their jobs, companies will be saved again, they will be on the verge of survival and people will be out of work again. At some point in time, even with this law, which we will support, I would like to see some other common consensus, and perhaps to supplement the law and find solutions to save as many companies in the Republic of Slovenia as possible and thus give us real hope, not only of hope, but also of the facts that will mean that people have a job, businesses have a job, and the Republic of Slovenia is going to face economic growth, as Mr Minister says.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you. All of you who have been reported to the debate have been given the floor. Anybody else want to discuss this? More. I'm opening the possibility of applying for a debate. I give my word to Mr. Brank Fick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u183	Have a nice hello to you all. I must admit that Mr Pukšič encouraged me to discuss this. When it comes to the rescue and restructuring of companies in countries, the current Minister of Economy is still a Member, always when the economic issues were being discussed, too, probably some of you didn't want to understand him at the time, or you still don't understand him. Whenever he asked questions to your very successful economic minister, who was also praised by the President of the Government, he promised him packages on his questions. There have always been new packages, companies have, of course, remained in trouble. In fact, this legal basis provides an opportunity to rescue companies in difficulty. Nobody talks about a bunch of money, about aid and so on, but only about the legal basis for that goal, so that at the end of the day we can increase this revenue side. It is essentially about preserving jobs, which is increasingly cheaper than creating new ones. It is, of course, a matter of maintaining concluded transactions, notably export transactions, provided that sales and plasma are provided and that vital functions are maintained. We know why these problems have arisen: debt, lack of turnover, sub-capitalisation and so on. In the case of bankruptcy, costs and consequences for the whole country, we come up with a black scenario. However, the multiplicity effect is certainly on the revenue side of the state budget, which in our view was neglected in the previous government when companies were left out of insolvency and consequently bankruptcy, irrespective of healthy cores. This, of course, does not mean that this law saves everything, as it will also have to resolve the bad claims of banks, also linked to the takeover law and the insolvency law. Thus, only this assembly or all of these legislation can lead us to the goal of maintaining jobs and relaunching the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you, too. Reploco would like Mr. Franz Puksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u185	Since I was already appointed, it would be unfair for me not to respond. Look, I'm not gonna do it alone, like you do, defending something and talking about something that was 100 percent the best. It wasn't. We worked, we worked honestly, we worked transparently, and we made mistakes. That's what we admit. Far from it, no one is almighty. God, they say it's not for everyone. What's the matter with me, common people! But you're doing something else now. We have jointly drawn up the system legislation in which you have been involved. And if we went this way forward, holding and with a bad bank, we wouldn't have to solve this now with ad hoc solutions. See, if a bad bank were to operate, 25 million euros of losses from last year, if the data were correct, by reading from Finance, 360 million euros of the whole of Cimos' debt would be transferred to a bad bank, they would release the bank's credit crunch, and ownership would change. And one more thing. The law stated that 10% of this property must be sold within one year, that is to say, assets would be sold and they would become new owners. And what would be the problem? Yeah, a lot of tycoons would lose that property. Why? Also because credit cards with names and surnames would be transferred and you'd know who, what, and how. With this, you are now putting things back into the cabinet of the President of the Government in a clear way. And there the international headquarters of artists or scientists will be saved by Slovenian companies. Please! That's wrong. This is wrong with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you. The next panellist is Mr Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. Whenever it comes to the hardship, the concrete hardship of all employees, of course, is the problem of how to deal with things. But any measure, even this concrete one before us today, must be seen in the light of the entire economic environment, only then can you predict how the matter will actually work. And from this point of view, one big question is asked, ladies and gentlemen. And before making your decision today, let everyone weigh it. On the one hand, you are predicting assistance to one particular company that is in great difficulty, and it is unusual that those directly linked to it are not particularly interested in solving it. On the other hand, this should be seen in the full picture where you predict that you will raise taxes and that you will be heavily burdened by everyone else. If you really want to achieve these effects that you have talked about, additional jobs, more jobs for all, then you need to support small and medium-sized enterprises, those that have good products and are currently fighting in the market, which are well-combined in the market, which are flexible, which are the engine of every successful economy. Now the matter will work, according to the tax rises forecast, to greater burdens for all good, for all those who are capable of fighting, about as if they had one team in the sprint, one would have elephant legs and that one would have bought new sneakers. And to everyone else, they'd put concrete bars on their feet and they'd say, "Here we go, everybody, so there's a steady load, a sprint." In the end, no one will win. It is necessary to create an environment that rewards successful ones, to help successful ones to expose such an environment in order to relieve all those who want to open jobs that want to invest further, who have good products that are able to fight on the world market. By means of one and the same rules, it will not go far, especially not if you put pressure on everyone else to do so. In this case, it's a recipe for a flood of all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u188	Thank you. The next debater is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u189	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! There is no doubt that the Slovenian Democratic Party does not oppose this law. Of course, we would like to emphasise, and I think we have this right to warn you about certain things. What is European aid is some kind of legislation, which means that the Ministry of the Economy will have to do its job without then having to pay back the money, as in the case of Adrie Airways and in the case of Elan, that means that we have to take care of it first. On the other hand, I am of the opinion that no money that the state invests in the company will save businesses if the company does not get rid of itself. This means that if the company does not have a market, if the company does not have a product, if the company does not have a productivity, if the company does not have a real value added to the products, no aid will be helpful and it would be more reasonable to invest these assets elsewhere. I would like to point out a good example, in 2011, the Pahor's government gave a national incentive to Mura's new owner of EUR 5.8 million, and today we read again in the media that a statement was announced in this company because workers and workers did not receive salaries. This means that encouraging the state, aid is not yet a guarantee that the company will survive. The company must only survive – with the product, with the new market, with all this. Be careful where you invest. It's not just about saving jobs. Jobs can be saved for a period of six months, three months, then agony is repeated, and in fact this is a greater harm to all taxpayers if these funds are not used in a prudent manner. And once again, I would warn you, we don't object, but we would like to draw attention to certain cases that appear in here. However, there is also a need to take a look, and Cimos is mentioned many times. Cimos also has some owners who are owned directly by the state, Blue Insurance Company, DSU has private owners. Our government has already adopted a decision on the provision of these funds. However, it is necessary to ask owners why owners do not rescue their businesses. And on the other hand, if one company gets rid of it, tomorrow you'll have 100, 200 companies at the door waiting for that money. If you gave one, why didn't you give one to the other? We read here that Svea from Zagorje has already turned to the state to make sure that the state buys out their properties. We are aware of this situation, but an environment in which businesses will be able to survive is needed. And give greater emphasis to small and medium-sized enterprises, which should be the backbone of the development of the Slovenian economy. Not always save giants. The Slovenian story, however, has always been that the giants were being saved, social policy was being resolved, and in the end it was seized for all negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mrs. Romani Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to discuss this subject. I agree that Slovenian entrepreneurship or that Slovenian companies are in great trouble. At the end of February, 3,000 529 blockades were registered. So many companies can't have their own resources in their own account. Our companies are in charge of more than the average of the European Union, even leading in this. Their debt is more than 40% higher than their total capital. And this bad picture and the bad image are growing. We have 47 grand and a few people today who receive minimum wage. The situation is definitely very bad. And the country must also tackle the rescue of these bad companies. There are many of them, and it is not just Cimos, which is directly referred to in this law, which we will, of course, support in principle, because the purpose is good. But aside from the fact that the purpose is good, we have a number of questions here. What happens when the next applicant comes who will not be Cimos, but another company who also needs help? On what criteria and criteria will you assess who is entitled to this State aid? By granting state aid in the past, we have a lot of experience in Slovenia. Is it true that all those State aids that have already been granted have been transformed into new jobs or jobs? Where did it ensure that this assistance to Cimos would also reflect that these jobs would be maintained and that there would be another new one? There's no guarantee. But I'll tell you what the scenario is, I'm sure. The country will become an even bigger owner of the company than it is now directly through funds and other institutions. This is exactly the opposite of what we are planning, what we are talking about and what all the European and global public expects of us. We do not invest, we invest and increase the role of the state. The country has more and more shares. This is contradicted by all the logic we are now talking about and the way out of the crisis. I would like to draw attention to another matter that has started to appear here in the media and in the public: these are some lists that are circulated to some, certainly not to Members, not to us at all, even the minister had little to say about this list, he was unknown to him, but some already know very much. It was made by Banka Slovenije or the Association of Banks and was intended to accommodate some 140, 150 companies that would be worth saving by the state. The other 150, who were also potential candidates and were lucky even to have come to the choice where they were examined, remained outside the list. But where are all the others, the 5,000, the 10,000 who didn't have the chance to run to even deal with them? And that's what we're worried about with this law and all the other intentions of the country to help the economy. We are concerned that it will help in a non-transparent way, that it will save owners and not jobs, and that, in the end, we will do particularly, very, very much harm to all, taxpayers, who will end up paying for it. As it is said, the purpose of the law is good, so we will not oppose this law, but we are skeptical of its effectiveness, including with regard to the granting of State aid by the European Commission, there are still many open questions. If this law works in practice, then it should work for all alike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you. We've exhausted this round of debaters, too. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I guess not. Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u193	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! I am very pleased that you have expressed so many incentives, opinions and that you are all aware that the actual economy is not in the best condition today. We've done what we've done in the last 20 years. It was necessary to own, the ownership was primarily with equity. Today we find that these companies, I speak for those good companies, but perhaps I would say first that we separate three types of companies. One is those companies that have spent a lot of credit to buy such activities outside their "core business". They've got big problems today. These are the so-called tycoons who have aligned with politics in the past. Then we have companies that have not invested in development, in new investments, have not been employed and are mainly on the domestic market. As this market shrinks home, they are now in serious trouble. These are the companies that actually need state aid if it is determined by an analysis that the cost, if these people go to the employment agency, is, say, smaller if we invest some money in this company or if we maintain the healthy cores of these companies. But then we have a third form of business, and these are the companies that have been owned, like the property in our socialism system, when the transition to capitalism, with equity capital, grew very quickly and today they have become agents of development and competitiveness mainly in exports. Because they grew very fast, they didn't grow with equity, they grew with debt capital, they grew with credit. And this equity in the company has become very small, as you can see, on average much smaller than in some average company in other countries. As this debt capital has now become so much, at the time of the recession and the high price cuts and the increase in domestic costs, these companies are in great difficulty because they are barely paying annuity and interest on loans, but they do not have enough money to invest in expanding their processes and employ new people. This solution is particularly for these companies, not for those companies that are so poor that they need to be helped because the country has only €70,000 a year to solve such problematic businesses. It is clear that companies must first save owners. If owners can't save the company, then banks, especially those banks that have so much credit in the company, are saving it, in the interests of the company that the bank now has a headache and the owners not so much. The problem is that suppliers have to help as well. Look, you're talking about Cimos because this marriage isn't made for Cimos. This law is made for all companies, Cimos is just an example. Cimos has 110 million Euros of purchases in Slovenia, 30 million Euros of realisation per month – do you know how much taxes and contributions to state treasury? It is true that 7 000 employees and only 3 000 employees in Slovenia. But Cimos. Earlier, it had been said that if we were to save the company, the company had to make a business recovery, a financial recovery for at least five years, so that the banks believed in it. And Cimos did it, and he sells all the other activities he has in Yugoslavia, and the one he wants to do the tractors stands, and the other investments he has elsewhere. In the end, Cimos will only become a core activity. And I think it's best that we help Cimos. Only in the last row is the country when it helps these companies, but it helps when it comes to maintaining jobs, because the cost would be too high to allow 3,000 jobs to enter the employment facility, because the country would probably retire within six months or one year. Let us be aware that five years ago the country had 580,000 people in the real sector, today it has only 420,000. And with those 450 thousand pensioners, we've come to over 600,000 pensioners. And this situation is unsustainable. Social transfers from our budget are extremely large. The real economy can no longer support this, so the fact that we are only saving and, on the other hand, we are not creating conditions for economic growth is not sustainable. Thus, we must maintain balance, savings and, on the other hand, economic growth. The country is the last in line to help such companies — with guarantees, not with money. This can also help to pass through the European Commission, as previously said. We've got a holding company, we've got [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u194	Mr. Minister, we are out of time, so thank you for your discussion. I find that there is still a desire to discuss, so I am allowing you to re-apply. Mr. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Well, we certainly need to take a full look at the role of the state in our economy. If we look at the role of the country in our economy in the last 20 or 25 years, compared to the very large majority of other global and European economies, we can say that this role is extremely large. I was at a meeting on Slovenia in Paris at the OECD, where, in terms of state ownership, they compared Slovenia with countries such as China or North Korea, which means that when we give guarantees today, we actually increase the impact of the country and indirectly affect the financial situation of the country. If these guarantees are ever cashed out to cash these guarantees due to the poor operation of any company, our situation, our ratings, our vision, our strategy will be completely changed in international markets. You have to be aware of that, Mr. Secretary. And without the other components helping to make the country competitive, to have a programme to have a strategy, it will not come out of the crisis. You mentioned now that Cimos has a program to get him to be rehabilitated. There's been a change of leadership. Fourteen days ago, I read that they don't even know what the productive parts of this company are. Sorry, I read in the paper that the new leadership doesn't know what productivity is, what efficiency is, what is the actual success of individual programmes in Cimos. The new directors said so, the new management said so. I hope they actually did it in fourteen days. Here we have already had a law where existing owners, whether state or parastatal, should act and not act. Among them is Blue Insurance. When they actually had written in the law, what time did they have to resolve these equity shares and not and demanded even an extension of the law, which in other words means that we probably also have irresponsible owners – and are we not now saving the owners? Are we not now saving the Blue Insurance and other parastatal institutions associated with the pension institution? Because we know they're connected. Isn't that how we save Slovenian pensions? Are we actually saving these people in Cimos? Cimos also has businesses in other countries, in Serbia, for example, Croatia, and how much of this money will go to other companies if we talk about it. But that's all we're dealing with? Here it is intertwined and even if we look back, there have been many transactions through these companies. I hope that if this is resolved, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will look closely and professionally at the government of Alenka Bratušek. On the other hand, such a solution, as has already been highlighted, is not transparent. Untransparent because the criteria are distorted. And a third. After all, we are talking about state holding, we are talking about the need to privatise state property, and here we are going into a reverse process. We're saying something, we're actually doing something else. I am not saying that there may be a need for a State guarantee or a guarantee for individual companies here, but I think that such a way of saving is untransparent in general, increasing the impact of a state-owned Derived concept that is unacceptable to Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you. I find that there is still an interest in the debate and I invite you to report. And Mr. Secretary has also signed up for the floor. I'll give you my word first. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Šircelj, I trust you, you are an expert and I very much appreciate you and you should also trust the management of companies. We can't generally say that management doesn't know because the paper says something. We both know what a newspaper is and the paper doesn't make sense in such professional, important, responsible things for the country to resist. The state doesn't run a magazine. The country is not run by someone else, but by people, and these people need to be trusted. I agree with you when you say bail can be a problem. But the biggest risk is if the company goes bankrupt. It's a lot less risk if we try to help and save the company in some way, you'll probably agree with me, solve the liquidity situation. In the long run, on the basis of financial and business recovery, and that the company has a competitive capacity, human capital, development research potential, products or services at a sufficiently high level, so that it can compete on the global market to have customers, then it is much better for such an undertaking to help and manage it in a capital sense. The state will only help, recapitalise banks, suppliers and owners themselves. It will only encourage the state, and with some help it will help to do so. And the company that has a capital structure today, let's arrange it for us to have a good capital structure, so that we have a lot of equity and little debt capital, such an enterprise is a good company. Such a company is creditable, it will be able to borrow loans from domestic or foreign banks, expand, develop its product. And if the state, the agency, or where you're the non-executive director, could sell it a lot better than we'd sell it today. But it has to be sold in time. We didn't make up anything new. You had a foundation. We're just taking advantage of the foundation you've made, and we're upgrading it. The opportunity is the same for everyone, but one sees it, the other sees it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u198	Thank you. Since the previous attempt to apply for the debate has failed, I invite you once again to apply for the debate. I give my word to Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u199	It's so interesting when we talk about what the media is saying. When it suits us, we believe when it doesn't suit us, but we don't believe it. When they write, say, weapons, we don't believe. When we write about our client's senior officials, we don't believe it. But when we write about something else, we believe. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had time on the Committee on the Economy to raise a question and clarify the issues we are talking about today. And we didn't set them up, and we didn't clear them up. We had 18 months to solve Cimosa's problem, but we didn't do anything. And today we are discussing what someone should do and not believe what should happen. To do something means to give ourselves an opportunity with this law, and this was also in the existing law, so that by amending this law we can reach out and do something in a society that is perspective and whatever. What did we do with Primor? Do we need a builder? Nothing. He went bankrupt. What have we done with the Rads? Nothing. He went to bankruptcy. The workers went to the stock exchange. This is actually the question where we should be honest not only with people, but also with the programs, and believe some program that managers have made. And if we don't believe it, we had an economic committee where we could discuss it. I therefore propose that today we adopt amendments to the law, which will allow for operational intervention where assistance is needed. There will be a lot of problems with privatisations and everything that will happen, what will happen in the meantime, but trying to help someone with a perspective program, of course. I think it would be right if we could say slowly that we will not ask those questions that we cannot really answer here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you. The following is reported to Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u201	Mr. President, thank you very much. I am re-applying to the word because I still believe that such contradictions cannot occur in some debate if we live in a democratic country that has envisioned a market economy and some free competition. Look, I hope and I believe that even with this amendment that we tabled today, which I have tried to explain to you today, that we are all aware together, that when the state intervenes to help some companies that have gone into difficulty to interfere with this principle of free competition in the European Union, which is an extremely respected principle and where the essence gives priority to some companies in some countries. The fact that we're in trouble is on some of my theories that I developed because it's in countries that came through some transition and had five monopolies. In the former Yugoslavia, we had five monopolies, which are major, why we are uncompetitive. The first monopoly was the monopoly of one political party. We tried to end this with the first free elections. The second monopoly we had is the so-called school-cultural monopoly. The third monopoly is a media monopoly, the fourth monopoly is an economic monopoly, the largest possible role of the state in state-owned enterprises, and the last monopoly or one of the last principles is in the so-called monopoly of the judiciary, where a whole range of lawyers who have been educated in the previous institution are developing their legal knowledge in a totally incorrect legal philosophy. That was those five monopolies. In fact, one monopoly was abolished and all four monopolies were still in existence in the Republic of Slovenia and therefore the Republic of Slovenia does not act as a market economy. Today, in this debate, we have heard that, in fact, we are currently renationalising these companies. It is important to ask why foreign investors do not choose to enter Cimos. Why, for example, if Cimos works for Volkswagen, BMW, Porsche and so on, why do they have no interest in entering the ownership structure of Cimos? It's free movement, it's free competition, they sense it's a promising company and they enter. For what, I'm asking you. Next thing. Why does that reflect? Now that I'm only looking at the movement of our bonds, we've had a previous government that you have very bad concerns about now that we haven't done anything on the income side. We were talking today about the break of the Primorje. You had a government for three years, Mr. Meh, why didn't you save Primorje in three years? When in the last agony of the Primorje literally before a total break, you now tell us that we did not save the Primorje in those few months. These are the concerns, the lack of understanding of the market economy, of a strategy, what a country should look like as a market economy. We must remove these monopolies. And look, our government is about the revenue side, when you speak, that's the difference between two policies, one with this socialist thinking, the other with some young parties, with this normal thinking of the market economy. We said we had to disinvest. This means selling off part of the state's assets and investing it in the income side, freeing up investments, whatever, that we think is absolutely necessary at this point. This is an essential difference that citizens and citizens will understand this total opposite concept of the market economy. One side is the so-called delegated state capitalism, where politics has a strong influence through state monopoly companies, and the other is one that understands the market economy and understands that we have to slowly eliminate these monopolies. And the problem is there's always chaos after the election. When the left comes to power, it is a shock to the financial markets that Slovenia will once again stand on this path of transition and move any further back. And the previous government, the three-year-old Pahor's government had just this blind spot, that halfway through the transition, the whole thing stopped and you told people, look at this market economy, let's go slowly back to socialism. And that was reflected on all sides. In iconography, in celebrations, in Parliament. And that's something that's incomprehensible that someone can see when they enter Slovenia. And as foreign countries, foreign markets, foreign investors see us, it is precisely in the case of Cimos. Why didn't they invest, why didn't they recapitalize it, and why didn't they enter Cimos? Of course, I am predicting help for your marriage and well-intentionedness, but I want to clarify what this market economy is and what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you. The next one is reported to the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thanks again for saying that. What's a little bit unusual is almost a cheering atmosphere. This euphoria that is now present in the ruling coalition – we are saving something. You know, there's been a lot of euphoria in this House. I remember, for example, how it was talked about the massive amount of aid for the Maribor TAM. Now we're saving families, saving Maribor, saving specific people. Is that what really happened?Oh, my God! Finally, certain intermediaries were rescued, financial institutions and workers ended up on the road and their families were as threatened as they would have been without that assistance. It is unfortunate, however, that other jobs have therefore been put at risk as additional burdens have arisen, additional tax burdens for all others. That's why this road is so questionable. You cannot be in the same sleep today because we read newspapers, watch predictions, predict additional tax increases for everyone else, additional burdens for the most successful and predict the solution of exactly one particular case. I'll say it again, it's like we've got a Spartan team. To those with ivory legs, you put beautiful new sneakers on your feet and to everyone else extra weight, concrete bars. And you're saying that now we're all going to win the sprint. No, no one on this team is gonna win this way anymore. In the end, other teams of other countries will win. That's why this thing is so problematic, and that's why it's not the right way. The right way would be to relieve the most successful and to enable, to give the legal, systemic framework that will encourage those who are the most successful, to invest more and to enable them to do so and thereby promote the opening up of quality, good jobs and thus gain, if you want, the other way around for the country the possibility of collecting more taxes, not by increasing them, but by increasing the mass, because it will be more successful because more people will be employed because more people will have jobs. And that's what gives in the end the well-being for everyone. As a result, this decision needs to be carefully considered. I will certainly not give in to this euphoria, which is here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u204	Thank you. I find that there is still an interest in the debate and I invite you to report. Mr. Lucky Meh has a word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u205	I don't think it's euphoria. I don't believe this is about cheerleading. It is a matter of reality, a law that this National Assembly has the right to accept. That's what we do. And what else should we do than try to enable instruments that will allow us to intervene or solve problems where there will be problems. Look, yesterday at the Chamber of Commerce, someone who's responsible said that we have effective directors to increase exports. This is an assessment of the Chamber of Commerce, which means, of course, and we all know that exports have increased. This, of course, means we probably don't want to help these companies. But we want to help, or we need to help, those who need help. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about ours and your marriage. Neither ours nor your marriage. is just an existing government, a valid law and people implementing it, and for me, the previous government was the best. And this is the best one, and the next one will be the best, because we don't have any others in this time period. Some say that it is with the help of the economy that we go back to socialism. Ask the people who have experienced it. The ones we talked about today that they can't buy bread what they want. Security, for sure, work, not what's going on here. When I was talking about Primor, I was talking about that we were in this National Assembly, and here I was, I suggested that we do something in Primorje, and the answer was, "We will not invest in private property." That's about it. That's not what this is about! We should maintain the programmes and ensure that good companies can work, that is the essence of everything we are trying to do here. But there are problems and terrible problems that will, of course, arise to us. That's why I'm talking about nationalisation. What other key do we have, such as helping someone, such as entering the ownership structure and then selling or giving a guarantee and helping a company that has problems with what Mr Minister has been talking about? That is why this problem of our understanding that this is not about your government, this moment is about the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has proposed amendments to the law, with which we could have an instrument to help where I think we should help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you, too. The following gets the word, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I would say, personally, I am very much in favour of assistance to economic operators, but to prospective economic operators. It is said to those who will return the State's stake tomorrow or save our jobs and in another form return this deposit back to us. If I focus here on Cimos, which is today a sort of central point or a central economic society, this belief just doesn't satisfy me. Cimos has about 300 million revenue per year. Cimos has 300 million credit liabilities per year. We know that the car industry is in crisis and that the scope of the activity is falling enormously, meaning that revenue will also decline in the future, but credit will still remain in this value. And that's where the difference comes in. As has already been said several times today, the owners are the first ones, of course the country is co-owner, we also know the ownership of the state, this is called the Blue Insurance Company, which also holds the pension fund. This is not indisputable, but it must be seen globally that this contribution of the state will not end up as it ended up in companies such as banks, Pekko, Paloma, Adria, Elan. In fact, in the end, it may be illegal aid, which is punishable by the European Commission. The case is Elan, where we paid 10 million fines. I certainly don't want to say that we're helping Tam today, that's what it's called to unsuspecting societies. Here the question is whether this investment is in the future or is only one of the companies that comes on the list of those companies in which we have only invested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u208	Thank you, too. I also give the floor to Mr Jerk Chekovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. President. At a time when Europe is turning its back on strict austerity, here in Parliament we are still dealing with whether we will support this law or not, by saying everyone would support it, but the debates are in a very different sense. We doubt ourselves whether we are doing the right thing or not. If we look over the border a little bit. Look, Merklov made it clear years ago that Opel can't fail. Then where was Hayek and the free hand of the market, I mean, this invisible hand of the market? What did the Austrians do to Strabag? They took him under national protection, equipped him and put him on the market for our own competition. Today, the Strabag Wall gives us what the Primorje could do. We, when we proposed a similar solution for the Primorje, was the answer of the then minister: "Well, the state is not Santa Claus." But right now she's become a Santa Claus because state banks don't get credit from this Primorje and we have workers at the institution. So what is now being proposed is actually just a departure from what we have had in practice so far. And there's no good bank recovery without economic recovery. However, I think it is clear to everyone, and above all to the Minister for the Economy, that we will support those companies that have markets that have a perspective. Last but not least, in the specific case of Cimos, as I know, the first thing is whether they trust this company or not, or whether they will buy these products in the long run. And the answer was, "Yes, we do." It is about decommissioning this company, and it must also partially divest itself with the sale of Litostroj Power, but I do not want to talk in Parliament about the concrete measures that a company must take now. This is a model where other companies can also be helped. But I repeat, those who have markets that have a perspective and who are over-indebted because of the crisis and, as a result, are also familiar with this crisis in the crisis of our banks. And worst of all, these banks have passed this crisis on to the public sector or on the burden of taxpayers. There are legitimate concerns as to whether all these investments will be the ones they will bring. But in the economy, the economy doesn't go risk-free, and that's what the minister warned us when he said we were taking risks. However, this risk is relatively low higher than the effects we can have if we lose a company that employs 3,000 workers in Slovenia. Do you know what a social bomb this is for our cash register? And once again, it is a temporary entry of the state into these companies, with the tendency to strengthen these companies and then sell them, preferably profitably. We all believe that this economic situation will ever change. And that's what this is all about. Once again, Europe has finally come to know, at the head of Mr Barroso, who is meeting Mrs Merklova right now, that this strict, rigid austerity policy must be turned its back. But things need to be combined – what we are trying to do in this new coalition. Therefore, I would only suggest that if we really want to help this company, as well as others who have a perspective, it is good for them to send as few negative signals as possible abroad or to mix our customers, potentials and partners with how unpredictable this is. Let's let ourselves stop doing these bear services. Let's get down to business, because I really don't think we have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you. There is still an interest in the debate, so I invite you to report. Mr. Bojan Starman has his first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm listening to this debate, and I didn't want to call first, but still. Personally, I am a very strong opponent in subsidies and aid to companies. Don't worry, I'll support this marriage because I think it's right to do something. In doing so, I must say that all companies in our country in need of money must be looked at. We need to make a system, what to do with these companies. It should also be said that there is probably something very wrong with this company. The company has EUR 400 million of credit, which is a lot of money, and it is strange that this has been largely approved. Of course, the company cannot return it, it is said that something bad is wrong with the company itself. It is not productive to companies that are seriously ill, it is not productive, it is not profitable, it has no very large internal control, etc. I myself had the opportunity to find myself in at least four companies in a very difficult situation. I couldn't get any help from anywhere. These were the companies of Alpina, Jelovica, Planika, Mura. I said I wasn't the one who could get help, I got negative answers everywhere, both for extra credits and for any help. Then it was necessary to spit into the hands, to do order in companies, to make thorough recovery and to align revenue with costs, and we did so in all companies. In the end, I said, thank God I didn't get help because if I didn't get help, I wouldn't do anything. And I'm afraid that this will be a cover-up and an incentive for everyone who is doing bad work to go and look for additional funds elsewhere and continue to do bad. So you have to tie them up in some way, bring them into these things. I already said that we went into some kind of capitalism that I called when I once wrote something, "catch the cash" capitalism. The fact is that people, business leaders have been very bad at taking care of development, new technologies and everything, because it was easier to go after a state subsidy, we've distributed a lot over the last 20 years, we've given a lot of help, with very painful effects. Most of these companies are nowhere. And of course you went to the company for money, if you didn't make it to the company, you went to the bank, and when you had enough money, then you ran out of money, same in banks, same everywhere. This is our game that is being restored and spinning, and it is actually very poorly mastered in our system. That is why these aids are indeed a source of comfort. Nevertheless, we know that something must be done. There's something else I'd like to say. You were talking about Primor, other companies, Radeč, what I know, even the jury would say, about the Alps, that we should, and there are hundreds of companies that would need extra money. It is right to look for as many jobs as possible. Of course, I agree with this, but there is only something that needs to be done to make significant structural movements in these companies, to start managing rationally and not always looking for some help outside. It is true that this is such an exceptional case at present. I just wanted to say that, even the Primorje, which was mentioned, I don't understand, including bankruptcy procedures, everything is connected. I was in the event of bankruptcy, which ended after five months in a large company where production did not stop for either a second or five minutes. And, of course, companies that are already out there already in bankruptcy. Why don't a group of capable people get organized in Primor and bankrupt people would rent them all the business assets they're going to sell and finally "sneak" without stuff. It was the same in Mura. Why didn't we get practically free of those equipment and those things so we could move on? Why couldn't he have stayed a state company if he didn't have another owner? And we've been looking, and we want to do it on every force. The whole species is things that can be done with good will and with the right approach. And it's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u212	Thank you, too. Mirko Brulc gets the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you, Comrade Starman. I'll continue with you. That wasn't euphoria. It wasn't a funeral speech either. But we have the Glass Oak, Sveo, Letrica, Unior, Idria, Gorenje. What else can I tell you? These are the companies that carry us. And if they need a little help, can we help them or not? Look, we have a number of small entrepreneurs, 50, 60 employees. In Shempas, there's a barn that exports, equips ships in Norway, and the furniture had to go. We also have great managers. And let's give you a little support. And they're not just about their own profits, they're about the company's operation. We have Europe, we have Brussels, we have a stepmother in Brussels. You know, Merklov already knows why the whole world is squeezing, even Europe, why it is destroying Greece and so on. What did the banks invest there, and what does he want to get back? When I drive from Nova Gorica to Ljubljana, I meet hundreds of Romanian, Bulgarian vans. In the morning, they do some work there for 5 or 10 euros a few hours and drive home waste from a great beautiful Europe. All the buses go west this weekend, I don't know what they're doing, how they deserve some euro, and there's a bus for the house, where they drive, see, old plastic chairs, old cars and stuff. I don't want this to be Slovenia. Maybe someone in Europe wants to. That's why they squeeze us, and we're jamming us, and we're giving them silence. Look, the compression of the public sector, again it's extremely up-to-date, I don't know, our minister says, and they're going to save, they're going to save. Okay, but let's talk about it when I go to the hospital, or do I want to sleep over there, and they won't operate on me because there's no money, or when that old guy in the nursing home gets one diaper instead of two paid out of social security. Is that what we want? Do we want children to be hungry for only those who have money to attend high and high schools? My ID was stolen a while ago. I got new ones in two days. This is the service of the state. And it's commendable. They're not all incompetent, and they're not doing anything, and so on. And if we figure out what good companies help us if we don't have a culture, if we don't have a sport, if we don't have any other activities. So it's not all black, it's not all white. Some of the lectures I listened to here today may be part of the Kumrov school, but this was not a lecture on this page. We must save the economy and help it where it helps the economy. Yeah, good companies. But we can't just think of the bad ones. The worst thing is, the pleasure is, "oh, the company went bankrupt, and now the workers are going to the employment office and the thing is done." Whose cost are they when they're there and they're not useful, and so on, they don't pay any contributions? And the circle spins again. With this spiral of savings, we do tremendous damage to the whole society. You need to save where there are reserves. But something on this quality level has to stay. And let's give the economy a chance with a law like this today that workers will have a job, that we will sell products that will be interesting to the world and that we will bring back a circle of normal consumption, investment, new buildings and so on. You don't have to be too smart about that. This is probably what we all want, and only the profession has to say what needs to be done in concrete terms. We all say young people have to be hired. That's a flossule. What jobs, what they're gonna do, what they're gonna have to pay and whatnot, that's a profession thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you, too. The next one gets the word "magic." Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Given that Mr Brulc has mentioned how many diapers he will have at home for the elderly, one or two, I do not think this has a direct bearing on how much guarantees the State will give to Cimos or to another company. It's a pure demagogic representation of the actual state of affairs. There can always be some general economic trends, such as deficits, diapers or perhaps some other services that older ones need. Let's talk about what it really is. The answer must be given that if we are talking about the European Union, we need to be aware of something. We have signed, Slovenia, all treaties that mean full membership of Slovenia in the European Union. And they also mean we're using the euro. Of course, this means that Slovenians and Slovenians decided on this, as for their own country, by a referendum. And the will of the people has been very, very clearly expressed here. For this reason, I believe that even at some recent meetings, the so-called anti-European movement is, of course, legitimate and, of course, requires an answer. Also in connection with the word to ask people if they want socialism, as Mr Meh says. We threw away socialism. He was unjust to many people, he caused many hardships to people and many problems and, of course, privileged a caste. For this reason, I would ask you not to mention in any question the discarded system that was the predecessor of communism, which we also know of. I don't want to start ideologically, but you are introducing ideological topics into the issue of guarantees for businesses. And there's no connection to that, but we can also connect the flight to the moon with that if you want. Of course, it is indeed true that countries are helping the economy, in fact it is true that countries are helping individual businesses, but it is necessary to look at the structure. It is necessary to look at the structure of ownership and what are the next measures to ensure that the country receives the money back or that the guarantees are not cashed. But if the guarantees are cashed out, then this country is worse off. Then, in fact, this means that the ratings will fall and that in fact the country will have an even greater deficit and that the state will not be able to settle its obligations. This measure, which I do not object to, must be followed by other measures. Also in the area of savings. The PM said 800 million minus is in the state budget. This is our budget, this is the budget of the state of Slovenia. This is not the budget of the Social Democrats, this is not the budget of the Positive Slovenia and it is not the budget of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but this budget will have a higher deficit of 2% of the social gross product. Do you know what that means? Over 6%. Today we may wonder why and how, but these are facts. And if this is a country, we need to resolve these businesses under European Union legislation, and we need to resolve these businesses within the framework of the rules applicable to Europe, where the democratic system is applicable and not some other rejected system, which some are so keen to mention. Yes, the minister said the state is not Santa Claus, Mr. Chekovin. Santa always needs money anyway. And that money is running out. And unfortunately, time is running out. And time is money, so they say. In addition to these measures, measures in other areas should be proposed, measures should also be proposed in the area of banking, consolidation of public finances and so on. And actually do this, because it's the only way we're going to be successful and it's going to take a few years for the country to actually come out of the crisis. These injections will be understated according to the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr. Brultz, I think he was misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u217	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u218	Thank you. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u219	Mr. Shircelj, I've been listening to various content for two hours, so I've gone a little too. But today we're saving a company or a company to have some standard in our lives. The services I was talking about before, I said diapers, like. If we have companies that will work, you laugh, but tomorrow we can be there, a car accident, and it's all over. It's not funny. I know what the standard of a medical checkbook allows. Look at the right that Europe requires us to have a worker work for 500 euros, for example. With what right do they require us to give up a social standard? With what right do we narrow down problems in the fields of education, culture and the like? All of this can be resolved if we collect taxes if we abolish the grey economy if we adopt a small work law, if we adopt a proposal from the previous government to introduce cash and so on. And we have about a billion in the state budget. That's not what we're talking about. To tax those who are extremely rich and to take away the wealth that they have acquired in an untransparent way. It's very simple. Look, my wages, from what I've been working, so many years, it's known how much I've earned, and I can have a plot in Hawaii or not. This can be found and taxed. Let's take a bite to eat. It's just simple things. Not to say, tomorrow there won't be any, there won't be any regression, there won't be any pay, there won't be any transportation to work, there won't be time for vacation. Yeah, what are people gonna do?Oh, my God! I agree to end our vacation for food if we have wages like in Germany. And in some of these companies that I've listed before, our workers are no less productive than the ones up there. But they're obviously in the wrong country at home. And because we're servicing all these tusks today. Who did we confiscate the property to? None. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you. The next debater is Mr Joseph Horvat. Excuse me? You will be given the opportunity to apply for a hearing. Were you mentioned in the debate? I'm sorry. You have the floor, Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u221	Mr Tanko, leader of the parliamentary group, was at the beginning when he said, "Be fair." Thank you very much. When I listened to the debate, someone said, "The former government, the government of Borut Pahor, has stopped the transition and we are going back to socialism." That's what I was reacting to when I was talking about socialism. But I cannot agree that socialism has been a perverse system, that for whom, even if someone has suffered, today, ladies and gentlemen, all those who do not live, who also cannot buy bread. And for those, it's a screwed-up system. And if we are talking about socialism now, often some of us are talking about how socialism was. Return the diplomas, ladies and gentlemen, return the property you have received there, ladies and gentlemen, sell what you have acquired in this system or what we have acquired in this system. How much of our assets do we have in this system now? We're selling the last thing we have left from that system. And for that, of course, with all of us who voted at the time, I came into the system in which we are today. But today we should be talking about marriage. About the law or changes to the law that will help those who have problems. In the meantime, there are many questions to be asked. We don't have the answers to all these questions, and we probably never will. So once again, let's be fair, let's not talk about something that we don't have to talk about, and let's accept changes to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u222	Thank you. In fact, from the discussions that have taken place today, it is clear that in my opinion almost everyone supports this text of the law. The next debater is Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! I think that the key thing or, if you want, is the key value for the better functioning of our society of a value called trust. There was much talk about values in general yesterday at a consultation with the President of the Republic entitled Slovenia 2030. If there's no trust within the family, the family doesn't work. If there is no trust within the village community, there is no compassion. If there is no trust within the economic operator – between business partners – it does not work. This can also be generalised to the community at country level. And now, specifically. I trust Mr Stepišnik, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, that he has good purpose in this amendment to the law. I trust my esteemed colleague, Bojan Starman, when he spoke of the information relating to Cimos. I trust him, they're worried, but I trust him. I trust my colleague Jerk Čechovin when he spoke about receiving information from the Secretary of State, who received information from the foreign business partners of Cimos that they would remain partners of Cimos. But here I have a problem, colleagues and colleagues. If I said I trusted Mr Chehovin, but I don't really trust him if I trust this Secretary of State, sometimes our fellow Member. Why? I think they'll be able to confirm and appeal to all the MPs. Because, I'm going to help him, I'm going to say recklessly that the act of money in Pomurje is the same as throwing money into the abyss. And this is today the State Secretary of this Slovenian government. Help me trust him, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Opening login option. I give my word to Mr. Brank Fick.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u225	Dear colleague Horvath, now on behalf of the MPs. The statement, which was summarized, by Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišić, the current Secretary of State, was not correct on your part. Mr Gaspar made a statement, giving a comparison to which horses in which part of Slovenia should be given priority and should also be assisted by the State. Indeed, and as he spoke of Luka Koper as a priority for coastal territory, he also spoke of the priorities of Pomurje, geothermal energy, investment in tourism and so on. It is true, however, that in that statement, he said that funds had also been laid down through the law of Pomur, which were not properly focused on priorities, and that he then used the phrase that they had been placed in the abyss. And that's the truth, that's the point. Please use the complete content in such statements, not just the sentences that some are responding to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u226	Thank you. However, I would really like to point out once again that today we are considering the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble, and that this should be the starting point, as once again I stress that almost all of you who have debated and defined yourself on this law have identified yourself as supporting it. Let us also discuss in this spirit in the future. But Replica wanted Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. I couldn't agree more. We're talking about this marriage. And once again, trust is the most valuable thing here, trust. Dear colleague Branko Ficko, we're both reading our local newspaper Vestnik, and I'm doing a little commercial for him now. What I said was exactly what I read in this newspaper on the cover of this week. If a lie had been written there, the Secretary of State would surely have been able to request a correction through his apparatus. He's not here. I insist on what I said. But basically, as I said, I was quoting our local newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u228	Unfortunately, there is no replica on the replica, but it is possible to apply further for the discussion, but once again I stress, let us remain in this law, which also applies to Pomurje. There is no difference in this law, so I think that with high expectations you can expect everyone from all backgrounds to enforce this law in companies where you come from. The next debater will be Mr. Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I didn't finish my thoughts before. I would point out that we should not forget in these one-time actions what I always remind and I think it is very important for all of us to improve the conditions of our economy and improve the competitiveness of our economy. So please, let's do in this area, let's do as much as we can to do systemic things that will be the same for everyone, let's take a good look, please all, forget about raising VAT, see that energy will decrease, we are the most taxed in the world, if not all, to lower labour costs by contributing to the working relationship, if not to all, at least to the labour intensive industries. I am a few years ago, at a time when the crisis was the hottest, the minimum wage rose by 24% or something like that or 22.9%, I asked nicely, stop it, you can't do it in companies where 95% of people on minimum wage, you have no place to take this thing to do it. We have done so and made the economy more competitive. At the time I said 40,000 people will lose their jobs in three, four years, they'll be on the stock market. These are borderline cases where it takes very little, very little stupidity for people to lose their jobs. And there's no going back to these jobs. The textile industry, now woody, all in a row of decline, because with a small discharge in certain systemic matters, these conditions should be improved and these things settled. It is necessary to know which companies are, which have a current or business positive that they are charged only by credit. A few more things that are here, including bureaucracy, let us speed up the transfer, the effective functioning of this bad bank. Let us draw out these bad loans, relieve them and allow them to operate in a quality and profitable manner. I don't know what we're waiting for or why we're not going to do this because here we're going to have a huge systemic impact on all economic operators. Let us take what we discussed this morning seriously how to manage state assets, how to give restructuring to this work, which works casually, where it works poorly. I know that in Slovenia we are able to do much more. I know we are able to look for better management conditions, at least 60, 70 thousand jobs. Trust me, even if we reduce our contributions, for example, to cash more. But I'll tell you, if we raise VAT by 2 or 3% points, we're going to figure out that we're going to cash 300, 400 million, but actually we're going to get less effectively, we're going to lose in the long run, we're going to charge everything. Please don't think about these things, about the various fees and all the things that affect these things. Let us once understand what an entrepreneur is, always tell us, we need peace, we need the same conditions as outside. Let's take a look at this, because we all know what it's like, let's ensure this systemic thing, please, in the area of the economy, too, in the area of finance, there are a lot of these things that are happening, and let's get serious once and for all, and agree on some things that are absolutely necessary. I'd say I support this one more time, but I had to finish this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar is next to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u231	Dear fellow Members of the Government! I would say that I really don't understand your discussions today, because you are discussing as if you are in opposition today. And I find this debate unconstructive and somehow infertile. Now I don't know if you haven't managed to switch that you're government Members today, because you have a government in your hands, you have a majority, you have a solution in your hands, and it's your job, take responsibility, take decisions, make decisions, and solve things! And all this waste of time is unconstructive, everything is in your hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u232	Thank you. The last in this round of debates is Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you so much for saying that. Here I have some of the Primorski news from last July, where it says that owners invited partners to recapitalise, from which they also expect to buy for their shares. This was reported last July. It says that the non-binding recapitalisation bids were sent by five international funds, but the owners of Cimos were not thrilled and expected to increase their bids. Thus, there were five potential investors who would have invested, probably at market prices, in what was valuable, but the owners were not satisfied. These disgruntled owners are now putting pressure on the national assembly, on us who feel like some kind of administration of the Karitas or the Red Cross. What they didn't want from the market, they want from politics. Among these owners is the Blue Insurance Company, which is in principle a pension fund. And this Blue Insurance company should invest surpluses in safe investments, but it invested in a risky investment. Is that right? And this Blue Insurance is run by the miracle boy of the majority in this coalition: Borut Jamnik. Who are we saving now, Cimos or the pension fund? I would very much like a clear answer here, because this is an answer that you are obliged to give. We're not just saving Cimosa, we're mainly saving a pension fund called Blue Insurance. This has been planned, calculated, the value of its investment may now be 20 times less valuable than it is introduced in its business books. We save with this balance sheet of Blue Insurance. Yeah, look, I think it's kind of like that. And I wonder what measures will be taken against those who have so irresponsibly invested in pension money. This is also the duty of the state as owner, 100 per cent indirect, Blue Insurance. Probably would've been the responsible owner if he found out. On the other hand, I see here in this report that Cimos has opened five, six companies in Bosnia, where there are thousands of employees. He has invested 73 million euros. The new job, which is likely to open up somewhere in Slovenia, is worth about 50,000 euros, which is about what we need to create a new job. Here's factor 1.5, it says, 75,000 euros per job. I do not understand that in a Bosnia job is 1.5 times more expensive than the job in Slovenia. I don't think it makes sense, by any standard. And there's probably something in this business that's not exactly right, which should be looked at, examined, and also asked for responsibility. Even the owners, including the board. And here's the problem. We have on the one hand a company that has about EUR 400 million of annual transport and at the same time this company has about EUR 400 million of debt. If this company had been making 10% of the profits for ten years, it would hardly have been enough, and it wouldn't have been shared, barely enough to go to zero, barely enough. This is very easy to calculate. We're not probably talking about a permanent solution here, but about some temporary, we need something now ad hoc to invest that you will solve something ad hoc, just enough that these owners will somehow "smuggling" across and then something will follow. This is not a responsible move, although I do not oppose it because it is in principle a job but an irresponsible one. I suggest you do something.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u234	Thank you. We've exhausted everything you've been reported to. And Mr. Secretary wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u235	Answer. Cimos can be helped in many ways. Previously, we have talked about equity, debt capital, and we can help Cimos with the capital restructuring with the mezzanine capital. Otherwise, Cimos is required, this is the subordinate capital that goes into the company, into the balance sheet on the passive side and can be paid out after five or ten years by the investee. These are some techniques. I have time. If you ever come to see me, we can work out Cimos very carefully. Also, EBITDA, a five-timer, is that condition in relation to debts where banks say that the company is still sustainable and is worth lending to. And that's exactly what we're trying to do at Cimos for a long time. But today is not the theme of Cimosa, today is the topic of marriage. This is as an example, that Cimos can be solved by such a model. This is a law that applies to all companies in Slovenia, not just Cimos. We have Maribor Foundry Maribor on the other side, which is a completely different problem. There were banks in our ministry at a meeting where 17 million euro has negative capital, traffic of 60 million, loss of 49 million in one year, because all those losses that were previously hidden in three years have been shown in the last year. Whoever was the CEO of the company knows that the balance sheet can be adjusted pretty well for three years, but after three years, "your plane goes down" and then it's an accident and they're all dead. I would ask, in fact, I see that you have a lot of good views, opinions on this law, let us stay by law when it comes specifically to businesses, and I would like to avoid the rescue of businesses in Parliament, in the newspapers and so on. Peck's got a bad experience. We brought the company to an end, we thought it was already resolved that we had achieved what we wanted to protect the workers, because the basic contract was very good, but when we spoke here in Parliament when the buyer had our annex, the agreement, he didn't want to sign it. This is one of the golden experiences we have known before, and it will also apply in the future that business relations cannot be resolved in the public, in the media and so on. The business relationship must be settled between the two parties and, after it has been completed, it can be debated and then they can discuss whether it is right or wrong. If you do this sooner, you're always in some subservient position. And to the Croatian buyer, the whole of Slovenia was now in a subordinate position. I will never allow myself to be provoked by one of the press again or by anyone else to make a statement. As they say in the police department: the investigation is under way, wait until it's finished, then we'll give you the following information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u236	Thank you, too, and I find that there is no longer a desire for debate. Replica, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Look, now Mr. Secretary said he could show me the data. I would suggest we get them when we discussed this law for two days. The Government referred solely to Cimos, certain companies and Cimos when it introduced the law into the National Assembly. And that's why the debate is about Cimos, because you cited this exclusively as a way of solving it. This is what you wanted to do with the law. The changes you have proposed in this law also go in the direction of saving large systems because you delete limits. It's also going in the direction of rescue after, I'll say, adjusted interest rates as well. You no longer maintain a commercial interest rate in the law, but rather one set by the government. In this approach, this is a particular situation for those chosen for this case. But Cimos is the number one of this project. That's what you said, you showed up on your first business trip. You showed this by attending this meeting with your recovery agent, Mr. Misic, and so on. That's what made the law. And what we are discussing has a basis in your actions and in what the government wrote in the accompanying text for the submission of the law. And if you thought of it that way, it would be good or logical, wise to explain it and document it in this part, so that at least we know what it is. Now we read something in the Primorski news and we comment, something there and something there and so on. It's not a principle, it's not a way to work. If you want decisions by the opposition as well, you have other mechanisms for coalition, then this should be explained that the opposition can use this and judge. And in this part, you don't have this program. You do not have an analysis of the effects of this project. And worst of all, you wisely avoided the Blue Insurance. This is certainly not a good thing, Mr Minister, because it is the owners of a pension fund that has invested in a risky investment and has obviously lost a lot. If he did not want to sell last year when conditions were better than this year, then this capital investment of the Blue Insurance Company in Cimos is still significantly less than last July. Is that what we both agree with? Here. Nobody knows how many times. What is the difference between the cartridge entered in the book and the current value of this cartridge? Factor 1: 25, 1 : 30, 30 times less. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u238	Thank you. At the time of this discussion, he wanted to sign up or also applied to Mr Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u239	That's a nice hello, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the position of the Slovenian People's Party, we announced support for this law in order that this well-intentioned purpose, which I also believe, would have been realized and would not have broken even around Cimos, which is mentioned in the very explanation of this law. I can say calmly that we have also talked about Cimos in the previous government, and we have also tried to find solutions that go into the legal framework of the country, the legal framework of the European Community, in which we and the rule of law must also be respected. Today's dilemmas on this particular case will certainly be on a case-by-case basis. However, I fully agree with the Minister that it is probably not, or certainly is, a state assembly, a place to talk about business secrets or not business secrecy, because they are often social problems, but some entirely business matters. It is true, however, that we are coming to a rather thin ice so that it can become a social phenomenon in the country when the desire and real needs for this state aid are significantly greater than our budget will be able to manage. Today's discussions have also gone in this direction, as we have also said in the Government, whether such interventions, also in the light of past experience, are safe, given that we have very few good cases of these companies, which have tried to resolve with State aid that in many cases these funds have been lost. I fully support the debate of those who have spoken here that, in the face of this problem, we need to create the conditions for having as many jobs as possible, to find those measures that are as close to our reach as possible, especially for a short period of time here in European funds. In the government, we have also adopted a specific programme in the field of leadership, which is also possible to obtain good credits, wood industries and similar measures, thereby making this start-up of the economy and regulating our situation in this country. I'm afraid, and in a way, I've also been afraid of some of the debates here today that went back this way so that we won't give up anything. I am very afraid that this path, which, as I have already said, I support, is to get a new impetus and new jobs, and, on the other hand, the words of Mr Starman that we need a stable economic environment, an environment in which the financial sector in which banks will operate, an environment in which we will also transparently and publicly manage state assets, that these are the key messages that we all need together, the government, the coalition, the opposition, to bring together in the coming weeks, the month that we will also have normal conditions for this work. Therefore, I also propose what has already been said that we do not prolong this debate, that we all find that the majority support of this law is, the Minister has received the approval of this law on one side, and at the same time a number of warnings, which I believe are also aware that he is aware of trapping himself on this path, and that this law is adopted, in the coming days and weeks, we will focus on our key programmes, projects. I have also received an invitation today for a meeting of the National Assembly Committees on Friday, both financial and economic, where we will talk about the National Reform Programme. I think there are key tasks for us there, and then with those reform measures, we can also regulate this economic and fiscal side of our country. Once again, when we are aware of what the fall of Cimos and all related companies would mean, we are united in the Slovenian People's Party to support this law today and we will do so in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Since this was the last reported debater, I suppose no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment in 10 minutes in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 13th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 18.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u241	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue the 7th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Public Finance Balance in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a bill amending the Public Finance Balance Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 11th item of the agenda, this is the Consent to the Investment Classification of the Slovenian State Holding. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on consent to the Investment Classification of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which reads: The National Assembly agrees to the Investment Classification of the Slovenian State Holding Company of 28 February 2013. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the national working body of the assembly, proposes not to adopt the proposed decision. Mag. Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u242	Dear Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the agreement on classification, because we believe that the concept of governance of state assets as set out, namely the State Holding Act, the classification and the management guidelines, and only then the list of companies that go on sale or otherwise, is the only true logical order. So first the criteria, the determination of publicly available conditions and ways, then just what follows. Not the other way around. And the current government predicts that it will go in reverse order. Thus, in about 14 days, it will come with the first list of companies, without having neither the accepted classification nor the adopted management guidelines. So this list of companies is being drawn up in an untransparent manner in the Cabinet of the Finance Minister, and it will probably be known to Parliament when the government adopts it, and we will not know on what criteria, the criteria, how this list has been reached. I think that these guidelines, to which we agree today, could be an important good tool for drawing up such a proposal, so we will give it to the Slovenian Democratic Party and thereby support the classification.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovich, on behalf of the SLS Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u244	Also in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we firmly believe that the Slovenian State Holding should be operational as soon as possible. The adoption of the Investment Classification of the Slovenian State Holding is a key condition for operationalisation. We were disappointed at the Committee on Finance where we discussed it and found that the coalition decided to reject this classification, because we are convinced that this is the right way for the Slovenian Parliament to define the provisions and then also that transparent holding company manages these investments. We are opposed to the roads, so I can simply point out that we will also support the guidelines while at the same time opposeing the law amending the Slovenian State holding company, because I think we are delaying the necessary material, the property management material.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u245	Thank you very much. If there is no more need for explanation of vote, we shall proceed to the vote. Anyone else want to discuss it on their own? Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u246	As has been said, I will also support the classification of investments of the Slovenian State Holding and the Guidelines, which will be supported in the next 12th point. The fact is that, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, we make clear and loud what is stately, and by this classification we also tell what is strategically important, what is portfolio and what is important for the country. It would not be a problem to be against this classification if the new government coalition came with its classification and guidelines and did not do so. For the first time in Slovenian history we would speak publicly about public property, in accordance with the law and in the National Assembly, we would confirm, we would agree to sell, and that will not be the case. Of course you do different, you have no alternative, you have no other classification, the problem is because you have no solutions and the problem is because you have no vision. Today's debate has shown that some Members and Members of the former coalition will have a lot of problems and will obviously have to do something contrary to their own conscience, especially damage and loss to citizens and citizens, and thus lead the country, citizens and citizens into even greater poverty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u247	Dear Mr Pukšič, in addition to explaining your vote, there was also controversy. We move to a vote on the decision: The National Assembly agrees to the Investment Classification of the Slovenian State Holding Company of 28.2.2013. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the proposal for investment management guidelines. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for investment management guidelines is not suitable for further consideration. Mag. Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u248	We will vote against such a decision in the parliamentary group because we believe that the guidelines are appropriate and that they should be enforced. I would point out that because it's a twin with a classification, another fact that worries. This is the fact that the Slovenian State Holding Act has adopted the concept of managing state assets more comprehensively, economically, with certain yields, transparently and economically. However, during the transitional period until the adoption of classifications and guidelines, there is a temporary regime in place where policy can be very, very much involved in governance. This is the regime under which the Court, the Slovenian Compensation Society, whose supervisory board is the current ruling coalition, will make a very political change over the years, establish the management of this state property, and by doing what we will also see in the wake of the amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act, will also give consent to the Government. During the transitional period until these documents are adopted, this state property will be managed by the ruling coalition, not by this Parliament anymore, which means further involvement, a direct involvement of the ruling policy in the management of these shares. The adoption of those necessary conditions shall be withdrawn in order to distinguish between asset management and policy as the guidelines and classifications are withdrawn. By doing so, you report only one thing that you want to bring together a whole set of congregations, of course also the control councils, to replace the control councils according to political criteria, in a political way, so you also withdraw for a certain period of guidance and classification.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you very much. There is no longer any desire to explain the vote, so we are voting. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 28. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure on the draft guidelines has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Slovenian State Holding, an urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 24. 4. 2013 First of all, I am putting an amendment to Article 2, namely the amendment of New Slovenia. You want to explain your voice? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, for 31, for 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on this amendment and are moving on to the next article, namely Article 5 of the law, where the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has been tabled. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments tabled and the second reading of the bill under the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 9. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2a of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Trouble, an urgent procedure. We will proceed with the second reading and will proceed on the basis of the proposed amendment to Article 3 of 24. 4. 2013 We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 3rd Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek asked Mr Franz Bogovic about the adoption of the fiscal rule and the package of measures for fiscal consolidation. You want to explain your voice? Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. I guess there's a very expected explanation that I'm going to support my proposal. In view of the answers I have received at this meeting, I think that this debate is even more necessary, because when we talk about regulating public finances and certain commitments to be adopted by adopting a fiscal rule, some want to turn their words and look the truth in the eye, on the other hand, as is necessary. I am firmly convinced that the financial indicators we have in this country are so serious and that we have such a great responsibility to discuss this in this in-depth debate in the National Assembly as well as to find the right measures to start managing and managing public finances as soon as possible in this loving country. The answer was in the direction of, as if, within the mandate of the government in which I participated, there was a complete deficit in one year, as if all the problems of that time had occurred. I have already answered myself in the second additional question that there is also a need to look at a period of more governments. I do not want to burden and accuse any of them, but I firmly believe that the answer given by the Prime Minister has been in some way a diversion, not a search for solutions in these difficult times. That's why I think it's right for us to talk about this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u251	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a second proposal for a debate. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Tank, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek on Mr Jožet Tank's question on respect for the constitutional principle of equality before the law. Would you like to explain the proposal? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you very much. This meeting is essentially a meeting on unleavened bread. When it takes extremely little time for a matter that is actually advocated on the one hand to conflict and this same matter is opposed. There have been a lot of cases today that we've been dealing with, and this question of the letter is in fact a question of denied bread. We had the case of Member Borut Ambrožić when he was denied his support unanimously in the world of the Party Positive Slovenia. Alenka Bratušek also voted in favour of inviting Mr Ambrožič to resign or be expelled from office. Then it actually happened. When the same problem arose a few months later with Alenka Bratušek, the Council of Positive Slovenia did not decide, did not discuss it. The lady is the chairman of the Party of Positive Slovenia and has not initiated any procedures to discuss this at all. At the time of Mr Ambrožić's exclusion, he has made progress twice on the basis of, in fact, a diametric or completely identical decision; he has a mandate-holder and then also the Prime Minister. And given that you are very much in favour of raising political culture and that you are also very much in favour of the argument of political objectives, I have asked only the Prime Minister how, on the basis of these decisions and actions, she will ensure equal treatment in the procedures in which we find ourselves either politicians or citizens or anyone. The answer was arrogant. More questions than answers. I therefore propose that we also hold a debate on her answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. I'm calling off the vote. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u254	Madam Vice President! I will explain my vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. If we followed the usual manner of answering questions when the answer is uniform, we would not need any public debate or debate on the answer on whether we respect the constitutional principle of equality before the law, since respect for this constitutional principle is an axiom. It is true that during this time it was possible to discuss plagiarisms three times, once at the request of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, after we had decided on the public presentation of opinions and then had a public presentation of opinions in the National Assembly. The position of the Social Democrats Group that there is no need to hold a debate on the answer is that I am relying on this last public presentation of the opinions on plagiarism, because, as far as I can remember, there was no public presentation as short as this, a little over an hour, with the very clairvoyant participation of the interested and professional public. First public presentation, where several Members and Members were represented as representatives of the public concerned. And all that could be heard was very targeted politicisation on the one hand and on the other hand some reasoned judgments that plagiarism is a serious problem, that it is the resolution and decision-making of the institution on which each diploma was carried out. And it is possible to compare different cases, of course, and then it is possible to wonder how the same ones requiring a debate on this do not recognise the judgments of the Court. The judgment of the Court in relation to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u255	20 more seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u256	and not any other when it was also said that only a decision or legal procedure would be decided upon. [[...]] Plagiarism is a serious problem. There is no comparative review and reliable data in Europe on how much of this is, so I do not think that the National Assembly is the one who should decide plagiarism. So we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u257	Thank you very much. There was no time measurement at the time of the connection, so it was measured over the screen, so I reminded you how much time there is. Thank you very much, mag. Spending. Mr. Jože Tanko in his own name? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much. My question was about double criteria for the same thing. When, due to the suspicion of plagiarism, one of the Members is expelled from the parliamentary group, the other because of the same suspicion of plagiarism is protected and is even making progress. We are not interested in a public debate or a public presentation of opinions. We are interested in the double criteria and application of the principle of equality in these procedures. In view of the fact that, in a particular case, the policy has been decided, I wondered whether such a policy is capable of ensuring the principle of equal treatment for everyone in that country, if so identical to the case, at the same stage of the procedure, it takes two different decisions. And if I only quote, the Secretary-General of the Party of Positive Slovenia said that what is prescribed, paragraphs, whole texts and also on several sides, is not in accordance with the values of the Party of Positive Slovenia, its statute and programme. This was in the case of Mr Borut Ambrožić. You have a video on TV. And the next time the case of Alenka Bratušek was addressed, says another important official of Positive Slovenia, the leader of the parliamentary group, that plagiarism or what Alenka Bratušek appears to be something completely minor. These are double criteria, double criteria in the same phase, identical things. And I want to answer this: whether it's a concept, it's a coalition's behaviour, it's a behaviour or a priority for a group of Members to decide on these matters. We have cases of recapitalisation, we have a whole bunch of intervention and similar matters, and this is an important question that needs a clear answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you very much. I see there's more interest in explaining it in your own name. Mrs. Masha Kociper and I can see a few more hands. I'm opening the application. I suggest you focus on explaining your voice and your reasons. The first word is Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I will vote against such a proposal. With the words that we need to discuss in a unified manner, of course, there is nothing more than an attempt to discredit Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, who is in the formal process of determining the authenticity of her master's assignment. This shall be decided by the authorities which have to decide. It has repeatedly assured itself that if plagiarism is found, it has withdrawn. I oppose such abuse of the institution of the question of the Member, which is aimed at a completely different issue, is true of questions to Members or perhaps to the Secretary-General and of the abuse of parliamentary time for such distortions to be made public here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u262	Of course I'll vote against it. It is, of course, interesting that Mr Tanko, who likes to stress how it is always necessary to respect the Rules of Procedure in this Chamber, has repeatedly violated not only the Rules of Procedure, has abused articles of the Constitution, including Article 14 of the Constitution, and has referred to it because he wanted to have a clarification of the double criteria. He didn't understand, and he still doesn't understand what article 14 of the Constitution is meant for today. It is also true that today he has finally admitted publicly that he is not really interested in public debate, which means that he has abused the Rules of Procedure twice. He once abused himself because he couldn't even ask a question, even though he knew what he was doing. This was not because he was wrong or not properly trained, but because he knowingly abused his position and wanted to bring unrest into the hall and into politics, and that policy that we do not carry here in principle. This is to talk about what a party at home is actually doing. I believe that this action of Mr Tank will be remembered, at least I personally know that I will always remember it when he gives me the Parliamentary of the National Assembly's plan, and I will remind him to look at his actions first. So I hope that this will not happen again and that this will be a reminder and a memory of what should not be done in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u264	Thank you. I will not support the proposal for a debate on the issue which I believe is responsible for this competent institution, which is within the competence of the faculty and the statutes and other rules of certain steps as to how suspicion is resolved. I also do not intend to define myself as an internal party. However, I expect from anyone who has been identified, it has been confirmed that the plagiarism was also bearing the consequences of the findings. Therefore, it would be expected that those who have already completed the procedure would comply with the completed procedure, while those who are still in the process would at least ensure that they bear the consequences, as the section or commission will find out. Once again, I would like to point out that in the Chamber of the National Assembly we have witnessed a meeting of doubts about all diplomas, because the representatives of the political minor of the Slovenian Democratic Party have come up with a plan even with the idea that all diplomas at various stages should be examined. I do not know whether this is the only problem facing Slovenia and whether the irregularities found make it necessary to question any document that has been issued to anyone. So once again, I would say that I feel that the responsibility of those who caused such doubts by their irresponsible conduct is so much greater, and I would like this never to happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Ambrožich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In fact, the speaker gave me a point of view because she would like to continue when she was working to see that the procedures were completed in individuals and not in others. So this gives me an opportunity to say, in my case, or express my surprise, that I miraculously lost the marking in my polling post, so "mag." before my name and surname, and also at the door of the office, although in my opinion and in my opinion my legal adviser considers the proceedings and also in general in the legal jargon in my case, as I have said, are not concluded, otherwise, final and even less legal, since I have stated publicly that I will appeal or initiate an administrative dispute at the decision of the Senate of the Faculty of Law or as a consequence of the decision of the Senate of the University of Maribor. As long as the proceedings are pending before the Administrative Court, I intend to use the title for which I have invested a great deal of effort and energy to obtain it and for me there is certainly no sign of "four signs with intervals of value" as some wish to present it here or outside the public. As far as plagiarism is concerned, I think that general thinking or diction, because we cannot talk about plagiarism, but the methodology of writing scientific texts, which, in my case, according to my personal beliefs and beliefs, has evolved for decades in all colleges, as well as in the Faculty of Law in Maribor, which would be an appropriate analysis, as the speaker said, taking into account the principle of equality of all diplomas, masters and doctoral works, has proved to be a systemic error, which we will also prove in the administrative dispute. That is why I will abstain from voting because, as I say, I want to prove my right as an equal before the law in the procedures prescribed for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I can still see the desire to explain my voice. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Maybe someone else? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Jeraj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. I myself will propose to hold a debate, to support it, for two reasons. The first is that some of you have wondered why such questions. At the same time, I would like to remind you of what the former Prime Minister Janez Janša had to answer, and of things that had nothing to do with the prime minister's function, he always answered these questions, even though they were personal matters and things that were not really appropriate for the question. The second reason why I will support this proposal is that, as long as Mrs Alenka Bratusek was running for office, I appealed to her on the day you decided to become Prime Minister to ask her to determine whether her task was plagiarism before we went to the vote. This courage alone has not been able, nor has its coalition partners been able to do so, and they would also expect them to demand that their master's job is plagiarism before they give her a voice. If that were to happen, we would not be discussing this at all today, so I will support the proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Let me also say that I have been informed by the expert services of the National Assembly that a document concerning the name of Mr Ambrožić has come from the Faculty, so that none of us has taken the initiative to do so. Mr. Borut Ambrožič, for other matters, you will be able to contact the professional services of the National Assembly. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Romane Tomc's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anja Kopač Dark to Mrs Romane Tomc's question on legislation in the field of social activities. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following the proposal from Ambassador Jasmine Opec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Justice Minister, Dr Senk Plitčanič, to Mrs Jasmine Opec's question on justice measures. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Sonja Ramšak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Senko Plitčanič, to Mrs Sonja Ramšak's question on the reform of the justice system. Here is the explanation for Mrs Sonja Ramšak's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think that the reform of justice is one of the key tasks that the coalition should carry out in this mandate. I am sorry that justice reform has not taken place in the last year, when Janez Janša led the government. When we decided to become independent and establish our own Republic of Slovenia, we wrote in the Constitution as the highest administrative act that Slovenia is a legal and social state. Unfortunately, in recent times we have increasingly found that it is neither legal nor just but even less social. And given that we have to say that Mr Minister was very exhausted in the answers, both to Mrs Opec's question and to mine, but some of his answers have not convinced me, and I think it is right that a general debate is being held mainly in the part where the debate on the permanent judicial mandate was held. When I asked him further what his position was on a permanent or limited term, his replies were very clear that he was still insisting on a permanent term, but he wanted to introduce some education for judges. Then I wonder, I think the judges are highly qualified and why then additional education and training. Also, the fact that the proceedings before the courts take too long deserves to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Janez Ribič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Infrastructure and Space of Mr Sam Omrzel to Mr Janez Ribič's question on the construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section. Here you go, Mr. Janez Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! For the fifth year since I am in this National Assembly, I have been asking questions from Members regarding the construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway section, more precisely the Ptuj-Macelj border crossing, the border crossing with Croatia. I think it's very important, because nothing has changed since I first asked the question. It's supposed to be a building file. This building documentation did not even find space on the end of Styria, but was stored somewhere in a warehouse in Jesenica. It has been repeatedly said here that land is being bought off, that the clean route is being cleared, that objects are being destroyed and, of course, that is not true. There's nothing to clean, nothing to tear down objects, nothing to do. I want to say that I think this is one of the very important highways, which leads from Germany, the high-speed motorway via Austria to Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and beyond to Turkey. And only these 13 kilometers in this area, I would say to the European community, this part of the highway is not arranged. When you come from the Croatian side, it's a real shame when you come to the border and you see a big board of the European Union, and then there's a road like this. I am sure that those Members who come from Styria or Prekmur are also well aware that we need to talk about this here in the National Assembly, because we do not even have the resources in the budget for this and this is our common problem. I see nothing wrong with asking this question, and I also expect you to support this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 30, for 43. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law on scholarships in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a grant law is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 73, for 2. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on War Disabled Persons, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on War Disabled Persons is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 26. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, the reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 22. 4. 2013 We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4 of the Act. Members of the Positive Slovenia Group, the Social Democrats, the National Gazette and the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia tabled it. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 4 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. As I see it not, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been adopted unanimously. By this I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft resolution on the National Social Protection Programme for the period 2013-2020. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would have made the motion for a resolution inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act, the reduced procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 22. 4. 2013 We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Anyone else or just Mr. Daniel Krivec on behalf of the SDS? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u274	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this amendment, we are pursuing what everyone in their debates is committed to, this is to allow for competitiveness in this area. In this amendment, we only remove the obligation defined in the two indents by the obligation to register public transport only by an undertaking which has buses, we believe that this should be left open because, due to the modernisation of new means of transport, there are other means of transport, it is said that this part is regulated, and in the fourth paragraph, which governs replacement vehicles and additional vehicles on individual lines, is once again under the law the obligation to be a bus. We propose that it be replaced by the text 'passenger transport vehicle'. I don't think we're breaking any concept of this law. We also support other things. A number of smart amendments were adopted on the committee as well. We believe, however, that this proposal somehow reduces the restriction of competition, which is too rigid for buses in this law. I would ask for support because this enables us to effectively open up the possibility of competitiveness in this segment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u275	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Let me warn you, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two becomes irrelevant. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia and of the Social Democrats to Article 4. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 4 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I see you don't. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I find that the law has been adopted unanimously. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the National Road Safety Programme for the period 2013-2022. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have to take this, and I will abstain from voting. As I said here in this hall a few weeks ago, the municipality of Illyrian Bistrica was appointed on April 2nd as a congregation with no traffic lights, no two - lanes. And here I'm asking in public who's responsible. A municipality or a state? We've got [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u277	Explanation of the voice does not paralyze and question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u278	Dear Vice-President, someone has tampered with my place, and here I have seen the attitude towards my citizens and citizens. However, we have a two-passenger and a traffic lighted intersection just 8 kilometers away, only 30 kilometers away from a traffic-flighted intersection and a circle that is in the Ljubljana ranking. With 1. 7. we enter the European Union, free movement of goods and services. So we can have a safe ride for the new drivers. And what's even more interesting about this whole thing is the cost. A young driver will have to drive to Koper or Postojna. Let us give additional costs to rural and rural parents. Thank you very much for your kindness to my citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u279	You didn't tell me how you were going to vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure in the framework of the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2013 We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5. Let me remind you, if this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 8, 27, 28, 30, 32, 33, 34 and 37 become irrelevant. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u280	Thank you very much. As you have rightly found, most of the amendments you have listed really relate to the same thing and are related. It is a question of whether we will still be writing classical records in court, as is the case, or whether we will be using all the technique that modern times offer. With the amendments before you, it would be good to support them, not to stipulate that only recording is always used for all those critical cases where the public is excluded, nor is it, but in principle, that the courts use modern technical devices and no longer dictate records. You yourself know how the main proceedings are conducted, at least those who have ever participated in such or otherwise in the courts. About half the time of the main hearing is about directing the minutes. This would no longer be necessary by adopting these amendments. Another issue that these amendments regulate is the so-called recording or public broadcast of the main proceedings. All we're talking about is the possibility and not the possibility that it will be. There are also exceptions and that would be good for us to accept. We have talked a lot about money throughout today, and I don't know what acceptance of these amendments would be a lot of savings. Let me remind you once again of what I did to you yesterday, that we pay Slovenian citizens almost €90 per capita for the work of one judge or for the work of courts, the justice system, while the European Union pays more than once less on average. Europeans pay €41.7 and Slovenians pay €89. If this profession, which you so advocated yesterday and on the committee, were willing to do something, you could probably lower these costs, so I suggest you support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u281	Thank you very much. On behalf of Positive Slovenia, Mrs Maša Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u282	Thank you very much. The problems of Slovenian justice are complex, but they are not the subject of this vote. Here we only vote on the proposed amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Let me say that only with these amendments has the Slovenian Democratic Party repeated what has already been rejected in the second reading of this law by Members, namely the inadvertent inclusion of some institutions in this amendment of the law, in particular the visual and vocal recording. In the first reading, the decisions were unanimously rejected by the professional public, both the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Council of State, which agreed. They all thoroughly justified why solutions are unconscionable, reckless and have no overstated financial effects. On the contrary, they believe that the financial effects of such unresolved solutions would be very large and therefore propose to remain on the current proposal for the implementation of some pilot projects, which will then show which solutions are truly true and effective. Such ad hoc solutions, which have been included in this law over coalition coordination and through consensus with the professional public, do the opposite, prolong criminal proceedings, make the functioning of justice more difficult and less effective. Therefore, Positive Slovenia once again rejects, as the rest of the coalition has done, these solutions and we will vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u283	Thank you very much. We are moving to a vote on the amendment tabled to Article 5. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 45. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5 has not been adopted, the amendments of the SDS Group shall become irrelevant to Articles 8, 27, 28, 30, 32, 33, 34 and 37. We turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 39, tabled by the DeSUS, DL, PS and SD groups. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 5. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment to Article 39. The professional services have reminded me that we also have an amendment to Article 29 tabled by the SDS Group. We now decide on the amendment to Article 29. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph, Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following decision: Proposal for a law for a third reading by the Government. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. On the agenda, this is a proposal for an act on the additions of the act on the notification of succession to the United Nations Conventions and Conventions adopted by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The draft act was tabled by the Government. The draft act was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an act. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the act has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a confirmation of the official cleansing of the legislation on the protection of animals. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Animal Protection Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The proposal was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Dr Jožef Kunič as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors. On the basis of Article 151 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 8(3) of the Court of Auditors Act of 10 April 2013, Mr Borut Pahor proposed that Mr Tomaž Vesel be appointed President of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Court of Auditors Act, a member of the Court of Auditors shall be appointed for a period of 9 years from the date on which he takes office. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Natashi Kovac, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. Well, hello and welcome!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u284	Honourable leadership of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! May I begin by sincerely thanking everyone, on behalf of the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, for their successful participation so far in the selection and election of candidates for important state duties. The current practice of sincere cooperation and consultation between the Office and the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, increasing transparency of procedures and thus allowing broad support for professionally competent candidates for the management of bearer state institutions has shown that, irrespective of other legitimate differences, we are able and willing with a large majority to take important decisions together for the country and for the effective and smooth work of its core institutions. Otherwise, we could find ourselves in a situation where we face a major institutional deficit problem. That's what we've been avoiding. This is, in the opinion of the President of the Republic, an important message for both the domestic and the general public. In all of the past, there is one important decision before you today, the decision on the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the management of the highest authority for the control of all public consumption in the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic proposes that the National Assembly appoint Mr Tomaž Vesel, President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, a university-graduate lawyer, the Supreme State Auditor at the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Tomaže Vesel is an extremely good expert in the field of the Court of Auditors. Among other things, she served as First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors until February this year. With his work so far, he has demonstrated a high level of expertise and commitment to the proposed function. In particular, mention should be made of its role in establishing the area of auditing of public contracts and concessions and other comparable institutes in the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, its excellent knowledge of the field of public procurement, concessions, procedures for managing the real and financial assets of the public sector, state aid, European Union law and working methods of the Supreme Audit Institute. In recent years, he has published a series of articles on professional topics relevant to the exercise of the audit powers of the Court of Auditors. Work published and other numerous contributions from this field of public procurement are an important contribution not only to this but also to other areas of law. The research on what Mr Vesel is dealing with has a prominent European component. As an expert in this field, he is working with some international organisations of the OECD, the OSCE, as well as working as an external expert of the OECD to prepare reports and implement external assistance in countries of the former Yugoslavia. He is the project manager and external expert in several twinning projects in the field of public procurement and state audit. At the time of his candidacy, Mr Vese presented a comprehensive programme of measures to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the Court of Auditors' work, with which you have also been briefed by Members and Members. It indicated its view on the further development of this institution, from the establishment of a strategic plan for the next period, the priority areas for auditing, the optimization of the staff composition of the Court of Auditors, the development of new types of audits, the need to increase the advisory and preventive role of the Court of Auditors and any necessary amendments to the Court of Auditors Act. In the opinion of the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor, it is appropriate and sufficient to ensure that the proposed candidate will carry out his or her work conscientiously and professionally and contribute to the necessary further confidence in the work of the Court of Auditors and its audit findings and opinions. The President of the Republic is convinced that Mr Tomaž Rade deserves your trust and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mrs. Natasha Kovac. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Social Democrats' Group of Members and Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary-General, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, before the National Assembly, there is another series of important decisions. We will decide who will lead the next nine years, which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, has the position of an independent but at the same time the highest state authority to control state accounts, the state budget and, in general, all public spending. In the light of this, it is so important that the decision of the National Assembly is about trust, which I hope will be expressed in support of the candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Tomaž Vesela. During the election process for the President of the Court of Auditors, we have taken the view that the constitutional position of the Court of Auditors requires a great deal of expertise, experience and also appropriate personal competence. In our parliamentary group, the Group of Social Democrats, during the presentation of candidate Tomaž Vesel and also candidate Natasha Prah, we convinced ourselves that both of them have all this. That is why we took the view at the time that no candidate or candidate will be given any further support, but we will wait for the decision of the President of the Republic of Borut Pahor. We respect his decision to propose Tomaž Vese to the President of the Court of Auditors. At the same time, we are pleased that Mr Happy has broad support both between the left and the right political option. It is right that policy manages such an important body to unify itself to such an extent that it does not come to light when it appoints a sense of political supremacy or a party’s appetites. I therefore see the role of the National Assembly in this process not only as a direct decision, but also as an important representation of the functioning of the policy as not only being able to overcome potential own interests, but also being able to unify it in the view that the expertise is what we must give right in deciding on the President of the Court of Auditors. I think that this is also a good signal to the general public, which often feels that the politicisation of institutions is between the main obstacles of the rule of law and, above all, an effective state. As I have already said, we respect the decision of the President of the Republic to propose Tomaž Vesel as a candidate for the National Assembly. The priorities of the Court of Auditors, as Mr Vese presented them to us in the parliamentary group, give us in some way the hope that the proposed candidate will do his job well. In particular, we see all those areas of operation of the Court of Auditors which may have proved to be flawed as an opportunity for Tomaž Vesel to have his vision and, above all, with knowledge of the work of the Court of Auditors, whose first deputy has been an upgrade since 2004, as well. As a result of all this, the Group of Social Democrats will support Mr Tomaž Vesel as President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette and Mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary-General, colleague and colleague, welcome! In the Civil Gazette, we will support the current Supreme State Auditor, Mr Tomaž Vesel, as President of the Court of Auditors. Ten-year work experience in various areas within the Court of Auditors gives a good passenger for successful work in the most responsible job within this institution. The Court of Auditors is the highest authority for the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure in Slovenia. By its operation and mission, it can thus make an important contribution to the responsibility of state authorities, holders of public powers and thus affect the well-being of all the people of our country. Mr Tomaž Vele convinced us by presenting a programme of measures to improve the efficiency of the Court of Auditors. After the presentation in our Group, we are confident that Mr Happy will play a more advisory and preventive role in the functioning of the Court of Auditors and will be able to strike a balance between the innovative and expected conservative working methods. Above all, we hope in the National Gazette that the Court of Auditors, led by Mr Tomaž Vesell, will begin to be on the path of public money also in those institutions in the past that have rarely, or even never, entered, the auditors of the Court of Auditors. Here I have in mind a number of public companies and too many congregations. It is worth noting that any tax-paying euro must be spent with a view to making it transparent and transparent can significantly help to strengthen the Court's institution. And in doing so, we wish Mr Vese a successful job in the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u290	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party, we listened with great interest to the presentation of candidates for the new President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the highest body of State budget control and total public spending in the Republic of Slovenia. It is certainly one of the most important national institutions, which informs not only the auditors but also the public about its findings and the results of the audits. The leadership of this institution will be taken over by the new President for a period of nine years, which increases the responsibility of both the President of the State who proposes to appoint the President as well as the responsibility of the National Assembly. Mr Tomaž Vese, proposed by the President of the State for this function, has already demonstrated by his work so far that he is in favour of responsible state functions. Its references, both the membership of the State Audit Board and the current function of the Supreme State Auditor and the longtime Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, shall demonstrate an experienced and competent candidate who will be able to upgrade the professional work of the management and the entire team of the Court of Auditors. In his presentation, we paid particular attention to his proposals to improve the functioning of the Court of Auditors. We have listened in particular to proposals to strengthen the preventive role and, in particular, to increase the advisory role of this institution, in particular in the preparation and adoption of regulations by providing opinions on the appropriateness of legislative and other amendments. As the candidate himself points out, he wants the Court of Auditors to become a partner of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the design of professional solutions mainly in the field of public finances. We also support the candidates' proposal to set up an advisory body for the Court of Auditors, composed of recognised public finance experts and representatives of civil society. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Court of Auditors, in particular the transfer of powers from one individual, namely the President, to the three-member Chamber and thus to the College's decision on the more important decisions of the Court of Auditors, also make sense to us. It is also more than justified to extend the definition of users of public funds, which would also allow for the revision of certain institutions and companies where the Court of Auditors has so far been unable to verify the use of public funds, such as that of Mobilell as a subsidiary of Telekom. On the basis of such proposals, which also lead to greater efficiency in the functioning of the Court of Auditors, we have decided in the Slovenian People's Party to follow the proposal of the President of the State and to unanimously support candidate Tomaž Vesel as President of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u292	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Nice greeting to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, distinguished colleague and colleague! At the beginning of the proceedings, there were three candidates for the President of the Court of Auditors: Mr Soltes, Mr Vesel and Mrs Prah. The President of the Republic shall [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u293	There's a problem. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u294	Now I've got a lot of nervousness.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u295	Keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On the basis of an interview with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic decided to propose Mr Tomaž Vesel to the National Assembly. Mr Tomaž Vese, candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors, received the unanimous support of the members at yesterday's meeting of the Parliament's Committee on Elections, which we are very pleased with in the Group of Members. In his presentation to our Group of Members, Mr Vese also convinced the members of our Group that he was suitable for the President of the Court of Auditors. Mrs Prah also had a good presentation. In his presentation, he presented a comprehensive programme of measures to increase the efficiency of the Court of Auditors. The programme highlighted the priority area of the work of the Court of Auditors, the optimisation of work and the necessary amendments to the Law on the Court of Auditors. According to our assessment, in his work so far as the Supreme State Auditor since 2004, as well as the first Deputy President of the Court of Auditors since this year, he has shown credibility and a good knowledge of the field of auditing of public procurement and concessions. The Group will support the decision of the Mandate-Making Commission that the National Assembly for the President of the Court of Auditors appoints Mr Tomaž Vesel. I would like to congratulate Mr Tomaž Vesel on behalf of the Group of Members, and I wish him to do his work successfully, well and professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u297	Thank you very much. We are moving to the position of the New Slovenia Group. He'll be represented by a mag. Matthew Tonin. Dear colleagues, I respectfully ask you to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u298	Dear colleagues, I can see that some of you are already very tired all day long and that in some ways you are going to listen hard with your ears. For this reason, I will not bore you with our long position, but I would like to point out only three essential things why in the New Slovenia Group we have decided to support Mr Vesel as the new President of the Court of Auditors. One of the things he said was that he would focus only on the essential things that the Court of Auditors was supposed to do so as not to burn up in trivial matters. The other thing is that he promised to optimize the work of the Court of Auditors. And the last, third thing he also promised to go into the reform of the Law of the Court of Auditors. These were the three main things that brought Mr Tomaž Joy our support. I hope I didn't waste too much of your precious time. Good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u299	Thank you very much. We are moving to the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, which will be presented by Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u300	Hello! At the very beginning, we had three candidates, and at the very beginning the three of us were surprised by the fact that it had turned into two, and I must say that both Mrs Prahova and Mr Vese showed at the very presentation of the highly professional competence and knowledge of the matter that they decided to run and to lead it for the next nine years. The President of the State has decided, he has proposed a candidate for Mr Vesel. I believe that today, in the National Assembly, there will be sufficient support for him to be able to perform this function, but above all I want him to exercise the part he predicted, I believe, even in other parliamentary groups, which is that the Court of Auditors primarily performs its primary, primary function, which is to control the use of public finances, and what is most important is that everything happens within the framework of legality and that it reduces the role, above all, in the work that it works very carefully and prudently. In Positive Slovenia, we will support Mr Vesel and each Member will decide individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have before us a decision on a position, one of two which has a nine-year term, stressing that candidate Tomaž Vese has already completed one such term as the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. It is the management of an important institution which monitors the correctness, prudence or effectiveness of public spending, the operation of certain state-owned companies and revises the business of political parties. However, some powers are further transferred by the laws we have in the process. For all independent supervisory institutions, including the Court of Auditors, it is very important that they do their work properly, that they measure all matters with the same vat and that they do not cast doubts into the public opinion that they operate and that they formulate opinions following the so-called political preferences or the auditor or auditor. Given that the Court of Auditors carries out audits which in one way or another affect the political system, it is reasonable to expect that the findings and proposed or expressed measures will be proportionate to the findings made in accordance with the Law on the Court of Auditors and that the Court of Auditors and other independent institutions should avoid practices that suggest that their work and decisions are subordinated to daily policies or to political preferences. They may not or may not determine in the audit procedures and the weight of the opinions depends on the political likeness or personal attitude of the auditor or the institution of the function of the audited legal person. Institutions such as the Court of Auditors have a great deal of public weight and not only should they not, but they should not be used for political accounts. For example, we have instances where the proposal by the Court of Auditors for the discharge of Minister Podobnik shook the first Janša government when the proposal for the discharge of Minister Erjavac started with the demolition of the Pahorje government or, for example, in the report of another institution, for example, the anti-corruption commission, which reported alleged irregularities in President Janša's statement of assets, triggered even the fall of the Janša government with all the consequences that have arisen and are not simple and cheap. The duality of political actors was not lacking at the time of the fall of the Janša government, nor at the time of the establishment of the new government, nor at the time when the new government with the inexperienced president and ministers is hunting and trying something for which it does not have enough feelings and perhaps something else is missing. Even in the case of audits by political parties, it is known when the actual problems and errors in the business of the parties and when the cost of media accounting can only be continued or added or the extension of such activities by other institutions. Such a feeling arises when corrections or additions are required, which were appropriate and appropriate decades ago, even for an institution that exercises control, even if nothing has changed in the meantime, not in the field of law and not in the law. The President of the Court of Auditors, Tomaž Vese, is certainly well aware of the content and manner of work of the Court of Auditors. He probably doesn't have any secrets, he doesn't need any introductions. However, we expect him to implement all the positive principles and proposals he has presented to us at the meeting with our Members. We therefore expect him to keep his word because he will get our votes for it, and we hope that after the vote of Vesel we will not be sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u303	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the proposal to appoint the President of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors appointing the National Assembly, it shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the chairmen and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Chair. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are: mag. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Zvonko Lah, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Branko Kurnjek, Parliamentary Group of the National List, Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? I don't see any objection. We are moving on to a decision on such a composition of the Commission. Let me also say that, in view of the broad vote today, we will also see one amendment, namely that the electronic voting apparatus does not work and we will vote by raising the deadlines in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 82 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We're voting. Who's in? Please, if we hold hands a little longer so our associates can count. Who's against if he can raise his hand if he's against it? There are 56 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Since the voting device also allows quorum or restraint, is there anyone who is abstinence? No, no, no. I note that the Commission is among the 56 Members present and the 56-vote members appointed or elected in the proposed composition. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Chamber shall be served to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or the word "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of all Members vote for him, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will start in 10 minutes or 5 minutes at 20.05 and will last until 20.20. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 20.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u304	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We're continuing our session. We continue with the adjournment of the proposal for the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors: The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 24 April 2013. 70 ballots were distributed, 70 votes were cast, 3 votes were invalid, 67 votes were valid. The 62 members voted against the 5 members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Tomaž Vese was appointed President of the Court of Auditors by a majority of the votes of all Members. I ask Mr Tomaž Vesel, future President of the Court of Auditors, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u305	I swear to do my work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, fairly, conscientiously and impartially. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-24-SDZ6-Redna-13.ana.u306	To the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Tomaž Vesel, I congratulate him on his election and wish him much success in his duties. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 13th meeting of the National Assembly.
