ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Irena Tavčar, mag. Melita Župevc, Mr Aloise Potočnik, Mr Brane Golubovic and Mr Borut Ambrožič. I invite the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, to the first item and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 50th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 6 December 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of items from the sitting or for the extension of the agenda of the meeting, so I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be set the agenda as you have received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Before we decide, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Can we vote on the agenda? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 50th Extraordinary Session has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day agenda, this is on the defence of the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the Minister for the internal affairs of Dr. Gregory Virant. The Interpellation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 37 Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Matthew Tonin for further explanation of the interpolation Please? [[...]] Procedural? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Today, the government has informed the Slovenian public of the results of the stress tests and the necessary investments to be made in our banking system. I think that it would be necessary for us to have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly first, where Members of Parliament would be given this presentation and to hold a debate on this issue. I do not think it is appropriate for the Government to first get to know the Slovenian media, these Slovenian public, but we are Members of this political system, which no one really takes into account and we must not know anything about this problem. We have discussed the problems of the banking system several times in the National Assembly, even in recent months. No one has ever explained anything concrete, nor has he brought any number, no proposal, before the MPs of the National Assembly. Today, many problems have been presented to the Slovenian public with all the great depth created in the Slovenian banks and Members of the National Assembly know nothing about this. The government has had a lot of time, since we have not yet received any concrete and, above all, undiscovered information on what is happening in our banking system, which has led to a series of procedures both to the European Union, both to the banking system and to the banking sector with the Bank of Slovenia. I propose that you, as President of the National Assembly, ensure that, as soon as possible today, we will have an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, where the Government will present to us the problems that it has faced and which have been flooded by stress tests, move forward the proposals for measures and, of course, that we have the opportunity to finally hold this debate in the National Assembly. Journalists have had the opportunity to ask both the Minister of Finance and the Governor, and we cannot ask members of the National Assembly. No one because there's no government representative who can answer these questions. Therefore, I propose, Mr President, that since the whole government is here to hold this meeting, you ensure that the request is submitted, we will also give our signatures, but of course we also want to participate in the debate on this. I hope that this is the minimum that can be done for Slovenian public finances at this black point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u3	Thank you, too, and only for further clarification. I postponed the session for 20 minutes just because the members of the College discussed this in an informal consultation, so I am surprised by this proposal. Of course, if a request for an extraordinary meeting is made, we will arrange for the work of the National Assembly to do so. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the next procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. What the leader of the biggest opposition party has now afforded again is extremely unfair and unrealistic. Exactly what you said, President of the National Assembly, which is why we have now had 20 minutes of coordination between the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary groups and the opposition on this issue. The fact is that the Government has no problem presenting the measures and this has been said more than clearly at the meeting of the presidents of both the coalition and the opposition, and they have all agreed to support such an extraordinary meeting. However, since you are one of the great supporters of this Rules of Procedure, you know that this is practical – and we have also told you at the College of the President of the National Assembly – physically impossible. We have before us the interpolation requested by you, and you demand that today, you demand that an extraordinary meeting is not only an introduction, but a discussion, and you know that it cannot happen until we have a hearing on the working body. At the same time, I also asked if you are willing to make this call for an extraordinary session, so that we will all call together, both the opposition and the coalition. That is why I also made it very clear, out loud, that we have the opportunity to do this either today after ten o'clock, or today during the interrupted extraordinary session of the interpretation itself, or we have the opportunity to do it tomorrow, because it is likely that after this timing of interpolation will not be over today and we can do it again tomorrow either after the adjourned session or after the adjourned extraordinary meeting, which means at two o'clock in the morning. It's all workable. Of course, there must be another prerequisite, a mother's working body must meet, consider, propose conclusions if we are going to have a debate and not just an introduction, and at the same time it must happen that you must have a minister of finance, which I do not see right now, and the governor of the bank also has time to reconcile it with them, because I hope we will not talk to each other. So don't suggest non-life things that don't go. I therefore propose that, even in the future, the President, when you see that the leader of the largest opposition group proposes inconclusive, lifeless proposals to explain what we have been talking about, because people do not know and think we want to avoid getting acquainted. Far from it, what the hell are we interested in?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr. Han, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u6	President, first of all, I propose that you no longer put such procedural proposals to the vote. I believe in the pain of the SDS Group for two reasons. The first is that stress tests have shown that the financial hole in this Slovenia is manageable and that it is not 9.8 billion holes as predicted. That's the second bad grade of SDS. First, the report of the European Commission, and now this matter, and I believe that it hurts and that it is difficult to endure, but we will do so. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the public, we are sitting in the National Assembly for two days not because of this government, but because of the SDS. Yesterday we talked for 10 hours about SDH, the sale of property, and so on — without need, if you ask me — because of them. Today we will talk for 16 hours about Mr Virant and the interpretation. Take away the interpellation, we vote for Virant, because Virant will not fall today anyway, because we, the coalition, will defend him, but we will listen to 16 hours of your attacks, how you did not like yourself in these years. As far as we, the Social Democrats, are concerned, we can familiarise ourselves with these stressful tests, we can interrupt the meeting or the meeting on the interpretation of Mr Virant, we will get to know and the matter is resolved. If you show some good faith, we can do it all today. But if the pain is too much, then we don't have a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u7	Thank you. Look, I propose that we really conclude with procedural proposals, because what we are now listening to is a summary of the discussions we have had over these 20 minutes on whether or not a presentation is being carried out under Rule 239 of the Rules of Procedure, and we are waiting for this moment. Next, to clarify, the Government's proposal to present a stress test report in accordance with Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure. That's the first condition. The second condition is that we get a request to convene an extraordinary meeting so that we can do so. The rest of what we are talking about right now is with these procedural proposals a waste of time in this session, which is convened and we have just begun. Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At 2 p.m. an additional briefing was called for journalists on the effects of stress tests and the findings of the situation in the Slovenian banking system. So the press already had a press conference. At 2 p.m., an additional briefing is prepared for them, but we are deciding on the budgets that we are deciding that you have given the Government an unlimited mandate to interfere with the banking system, and we do not deserve this. This is prevented by a government coalition. The government is completely unprepared. She knew what was going to happen, and she did not submit any material to the National Assembly about the biggest banking problem right now, about the country's biggest problem right now. This isn't about some marginal thing and some minimal thing, but it's a key problem. And if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is unable to submit any documents to the National Assembly, there is no proposal to discuss this, then there is something very wrong with coordinating the work of the current government. Mr President, this debate simply needs to happen in the National Assembly and practically immediately; immediately because everything else is attracted to the hair. The meeting of the National Assembly, this, today, has been convened by the coalition Members – on your request – and the 15-day deadline, Mr Möderndorfer, has not yet passed. It won't be another week. This meeting, which is today convened as an extraordinary session, can be held later in business time and I suggest that we do so in order for the Government, who sits here and smiles nicely, to come up with a speaker, to say the problem and to present problems, as well as with the journalists, and to allow members of the National Assembly to discuss it, and also to ask why in this part of the National Assembly the call is so difficult to answer and let anyone at all ask? We had here a visit by the German President of Parliament in the previous reference – we could ask him, here, about the speaker without problem, and we cannot ask our government anything, we must ask nothing. I propose, Mr President, that you do your utmost to obtain, as soon as possible today, all the relevant materials dealt with by the Government in an open or confidential manner, whatever, and that this be done by the Government's presentation and debate on this. We can't put our heads in the sand with such a big problem. 2,000 euros per citizen and we cannot hold a debate. However, you put the state budget decision to a vote. I suggest you do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u9	Thank you. Once again, I really want to clarify that we are expecting a notification from the Government that it wishes to present the results of the stress tests and that this will also come to the National Assembly in accordance with today's discussion. The 239. Article of the Rules of Procedure is the one that allows us to hear this presentation today in the National Assembly, as long as a request for an extraordinary meeting is made. If we want to hold a debate, as you suggest, Mr Tanko, you know that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to first convene a mother's working body to address this material and when the mother's working body is finished, I can convene an extraordinary meeting. This, I hope, is extremely difficult for all of us today, and when we receive the documents in the National Assembly, I will also inform you about how the results of the stress tests in the National Assembly will be communicated. But we expect, as I said, today's announcement that the government wants to do this in the National Assembly. Thanks for listening. We're moving on to one. It's a day's work. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Matthew Tonin for further explanation of interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u10	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, a respected government! Today is the black Thursday; the day when a huge bank hole is discovered, and the day when you predict the mistaken support of Minister Virant's failed policy. Just one month ago, on 12 November in particular, we submitted an intervention against Interior Minister Gregor Virant by Members of the Nova Slovenija-Christian Democrats, the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Slovenian People's Party and unrelated Member Ivan Simčič. We would like to point out to the Minister that it is threatening coherent regional development, that it is re-employing in public administration and discriminating public servants in terms of membership in trade unions and that it is unfair to deal with the issue of the deleted. The Minister of Virant responded to the obvious interpretation with some indication that this "throwing is full under the feet". We certainly did not expect such a response from a liberal Democrat, as he is probably also aware that interpellation is just one of the democratic tools for dealing with concepts differently. He probably also understands the role played by the opposition in this House, drawing attention to the wrong decisions made by the government and proposing improvements. And what, as the opposition, remains at our disposal if we do not agree with the government's policy? We have the opportunity to vote against, if things are a little more problematic, we can also obstruct the vote and not take part in the vote, but if things are even more problematic, we propose an interpretation for the discharge of the Minister. And that's exactly what we did. We would like to draw attention to Minister Virant's website by interpellation to give you, my fellow Members and members of the coalition, to overlook and finally to find that Minister Virant is threatening coherent regional development with his policy, so that he does not diminish public administration, as he promised it would, and that he does not properly address the issue of deleted. However, I hope you are also concerned that if you support Minister Virant today, you will also take responsibility for his policy. Then we don't need any more excuses, if the Minister did it, and we want and we do it differently. If I first engage in the first set, which we read to the Minister, it is that it threatens coherent regional development. In a way, Slovenia has been shaken by Minister Virant's announcement this year that it intends to abolish more than a hundred Slovene municipalities, which is a good half of all Slovene municipalities. This raises the question of who Minister Virant wants to abolish. Are not those who are systematically concerned today that regional differences in Slovenia are shrinking and that Slovenia is becoming a more evenly developed country? Like, it's easy to talk about, it's easy to talk about numbers. The numbers bear many things, but it may be right that this Parliament is also faced with some concrete case that Minister Virant's policy may cause. That is, if we look at the case of the Municipality of Destrnik, what it means to abolish a municipality that has more than 2 000 600 inhabitants and which was formed more than 10 years ago. To make it easier to imagine what these small municipalities, which Minister Virant wants to abolish, are doing on the ground, you must first leave the offices, from Ljubljana to the field and look at what individual municipalities are doing on the spot. Surely a small congregation like the congregation of Destrnik would not have achieved such a development without independence. And if you look at the presentation that we have prepared for you, you can see, say, what small congregations do. Important cultural monuments, which would have failed in one way or another, are being restored and thus contribute significantly to the development of Slovenian tourism. Last but not least, if you look at, say, one sports facility in the Municipality of Destrnik, something similar to what is perfectly normal for the city’s municipalities, many rural municipalities are just dreams. If we did not have these small congregations that do such things, then the countryside, too, would not have such sports facilities to deal with. It is necessary to ask and refresh the memory of why these small congregations were formed. The answer is very simple: because large centers have forgotten distant and rural areas and have for many years neglected them. Let's just say I'm a little more plastic, I'm going to mention Minister Virant's domestic case, this is the case of the great Domžale Congregation. This congregation was also divided into several small congregations: Lukovica, Moravče, Trzin, Mengeš, and so on. Why were these congregations formed? Because it's the center, the center forgot about these remote places. Go and ask the people in Moravča, Lukovica, what they think about the once united congregation, and you will get very clear answers. We are wondering why the Minister is abolishing one of the few institutions that is still concerned about development today and why we should abolish something that shows that it works well today. The following is forgotten in the wake of the uproar in the abolition of the congregations. Even if we abolish these one hundred congregations, someone will still have to care for the places covered by these congregations today. And who, who will take care of these places and those areas again? Minister Virant wants those who have been forgotten years ago and who have created new congregations to return. Therefore, we are convinced that the abolition of almost half of Slovenian municipalities would lead to a new centralisation and a renewed increase in differences between parts of Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, for all the reasons given for the existence of smaller congregations, I also ask you how you will eliminate something that has arisen on the basis of the referendum will of the people. As a liberal Democrat, you must most likely have the will of the people in the first place. I am aware that you will refer to a number of public surveys carried out on the basis of the question whether people are in favour of reducing the number of municipalities. The answer is yes. But when you ask them if they are in favor of abolishing their congregation, the answer, of course: no. What do such research tell us? That people want more effective municipalities, they want more effective local self-government, which means fewer administrations, less corruption and better performance of the tasks of the municipalities. Or can this really be accomplished by abolishing the congregations? Our opinion is, of course, no. And we will explain this further. Do small congregations really create such a burden in the country? According to the Court of Auditors, in 2010 the municipalities allocated a total of some EUR 288 million for their own operations. 288 million euros have been spent on the work of the congregations! This is almost a third of the money the country will spend on the rehabilitation of two small private banks, or this is enormously less than the country will have to find a huge bank hole for today. If there are some 10 euros of meetings received by the saints for their work, then we have really come a long way. The financial savings in the abolished municipality would be negligible and the price that Slovenia would pay by abolishing local democracy and more coherent regional development would be enormous. One of the reasons, one of the adjectives that also occurs for the abolition of smaller municipalities, is that corruption is constantly taking place in smaller municipalities. But if you check this thesis empirically, it just doesn't hold, because big corruption stuff happens where there's a lot of money, and that's in big city halls. In small congregations, however, people know each other very well, know the congregation closely, know exactly what and how the congregation invests, and what happens to their money. The third argument or one of the arguments that the Minister also states that half of Slovenian municipalities should be abolished is that they do not carry out their tasks well. However, the Minister forgets that one of the reasons for some difficulty in carrying out these tasks is that the country has been transferring tasks and obligations to the municipalities over a number of years, not money and people. And that's the key reason why this observation is unfounded. Minister Virant says he would like to have a local administration that will have fewer employees, less corruption and better perform the tasks. And once again, there is no way to achieve these goals by abolishing smaller municipalities, but by other tools. Not to say that the opposition is only criticising, we will also offer Minister Virant some solutions to how he can achieve the same financial effects, but in a different way. We invite the Minister to adopt a law introducing mandatory municipal administrations. What does that mean? And I'm going to give again the case of the Domžale Congregation. Now a number of municipalities have been formed from the municipality of Domžale, each having its own municipal administration, each of its mayors, each of its own municipal councils. Our proposal, however, goes this way for all these municipalities to have a joint municipal administration, but still their mayor and their municipal council. What would that accomplish? This would achieve a number of synergistic effects in the functioning of the municipal administration, the municipal administration could shrink and, most importantly, keep this degree of local democracy, so that people in their area could still decide where the money would go. Finally, the reason that some tasks are poorly carried out is merely an additional reason to establish the provinces and not to abolish the smaller congregations. However, when establishing the provinces, major municipal administrations should also be reorganised, administrative units should be reorganised and some of these officials should be transferred to the provinces. And not to say that these things are spoken only by the opposition, you can also read expert opinions. Many Slovenian experts have said that such a way of reforming local self-government as Minister Virant intends to do is not appropriate. It is definitely not appropriate to authoritarianly abolish Slovenian municipalities and propose the introduction of provinces, greater inter-ethnic cooperation and strengthening local democracy. And that is exactly what the opposition is proposing to the Minister! The strengthening of local democracy is achieved by continuing to preserve mayors and municipal councils, and greater inter-agency cooperation is achieved by introducing mandatory community administrations and the provinces have already been said enough. The abolition of municipalities such as Minister Virant would certainly increase regional differences in Slovenia and reduce democracy. Today, the municipalities are the source and driving force of tourism, and if we stop those elements, even those institutions that are concerned today that cultural monuments do not fail so that tourists can be brought to tourist centers along regulated roads, then we shot ourselves in the knee. Therefore, a well-respected coalition, with a strong 'no' to the ministers of the abolition policy of the municipalities today, will give you the opportunity to further develop evenly all parts of Slovenia. That was the first of my visions. I would now like to touch on another segment of the readings concerning the Minister's new employment in public administration and discrimination against public servants in relation to the membership of the union. Let me remind you, all of us sitting in this Chamber, especially the Minister, the 2011 election hearings. I have very much in mind Minister Virant's statement, which said: "I advocate that the Slovenian public administration be reduced by half, by 50 per cent." And during the 2011 election campaign, Minister Virant gave the impression that the Slovenian public administration is too large and that something needs to be done in this area. He also talked about the fact that we can afford only the kind of public administration we can afford. I will also recall the statement when he defined what public servants we know: "We know the garages, those who really work hard and well in this public administration. We know those who are harmless, do their 8 hours and then leave, but we also know those who cause great harm to this Slovenia." At that time, Minister Virant said that it was unfair for everyone to be paid the same; that those who do harm to Slovenia, as well as those who do good to Slovenia, were paid the same. Minister Virant, I would like to mention these words to show you or to ask you what has happened since 2011 that you have changed your mind so much in this area. All of us, even in the opposition, want a public administration where there will be no uniformed garages and sloths. We want a public administration that will be highly efficient and good service to citizens. With all these facts, I wonder once again how it is possible that the Minister, who has made so many promises in the area of public administration regulation, has agreed to new employment in public administration. How is it possible that the Minister, who advocated a reduction in the number of public servants, has agreed to additional employment in public administration? The stats are all well enough to admit. The natural outflow of employees in public administration somehow amounts to about 3 per cent annually due to retirement and other departures. But do you know what Minister Virant has agreed to? That the public administration can only be reduced by 1 per cent per year, which in fact means that there will be new employment in the public administration. This fact is even more unacceptable because if you look at, for example, the development of the Slovenian public administration in the last 20 years – you still have some graphs on the screen where you can look more closely – but only for the feeling of, say, 1991, when we started the independent state, there were 9 thousand 700 employees in the state administration. More than 20 years later, in 2013, 31 000 civil servants were employed in this government administration, so the state administration increased by 20,000 civil servants. If the public sector, the state sector, looks even more broadly, then we find that Slovenia had more than 160,000 civil servants in the beginning, in 1991, 120 thousand public servants, today have more than 160,000 civil servants. So in the twenty years we have re-employed over 40,000 civil servants, in the fact that technology has also changed and that technology is making things much easier and easier today. During the economic and social crisis, that is, since 2008, 93 000 jobs have been lost in the economy, according to Bisnoda. At the same time, 3 000 200 public servants were created or newly employed in the public sector, or if we compare the data of the Chamber of Commerce, if you trust the Chamber of Commerce more, Slovenia lost some more than 71 000 jobs in the economy from 2008 until last year, while the public sector increased slightly by less than 6 000 new employees. It is most likely clear to us all that these trends are unsustainable in the long term and are taking us to the bankruptcy of Slovenia. Therefore, in 2012 our government began to drastically reduce the mass of public sector wages. Let me remind you that in 2012, we reduced the volume of wages or salaries in the public sector by 8%, then continued and anticipated an additional decrease of 6.5% on average in the 2013 budget. Therefore, we have foreseen an additional reduction in the mass for salaries in 2013 for the public sector of 288 million. This has already been regulated or covered by the effects of the so - called famous ZUJF. This meant a reduction of €130 million and an additional increase of 158 million had to be found or reduced. Here comes an important difference: in the time of our government, we have proposed the next mechanism for these wages, namely, we have instructed the heads of departments and institutions to determine and decide for themselves how they will reduce the amount of wages. This seemed reasonable to us because it is the heads of individual departments and institutions who know where the reserves are, where there is something else to reduce, and because they know exactly who is working in their department and who is causing damage. But the minister decided on a different concept. He said that I would not leave it to the department heads, but he went into negotiations with the unions alone and in some way agreed to reduce the amount of wages, but he had to agree to certain harmful concessions. So, the Minister of Negotiating Achievements in Response is showing great success, but I see no success here, because this reduction in wages should be achieved by the leaders, but it is now done by Minister Virant instead of them and thus achieved a reduction in wages for all; both for those who are good and for those who are less good. As I have already said, he had to agree to two, the opposition, the unacceptable concession, which is that he has agreed to additional employment in the public sector and that he has consented to discrimination against public servants according to the membership of the union. With these two additions, the Minister has achieved that in some way everyone in the public sector has been "punished" in the same way; those who have worked hard, as well as those who have waited for the four hours to go home. It is unacceptable, however, that it has also agreed that union members have the right to 20 per cent of the larger jubilee awards and up to 20 per cent more solidarity aid. Of course, we do not report this bargaining achievement to the unions, because in the last period the unions have spoken, when we go, it is completely legitimate and legal. Absolutely! We don't refer to the unions, they're just negotiating well. It seems unacceptable, however, that such privileges have been granted by the minister. We all know that the way to solve the problems brought by Minister Virant is in the long term unrestrained, and that it merely translates the problems from today to tomorrow and that such a solution only further undermines employees and the public sector as such. Because the Minister will not say again that we have only criticized, but we have not made any proposals, and we are again proposing some initiatives in this point to the Minister. One of these is that it is absolutely necessary to adapt our public administration to our public financial capabilities – and the Minister has already talked about this and should not forget this now – that in some way the impact of public sector trade unions must be reduced because the state seems to be the constant hostage of these unions and the responsibility of the leaders of individual public sector institutions needs to be increased. As I have already said, Minister, we are convinced that your actions and your moves make the situation worse in the public sector and bring problems to the future, so once again we wish that this matter will be recognised and recognized by the coalition, and when it has the opportunity to vote on your destiny, we say "no" to such a policy. The third set of readings refers to the unfair handling of the issue deleted. Interpellators believe that the Compensation Act wrongly regulates damages to persons who have been erased from the Register of Permanent Populations, since all swords have been erased in the same basket. We must be aware that there are significant differences between deleted persons. Some have simply deferred status because they did not believe in Slovenia and some have failed to settle their status because of ignorance or other special circumstances. But under the law proposed by Minister Virant, 50 euros of compensation for each month will be deleted, irrespective of previous differences. And now, what's the key? Those who had failed to settle their status because of ignorance surely rushed to settle the status as soon as they acknowledged their error and arranged it in some way. This technically means, for example, that someone who has been deleted on 26 February 1992 and has settled this status in 1996 will be entitled to compensation only during this period, from 1992 to 1996. However, those who did not believe in Slovenia, who had not settled their status in time and with these things delayed, may even have gone south and participated in some Balkan war, and have not settled their status until 2010, and they will be entitled to compensation for each month from 1992 to 2010. And this is a key point that we read to the Minister and that is why we claim that the law wrongly regulates damages because it makes a significant difference between those who have quickly settled their status as those who have delayed it. And rewards those who delay it. If the minister had already anticipated flat-rate compensation, he might also have anticipated flat-rate compensation for all the same, regardless of when the status was settled; or within four years or 15 years. However, I must also make it very clear that there will be no mistake in the opposition not to respect the decision of the European Court of Justice and that we do not want injustice to be rectified. We fully respect the European Court of Justice's decision, and we also want injustices to be rectified, but not in the way of new injustices. The Minister was also able to see this desire in the debate on the law, where the opposition did not oppose the correction of the injustices, nor did it reject the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, but, as I said, opposed the way these injustices were corrected and the amount of compensation. According to the Ministry's assessment, the damages to the victims were estimated at around EUR 130 million, of course because they were not covered by a possible civil action, which means that these figures could increase further. In the opposition, we are convinced that the damages are too high. For this reason, I will state some cases of compensation which are based in Slovenian laws and which regulate compensation. For example, if you take the Law on Victims of War Violence, which stipulates that victims receive monthly amounts of the following for each month of violence. So: for campers, children stolen and prisoners there are 1.25 euros per month; for exiles, internees, forcible mobilizers there are just over 80 cents per month; and for a working deportee and fugitive there are just over half a euro per month. If we look at these damages, we can see that they are simply not comparable. Let me put another example here, namely the association of material damages to the invaders of World War II, which has been working for years on the settlement of material damage and with each government trying to strengthen dialogue, but not yet successful. According to data from Slovenian archives, more than 280 thousand private property damage claims have been filed since 1945 and the total war damage is estimated at 23 billion then dinars, which today amounts to around 1.7 billion euros. The former Yugoslavia has received from the aggressor countries a part of the war damage, in the form of reparations, grants, and indirectly in the form of favourable loans; but these victims are still waiting for and fighting for these damages today. In view of the fact that this law has also been repeatedly addressed with the promise that all the injustices that have occurred in Slovenia must be rectified – I therefore absolutely and totally agree, and I hope that all the injustices will be treated equally. Remembering the forced mobilization of the German army, not forgetting the material harm suffered in World War II, it is also necessary to recognize the right of the victims of war and post-war fighting to the right to burial and grave, and yet once again it is necessary to recognize and eliminate the injustice of all the disabled and all those who have given their health in the war for Slovenia. When dealing with injustices, let us first of all see that we are not causing new ones. Unfortunately, the law proposed by the minister creates new injustices. They are not satisfied with this law, not with the opposition, nor with anyone else. So, honourable Members and Members, in the Parliamentary Group New Slovenia-Christian Democrats, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, and in the non-aligned Member Ivan Simčič, we propose that, following a discussion, you support the decision to dismiss Minister Gregor Virant from the post of Minister for Home Affairs because he threatens coherent regional development because he is newly employed in public administration and discriminates against public servants in terms of union membership and because he unfairly regulates the issue of deleted persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u11	Thank you for further explanation of the interpolation. You received Dr. Gregor Virant's reply to the interview by letter dated 26. 11. 2013 Before I give the floor to the Minister for the explanation of the written reply, I give the floor to the President of the Government of Magi. Alenki Brother. Here you go, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u12	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Today is the day we've been waiting for 8 months, today is the day we've proved to you and shown that we know, and today is the day we've shown you that the only threesome in our country is going to be a home threesome. If it is to remain a sovereign country on Thursday, Mr Tonin, then I do not know what I can add to this. Today, on the initiative of SDS, SLS and NSI, we are sitting in the parliamentary benches for the second time due to the interpretation of the Minister of our Government. This just proves that the tool of interpretation represents opportunities for political accounts for you, and I believe that this time it will be no different. Let me tell you that we can and will respond to such manoeuvres with concrete achievements that are the product of the good work of our ministers. However, in preparation for the answer, I believe we have also made more efforts than you have put into preparing this time-travel interpolation, in which it is very obvious that you have prepared it for the interpretation of yourself and not for the poor work of the Minister. I cannot help but overlook the fact that this time you are taking a stand against the minister primarily on the basis of personal offenses that have been felt by your kind since Gregor Virant's resignation from your government. The president of the opposition SDS party remembers this at each of his public appearances. Interpellation can therefore only be aimed at destabilising the Government's efforts to prepare and implement reforms that will bring Slovenia out of stagnation and bring it back to the path of development. Minister Virant is in charge during the economic and financial crisis, which is not in the focus of attention, as is the financial and economic ministry, but still plays an important role in the fight against corruption and economic crime. With his work and effort, Minister Virant has demonstrated that, with appropriate and deliberate measures, he can also give his ministry the right weight during the economic crisis, with a sense of cooperation and political responsibility in making decisions, and plays an important role in government decision-making. Let me touch the readings from the interpolation that you wrote down for a moment. In the first part, you report to Minister Virant that the proposal to reduce the number of municipalities and change the funding of municipalities threatens the local self-government system. And this is based only on words, nothing has yet been accepted, nothing has yet been proposed, just a debate, to say the least – and the minister deserves to be interpelled. It seems, however, that the mayors of the opposition parties who are certainly putting pressure on your Members and Members feel threatened. Instead of resisting this pressure, the government or Minister Virant hears the obvious. You are of the opinion that the abolition of municipalities without the consent of the people is unacceptable. We never meant for that. Let me remind you of the results of the public opinion survey on the number of municipalities in Slovenia, which have clearly shown that almost 80 percent of those polled believe that there are too many municipalities in Slovenia. I wonder if the minister is really acting harmfully if he is trying to reduce the number of municipalities that are clearly too high. And I wonder if the Minister is really acting harmfully if he is trying to reduce the number of municipalities that are too high and, by the way, are being reduced in several European countries. In the second item of the Minister you read the signature of two trade union agreements. So you tell him he's trying to find a common language with the unions. For me, this certainly can't be the reason for the interpolation. Do you ever wonder how long the wrong decisions that were made without agreement with the unions and are being annulled by the court? We are talking about more than ten million, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You also report to Minister Virant that he has damaged state property and proposed legal provisions which do not clearly show the level of budget spending. This is where you're talking about the case deleted. Is the Minister's effort to finally resolve the issue of deleted, unlawful and harmful within the limits of the possible Slovenian policy agenda? Would it not be better to ask how much damage has been done to those who have not taken appropriate solutions in time? We're talking more than ten million here, too. Minister Virant, in my opinion, is doing his job well and therefore has my full support. Sam will give you a detailed answer to your findings today, and I am sure he will do more than successfully. Finally, allow me to reiterate that in a relatively short time our government has been able to improve a number of indicators that have not shown any optimism in years. We have proved this, and this is also recognised by others: internally unburdened experts, the European Commission, financial markets, international institutions, and we could list them. So let me call you again: let us do our work! Only in this way will we be able to fulfil the commitment that we have given to both Parliament and citizens - the commitment to put our country where it belongs - among the best in Europe. And believe that we will, we will put Slovenia next to the best!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u13	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister Gregor Virant to explain the written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u14	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Madam President of the Government, colleague of the Minister, fellow ministers, colleague of the Member of Parliament and fellow Members! I recently watched a newspaper article called The Danger of Being Home Secretary. Indeed, almost everyone so far has experienced interpolation, some even more, so I was not particularly surprised that the opposition has given me this attention. Today I will listen to you carefully because as a Democrat I respect the constitutional interpolation institute, but I would like you to listen to my arguments too – and I have many! I would like to present to you the results achieved during my current ministry. I would like to reiterate the reasons for individual decisions, and I would like to explain to you that my decisions stem from the liberal values in which I believe. These are: the rule of law, justice, freedom, tolerance, mutual respect, dialogue and smart, rational governance of the country. The Minister of the Interior, as you know, brings together the work areas that were once covered by two ministries, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration. As Minister of the Interior, I am directly responsible for the work of more than 11,000 co-workers and co-workers, if I include the Ministry, the police as a body in the composition, two inspectorates in the composition of the Ministry and also co-workers and co-workers in administrative units. If I judge by my experience with these co-workers and co-workers, I can say that my opinion on the knowledge and capacity and capacity of the state administration is good. Every day I meet extremely capable people who know a lot who are willing to do very much and, of course, there are results. It is a huge job, and in the first 286 days of my mandate, I have used virtually every minute to solve this country's problem, and there are few of these in my field. After nine months with my excellent colleagues, I achieved the following key results. Firstly, an agreement with the public sector unions on the termination of the sentence and on measures to adapt the public sector's wages to the real capacity of that country. Secondly, the provision of the compensation scheme for deleted persons, which represents the implementation of the judgement of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights and thus the finalisation of this issue after more than 20 years. Thirdly, the adoption of the Law on Political Parties and the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign, which, by prohibiting corporate financing of political parties, direct links between the economy and politics or political parties, thereby reducing corruption risks and implementing six-year-old recommendations from GRECO; the project was also supported by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Court of Auditors. Fourthly, accelerate debirocratisation with the Stop bureaucracy project. The project to remove administrative barriers in this country has been going on for many years. This year, with the renewed name Stop bureaucracy, we have given him a new acceleration, a new start, and over the last few months we have simplified a number of administrative procedures. You are in Parliament, we have adopted a new Law on the General Administrative Procedure, which will soon change the position of the parties in the administrative procedure so that they will no longer have to fill out the forms. So we introduce, we could say, public administration without forms. The party will come to the window, tell you what it wants, and the official will fill out the form for it, and the party will just sign and file the application. The last simplification, for example, is a fairly simplified form for a child supplement, to reduce payment for kindergartens, this is a novelty that has come into circulation in recent days and, of course, such simplifications have been very much more. Next, the adoption at first reading of a law that promotes transparency, i.e. access to information of a public nature from the public sector to enterprises owned by the majority state and municipality. So the public will have an insight into donor contracts, sponsorship contracts, advisory contracts, legal contracts and other documents available to these companies, which are our common property, which are our common property. Transparency is very important here, it reduces corruption risks and represents a big step forward – this law. Successful reduction in the number of employees in the state administration. This observation, which was said to increase the number of employees in the state administration, I don't understand at all, because the truth is the other way around. From 1 April this year to 1 October, the number of employees in the state administration decreased from 31 000 753 to 31 000 310, i.e. by 443 or half years by 1.4%. The number of employees in the state administration is decreasing, we have this under control and it will continue to decline. A relatively favourable conclusion to the car sticker case, it is said, is the truth between the state and the company Mirage, this is an unfortunate story that smells like corruption. Remember the introduction of car stickers, which I think were introduced today, not for the benefit of the drivers, but to make a very concrete profit. These stickers were removed in 2005. The company that produced them filed an action against the State and this action was also received, but this year we decided to submit an audit to the Supreme Court, and I specifically insisted, with the help of state lawyers, we have done so and the common achievement is that we have saved the country some more than €7 million with this audit. At that time, I devoted much of my energy to cleaning skeletons from the closet; the problems created in the past that keep falling on the table of this government. This government is constantly confronted with the need to clean up the backwaters of the past, to solve the problems that have arisen in the past, to bury skeletons that are constantly falling on the table from the closet. It is the destiny and mission of this government to come to this country in a clean manner and that we can look ahead and start a new momentum, a new development. And these skeletons fell on my desk something in my mandate. I mean deleted – a 20-year-old story. I'm thinking about Mirage. I am referring to the Supreme Court's judgment on the third quarter of wage imbalances resulting from a single error made by the government in 2010. These are problems, these are unpleasant stories, and when we come with solutions, we act in some way as bearers of bad news, but we do not close our eyes to problems, we do not sweep them under carpets and you will see, in a few years, the situation in Slovenia will be better, or especially because that is how we operate. We look into the problem. In doing so, I have also paid great attention to the functioning of the police as a body within the Ministry of the Interior. This is always based on the principle that professional autonomy must be guaranteed to the police and peace needed for the quality of their work. The police leadership knows that my expectations are one thing: professional, effective and neutral work. The Slovenian police know and take into account the opinion of the Interior Minister that there must be no holy cows and untouchable in this country. Under these circumstances, the police have significantly improved the results in the area of economic crime and corruption, which are clearly the main priorities of its work. In the first nine months of this year, in the field of economic crime, crimes that have together caused 318 million euros of damage have been successfully investigated. The investigation and prosecution of economic crime and corruption are extremely important in these times if we are to gradually restore confidence in justice and the rule of law to citizens, and at a time when we have to give up, in fact, when we have to pay from our pockets for the sins that others have committed in the past, it is of utmost importance to show that the detection and prosecution institutions are functioning. We can say that they work; this can be seen through accusations, indictments, judgments, convictions and through the fact that some who have caused us the situation we are in are already in prison. Given the weight of today's day, when we are familiar with the size of the bank hole that took place in this country for 20 years as a result of wrong business decisions, as well as as as a result of crime; in anticipation of today's day, I have ordered the police to produce a report on the conduct of investigations in the banking sector. I received this report and pointed to the following: that serious work on banking crime started only in 2011 and then in one bank, in Hypo Bank itself, and was also successfully completed, mainly due to the very corporate and proactive approach of the Hypo Bank administration. In fact, it was not until the early autumn of last year that the other banks began to work intensively on the basis of a careful review at Nova Ljubljanska Banka on the basis of the Bank of Slovenia report, and since then both the police and the police administrations, as well as the state prosecutor's office, have been working very intensively on these investigations. The method of work used in this is the so-called specialised investigation teams. This means that prosecutors, criminals, the best criminals, as well as experts from the Tax Administration, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Bank of Slovenia work together on matters. So it's a multidisciplinary group investigating crimes in a bank. Many criminal charges have already been filed in this regard. The total amount of damage from the issuances for which complaints have been filed is now around €80 million. In the investigation, there are crimes that together have caused damage to more than €340 million. My assessment is that this has started to take place that, of course, this is not yet all the damage that will be revealed as a result of the crimes, but works are intensively and the perpetrators of these crimes will be brought before the court and the police, and the prosecution will present the relevant evidence for the convictions where there is responsibility. I'm sure. You have noticed that there have also been some difficulties in working with our largest bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, where I hope that I have made myself clear enough and hit the table hard enough to move things around. If the bank’s management does not work proactively, so if it does not carry out its own work in determining the irregularity in its system, if it does not hand it over to the police, if it does not continue to cooperate on a continuous basis with the provision of relevant data and documentation, then it will be difficult to work. But we need to know that the interest of the state as owner of the three banks is that irregularities are being investigated and that the people who did this will ultimately be responsible for their actions. I also introduce prudent changes in road safety. With new guidelines, I directed the police or ordered them not to operate incassantly and to locate speed controls at those points where accidents occur and at those points which the local population sees as problematic as neurological. So, traffic control points, if carried out according to my directions, will be where traffic accidents occur, or where local people feel threatened by the deranged, the savages who threaten them and their children. Maybe just fresh information from this morning, of course I don't have the credit for this information, but I think it's good and it's worth telling. This year's death toll is the lowest in history. It is 13% lower than the same period last year. Still drastic too much! Our vision and the vision of the police are, of course, nothing, no fatalities. What I've written down has already been achieved. A number of projects are also being prepared, which will be short-circuited into political and public coordination. We intend to ban legally convicted individuals from acting in politics. This is also in line with the decision of the Committee of the National Assembly, which ordered the Government to do so. We intend to give the parishioners in small municipalities a non-professional status. We intend to allow the mayor to be recalled, in line with the Commission's proposals to prevent corruption. Amendments to the Public Sector Wages Act to simplify and improve the flexibility of the public sector wage system are being prepared. Let me remind you that the OECD has revised our so-called salary reform and the findings are that this reform has been a great positive step forward, and we have also been recommended to make some changes in the next step towards greater flexibility, to make the system more flexible, to enable better rewards for the more successful and to make it easier. So we're working at the Ministry of the Interior full. We solve problems, we shake nuts, we clean skeletons that fall out of our closets. I'm not such a sort of man that when I was elected minister, I would sit on a chair, cross my hands, lean on, smile kindly, and wait with my hands crossed. I'm used to working hard. I'm used to solving problems. That's how I understand my job. It is clear to me that you cannot all agree with these solutions; it is perfectly clear to me that if the Minister works largely and actively to raise the dust. So it's no wonder that my friend Cuffer and I were on the first list of opposition shootings. A little more concrete about the interpolation readings, which I completely reject. First, with regard to local self-government and community reunification. The applicants tell me that I am jeopardising the system of local self-government and consistent regional development, and then they divide it into two parts. In the first part, I am told that I am endangering this through a system of community funding, and in the second part through the assembly of congregations, or as they call it, abolition. As far as funding is concerned. The Ministry of the Interior has not sent any proposal to the government or parliamentary procedure to make the financial situation of Slovenian municipalities worse. You refer to some old drafts that have been the subject of expert discussions and I have never approved them as an official proposal for a government or a parliament. However, it is necessary to know that the analysis of the existing community funding system shows serious anomalies and that we will have to undertake serious reforms to the community funding system. Anomalies are mainly – more than one, but if I mention one. In particular, those municipalities that have a disproportionate proportion of preschool children and school obliged children are underestimated. These are extremely expensive tasks, they cost a lot and are inadequately evaluated in the community funding system. Thus, this reform will be necessary and will be carried out carefully, prudently and also in consultation with representative associations of municipalities. With regard to the merger of the congregations. The reform of the territorial network of municipalities towards their integration, I believe, is necessary and useful because it will strengthen the municipalities in relation to the country and thus contribute to decentralisation. It is a mistake to think that the country will be more centralized if it has more small, small congregations — this is completely wrong! The country will be decentralised if it has a strong, strong congregation that will be able to carry out successfully all the tasks they have under law and that will also be able to face state centralism. You know, we've broken Slovenia too much, we're too small for 212 municipalities, and fragmentation and vaccination are never the right solution. Never. It's always better if we're looking for connections, alliances and synergies. The merger of municipalities would contribute to raising their managerial capacity, strengthening their development potential and allowing them to shift their share of resources by financing the operations of local officials and officials and other directoral ballast into development, investment, and useful things. Let me just give you one piece of information. Since 1995, when the new congregations were formed, the number of employees in municipal administrations has increased from a thousand to 840 to 4 thousand 600, and two and a half times as many employees are now in municipal administrations as they were at the beginning. At the same time, the number of employees in administrative units, i.e. government units, decreased by 15 percent, so the municipalities literally went wild with employment. Such a reform, which would lead to integration, would make an important contribution to better rural and urban development. This is a positive solution for the Slovenian countryside and not a negative one. Stronger rural congregations will be much easier to deal with than small, fragmented statesmen. In doing so, we must stress that the Ministry of the Interior has not yet tabled any reform proposals in the government procedure, but we intend to first draw up a comprehensive strategy for the development of local self-government, to debate it in the professional public, with representative associations of municipalities and then also with you, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, my fellow opposition, I offer you a time frame for dialogue and for further debate on these issues. Today, however, I am intertwined for even thinking and speaking out loud about my support for congregation reunion. So, in fact, today you're interpreting my freedom of thought, my freedom of thought. The findings relating to the harmfulness of the professional agreement and the agreement with the trade unions on additional wage measures and other labour costs are entirely unfounded. The technical agreement and the agreement on additional measures are important negotiating achievements. Their conclusion ended the sentence in the public sector, saying that we achieved some social peace – when the government took over our work, we were in the public sector's line. Secondly, with this agreement, we have achieved extremely significant financial effects: in 2013 some over 100 million, in particular 108 million, and in 2014 for more than 400 million. If this agreement were not for this agreement, the public sector wage in 2014 would be more than 400 million higher if all the measures taken by the agreement were to be included and those measures from the ZUJF which were extended by the agreement and would expire in 2013. You know, you're reading back to me something that's actually an achievement, which was a positive result, which we had to do. When I took over the ministry at the end of March when Alenka Bratušek took over the government, we found or saw that it was perfectly clear that the budget in a number of points was unrealistic. In particular, he was unrealistic in the wage segment. The former, the Janševa government made this mistake so that it did not agree with the trade unions on measures to reduce wages for 2013. Or, if she couldn't make a deal, she didn't at least adopt a law to solve it. In 2012, this was done wisely; first we accepted the ZUJF and on this basis we reduced the salary weight in the budget, and in 2013 this was not done. The figures in the budget fell virtually and the measures allowing these figures to be realised were not. And if we didn't do anything, then by the end of the year we'd be running out of salary money, we wouldn't be able to pay our wages in December. That's why we had to sit at the negotiating table right away and start talking to the unions. I think some of you will remember my hearing when I said it would be my first priority. As soon as I get to the Ministry, I will sit down with the unions the next day and we will start negotiations on the salary in 2013 and 2014. And that's what I did. I said, by the end of May, we'll be negotiating, rarely did anyone believe, the first union reaction was that by then we'd barely be well warmed up, but on 20 May, respected colleagues and colleagues, the agreement was concluded. If such an agreement had been concluded at the beginning of the year, the measures would have been effective throughout the year and would have been significantly easier, nor would the budget rebalancing be needed. This is how we did it in May, so it only took place in the middle of the year and these measures were only applicable in the second half of the year. Then you take one point out of this agreement and you read me as a mistake. See, this point, i.e. this right of union members to receive higher solidarity aid and a jubilee award than other civil servants, is something completely minor in this agreement. The financial implications of this in 2014 are 1 million and on the other hand 400 million savings. So you miss $400 million, and you stick to $1 million — that's ridiculous! I also do not like this provision in the agreement, but, you know, who has ever negotiated, knows what negotiating tactics are, and knows that compromises are needed in negotiations. And by concluding this compromise, respected opposition colleagues, we have allowed this country to implement the budget in the paid segment this year and to do so in the following year. We saved the country 400 million in the next year if you want. And one more thing, this controversial point that you're reading to me has been entered into an agreement on the basis of one law that made this possible for the first time before this law would not be allowed to do so. And this law is – look, look – the Visions Act on Working Relationships! This law has allowed such an agreement to be concluded. The comment by experts and experts, Katarina Kresal, Soltes and some others specifically states that this provision on the possibility of agreement on higher rights for union members refers, for example, to solidarity aid. So here we have only implemented the law prepared by Comrade Vizjak and supported by all of you in the National Assembly, with the exception of the DL Group, which considers that the Labour Relations Act has not brought about sufficient reform of the labour market and time shows that only the National List has indeed been right. The perceptions also refer to the interpolation of the third quarter of wage imbalances. I don't think I have to waste a lot of time here. The law by which we settled this follows the Supreme Court's judgments; the Supreme Court of Slovenia's judgments, we had to implement this, it was respect for the principles of the rule of law; there was no other option. I told you about the number of employees.'In the state administration, it decreases and does not increase. And when Mr Tonin tells me that in this area, I am changing my mind on this. Look, my views are perfectly consistent. My policy on the number of employees in the state administration has been exactly the same since the first day I started doing this as a politician, and this was in late 2004, when I became Minister of Public Administration. At that time, I said that we would start a process of reducing the number of employees in state administrations. We will not do this on a chorus, I have not made populism statements in the style of half the state officials should be forgiven, but I said we will start a process of reducing the number of employees. And we got him! And it was successfully led by the first Janša government, continued by Pahor's government, was successfully pursued by another Janša government and continued by the successful government of Alenka Bratušek and the result of this process, launched in 2005, was that the number of employees in the state administration decreased from 34 000 387 to 31 000 967, plus an additional 400 later this year. Only in the civilian part of the state administration, if we subtract the army and the police from 17 thousand 93 to 14 thousand 859. This is a successful policy of reducing the number of employees that we will continue, as the state administration still has reserves, there is no doubt about it. On the display you can also see a curve of how the number of employees fell over the years. The perceptions of the proposed interpolation in relation to the compensation scheme law for deleted persons are also entirely unfounded. This law represents the implementation of the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights of 26 June 2012, issued in the Kurić and Others v Slovenia case. The adoption of the law was necessary, as otherwise serious adverse consequences would arise for Slovenia. Firstly, the judgment of the European Court of Justice would not have been implemented, which would mean that Slovenia does not respect international obligations, that it does not respect the principles of the rule of law, that it does not respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that would also constitute a further distortion of international reputation for Slovenia. Believe me, in my contacts with foreign statesmen, with foreign ministers and ambassadors, I have often felt uncomfortable with the issue of deleted ones because abroad saw this as a stain that Slovenia, as a country, must correct. Well, even if we looked purely pragmatic, if we left the events to the European Court of Human Rights for further proceedings, we would have significantly greater financial implications than by regulating the compensation scheme in the internal law of the Republic of Slovenia. I am convinced that the adoption of the compensation scheme law was not only Slovenia's duty because of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, but also its moral and legal obligation to persons who have been violated human rights and fundamental freedoms. When considering the law, I stressed that Slovenia was generous and correct and broad-minded when it came to the issue of citizenship when it came to independence. At that time, citizenship could have been given to anyone who wanted to have it. It is a pity that the then government and the then parliament – or Parliament was then called a congregation – made a mistake in those persons who did not rely on Slovenian citizenship, but wanted to live normally and continue to live in the territory of Slovenia. That was a mistake back then. If we just let those who had the right to reside in Slovenia to become independent in order to have a normal permanent residence continue to be entitled to a permanent residence, there would be no problem. And for the people of all the countries of this world, or for the citizens of all the countries of this world who had permanent residence in Slovenia at the time of independence, we have made this possible, and for the members of the republics of the former SFRJ this has not been possible. And there was a mistake. Even if anyone thinks it was not, the courts have found this, our Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights has found that this was a legal error and an injustice that had to be corrected. In doing so, I particularly stress that I have always advocated the principle of individual treatment in deleted persons and that the law follows the principle of individual treatment as far as possible after 20 years. If we were to solve the problem in the 1990s, it would be much easier to solve it in a very individualised way, from case to case. After 20 years, it's much harder. However, the law allows individual treatment already through the circle of beneficiaries. Only those who have taken care of their status, who have applied for permanent residence, or for citizenship, or who have lived in Slovenia as illegals, will be entitled to compensation. Those who have never expressed interest at all these times have shown some activity, we do not give those rights. So now some would just show up for damages and say, "Look at me, I'm here, after 20 years I've remembered that I've been erased and now I'm going to enforce compensation." No, this law doesn't allow it! And secondly, the amount of compensation the law only partially flattens. 50 euros a month is erased or a total of around 12 000 euros, that is, flat. From here on out, they shall have the right to enforce their claim before a court. In this application, in this proceeding, everyone must prove in justice the amount of damage caused and the causal link between the deletion and the amount of damage to documents, witnesses and other means of proof. So, from the case, it's very individualized. In the parliamentary debate, I have clearly and unequivocally explained the magnitude of the financial implications envisaged. The estimated amount of financial implications is 130 million over five years, of course taking into account certain assumptions. We cannot predict with 100% certainty how many deleted will be decided at all to apply for a flat-rate application and how many will then continue in a fair trial. We have come from a assumption which, in my view, is cautious and conservative, that everyone will demand a flat rate and that then half of them will decide on a further trial path and that everyone will challenge the maximum in this case. If that's the case, it'll cost us 130 million in five years. The Act on the Indemnification Scheme should be adopted by Slovenia in accordance with the judgment by 26 June of this year. When I came to the Ministry, there was no spirit or hearing about him, there was no "with" from the law. Yet, only a few months — three — separated us from the expiration date! There was an expertly strong and committed interdepartmental working group, excellent lawyers, excellent experts, political will and guidance that the problem must be resolved within a time frame, but there was no need to resolve it. This was extremely irresponsible political play with the interests of the state. I've already announced at the hearing that I'm going to solve this problem as a matter of priority. If you look at my listening magnetogram and what I'm telling you today, you'll see that that work plan that was then set to follow him very closely. During the eight months we have prepared the law, inter-resorted it, met twice with representatives of the deleted, unfortunately we have not found a common language, brought the law through the government procedure, through all three parliamentary hearings and also through a hearing in the State Council where it was proposed, but fortunately an unvoted veto. However, it proved to be the right thing to do for those of us who proposed the abolition of the State Council. The debate in the State Council and the arguments were – I apologize for allowing myself to use this Slovenian term – were copies of the SDS debate in the National Assembly. Exactly what Mr Grims said in the National Assembly, the copy-paste was transferred to the proposed veto of the State Council. So much for the apolitical, non-party nature and so on of the State Council, but the institution that would no longer have been if it had followed the proposal of the Civil Gazette in the National Assembly, unfortunately a few votes have been lost. So, we have brought the law through the procedure quickly and effectively, by law, I hope that we have fully closed the problem that has been going on for 20 years, laid the groundwork for the correction of the injustices and for the correction of the legal error for which those who have proposed and adopted the Aliens Act were responsible. I have recently met with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr Jagland, and I have met with the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, Mr Muizniex, the last time I reported on the adopted law, the reactions were such that we could be proud of the Slovenians there; we are proud to come from Slovenia because we have regained the reputation of a country that respects the rule of law, human rights and our commitments. Many ambassadors in Ljubljana also congratulated me on the adoption of this law. At the end of this explanation of my reply, let me especially thank the interviewers Matthew Tonin and Novi Slovenija for the happy birthday cards I received on SMS and e-mail and I understood them as an act of Christian principle: love of my interpreter. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The interpretation that will be discussed today is totally groundless and hand - to - heart — mag. Matthew Tonin and colleagues from New Slovenia, SDS and the Slovenian People's Party – also means wasting time and tax money. The vast majority of the people I talk to these days think so. I know, I've seen that the interpellation of public support doesn't have, your members and your supporters support it because you filed it. However, I wonder whether it would not be wise to devote this day and the following days to the debates on the essential issues that concern our country. When we do – we will! – closed the bank hole, when we finally came to the clear, what is the situation in public finances and the banking system in this country, now comes the moment of reflection. Now comes the moment when we will be able to create conditions for new economic growth and when we will have to devote our time to the Slovenian economy to give it oxygen to enable it to become more competitive, so that we will once again have economic growth, because it will solve a number of problems. In this way and only in this way will we be able to repay our debts that we have accumulated, in this way and only in this way will we be able to sustain the social state, pensions, social transfers, public education, public health and everything else. All you can tell me is the idea of bringing together municipalities, agreeing with unions to reduce wages, solve the problem deleted, are in fact achievements that I am proud of and are the results of hard work. In eight months, I, along with my colleagues, solved many of the problems that plagued Slovenia, buried some skeletons that fell from the closets, and cleaned up some dirt. If I hadn't done it, if I hadn't done it, then I would have earned your interpretation. In fact, you're interpreting me because I'm an effective worker. That's how I understand this interpolation. All the decisions I have made have been made on the basis of my expertise, and you have never denied me in the opposition, and on the basis of the liberal values in which I believe and believe my National List; these are; the rule of law, justice, freedom, mutual respect, dialogue, human rights and smart, rational governance of the country. In all my work and in every decision, as every man comes from his own values, I come from these values. I know exactly what I want to achieve as a minister, I know what I am doing, the decisions I make are thoughtful, and I always choose the best possible, in accordance with my knowledge and in accordance with my values. Of course, I also accept different views and I understand that at some points with the opposition we will not come together, for example, on the question of whether there are too many municipalities in Slovenia, or whether the municipalities are too small, too small. We will not come here together, but I understand this debate today on interpolation as some kind of confrontation of concepts; a legitimate, political confrontation of concepts. That's okay. It's too bad we're dealing with this today. We could wait a few months for the government to come with a local self-government strategy to Parliament and, when the time is right, we would do this debate and not waste that time today. Respected colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, with resentments, arguments, throwing pollen under your feet will not contribute to the improvement of the situation in Slovenia. We'd better step in together and work together to find the best solutions for our country. There are a lot of problems and a lot of dirt left, and I haven't had the will to work. It is not easy to work in the government in these difficult times, this work has to do with great efforts, denials, frustrations and, at the same time, also makes it happy, because I know that this government team, with the president at the helm, works for the good of the countries and moves things in the right direction. Thank you for listening to me, and now I will listen to you again.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Minister Gregor Virant. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u16	Honourable Vice-President of Parliament, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Interpellation is a democratic institution that we must use, which we Members can use. And if Minister Gregor Virant respects all democratic institutions, then don't let us deny this opportunity to interpret him when we think he's making mistakes, and not when he sets the time. Clearly, interpellation is also a good time for the minister himself, for we have heard how he was able to boast about all his achievements. And interpellation is also a time when we can make our comments when we can express our criticism and perhaps because this minister respects dialogue, some of our proposals in the future will also be taken into account. That is why we understand interpellation in particular as an instrument through which we can tell the Minister what is wrong in our view and also make recommendations to him so that he can work differently from now on or at least in some points. In no case did we report his unemployment. We think this minister is very busy, but if a person has too much work, he can make many mistakes. And that's exactly what we're reading to Minister Virant, because by talking too quickly about the abolition of municipalities and the measures he's about to take, he's done a lot of bad will in Slovenia. Although he has not actually learned any of this yet, there has been a lot of talk about this, not only by the opposition Members, but by the entire Slovenian public, so it is also important to take care of the words that do not go too far and eventually prove to be very harmful. So, the timing of interpolation can be a good time to rethink our actions and perhaps slow down a step, even though the minister saves the dead, the skeletons from the closet and the three nuts – we will soon have to do so too. The highest functions in the country must be occupied exclusively by persons with integrity, which is the goal of both political parties and voters. And what qualities are expected from top government officials? On the Commission's anti-corruption websites, we can read the definition of integrity and look at it. Integrity is integrity, consistency, honesty, honesty and credibility. A person with integrity is a person who speaks what he thinks and does what he says. Its actions are in line with moral standards and the legal order in force. Is Dr. Gregor Virant a person of integrity, or is he really doing what he says? I suggest you answer this question yourself, but also self-critical. We would focus on the question of whether his actions are in line with moral standards and the rule of law. The first and main message that we refer to the minister and question his integrity is his plan to force the assembly of the congregations. This proposal intervenes in the constitutionally guaranteed right to self-determination of citizens. In Article 139, the Constitution lays down the criteria for determining the territory of the municipality. The municipality is one or more settlements related to the common needs and interests of the population, following a constitutional dictatorship. The will of the population to establish the municipality is expressed in a referendum. These are therefore the constitutional starting points for the establishment and establishment of an area of municipalities. This constitutional principle has also been respected in the establishment of the present congregations. Only after the same procedure as the establishment can a procedure be followed for the possible abolition of municipalities, so the termination of each municipality can be carried out only by a referendum and by no means in the manner represented by Mr Minister in public. Thus, the procedure for the abolition or association of municipalities with a mandatory provision to be drawn up and voted by the current coalition majority is unconstitutional. No reason, including public savings, can justify such unconstitutional routes to interfere with the system of local self-government. Not only formal but also strong substantive reasons speak out against reforms in the field of local self-government in the way presented by the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant. However, we agree with him that certain reforms are necessary. The existing system of local self-government has proved to be successful and well-functioning. With him in recent years, we can say that we have approached the objective of coherent regional development. In particular, the small rural municipalities allocated a large part of the funds to local care arrangements. Roads, sidewalks, plumbing, sewage networks and telecommunications infrastructure were built. If we drive through Slovenia, even to more remote or even remote places, we can see that settlements have neat roads and other public areas – of course no place is in place for us. All of this infrastructure has been largely financed or co-financed by the European Union. With investment projects, municipalities were an important member of the mitigation of the economic crisis, as the implementation of investments in infrastructure enabled the work and survival of many economic operators, companies and independent entrepreneurs, in particular in the area of construction, which were the most hit during the economic and financial crisis. Prior to the announced intervention in the local self-government system, the Minister did not consult the expert and representative associations of local self-government, although he has always argued how he is for dialogue. Experts in the field of local self-government subsequently drew attention to questions the Minister had apparently ignored in response to the announced interventions. This is the question of the jurisdiction of the congregations, in particular those powers that the State has delegated to the congregations with many new laws. So these are areas that are essentially within the jurisdiction of the State and have been transferred by the State without prior analysis of the financial and other effects to the municipalities. Let me give you an example of the Health and Health Insurance Act. The State has passed the cost of payment of compulsory health insurance to nationals of the Republic of Slovenia who are unemployed or who are not insured on any other basis. With the amendment of this Act, adopted last month, the State imposed on local communities the payment of compulsory health insurance costs even for foreigners without employment. Another example, perhaps, is the payment or payment of the cost of care in nursing homes. This cost is also, in fact, the burden of the State. Under the Constitution, we are a social state and it should be the responsibility of all citizens to ensure social security, and in particular the duty of the State. The Minister should therefore, instead of reorganising local self-government, first address the issues of redistribution between municipalities and the state and recognise this as a fundamental substantive issue where business rationalisation and the reduction of local government expenditure can be achieved. The abolition of municipalities is not the right way to rationalise local self-government. We are confident about this in the New Slovenian-Christian Democrats and we have been very clear about this all the time. The system of local self-government is one of the rarely well-functioning systems in the country and interference with it in the manner presented by the Minister means great damage to Slovenia. In Novi Slovenije, we also filed an intervention against the minister due to irregularities in the payment of salaries to public servants, especially overpaid and paid salaries to some public servants. In this context, the Minister has publicly called for non-compliance with the legislation. On August 29, 2013, he explained that there would be no need to pay too much back, referring to a law that had not even been in the procedure, and he ignored the law in force, under which some wages were already being paid back. The next statement to the Minister of the Interior on the illegality of his work is the signing of a strike-off and agreement on austerity measures in the public sector by the end of 2014. With them, the Minister provided representatives of the trade unions, but not other public servants, with 20 per cent higher payments of solidarity aid and jubilee awards. Isn't this about bribery? In our opinion, such an agreement is illegal and discriminatory, but it seems particularly controversial to us that members of the union are provided with any greater entitlement to state budget payments. Such potential advantages could only be granted to union members from the union’s financial resources. We are confident that this will establish an agreement on austerity measures later on than previously subject to a constitutional judgment and will not pass this judgment. Christian Democrats also report to the Minister that the country is in harm's way in the event of compensation to the so-called deleted. The Act on the Reparation of Damage to Persons Exploited from the Register of Permanent Populations is contrary to the general rules of compensation law, according to its concept. In particular, we oppose the exclusion of individual treatment of each individual case of deletion. According to its content, the law is also unfair, especially to those who have settled their status properly and in due time, since it is those who will not be entitled or their compensation will be the lowest. For these reasons, the Christian Democrats of New Slovenia will also support the intervention against the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant. Two small errors resulted in two ministers, two presidents of Germany, and small errors are not easily excused.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u18	Good afternoon. Dear Members, the rest of you are here! Again, we are asked the same question as in the interpretation of the work of the Minister of Finance. What for? From the arguments cited in the interpolation, it could be concluded that the reason is only one: undermining the ruling coalition or ordinary politics. Although the interpolation is much better than the previous one, we could say that the opposition has learned much from its previous mistake, but we could not say that it is intended to achieve the basic purpose of this institution, which is supposed to serve as a mechanism of control, and the expression of democracy itself. Interpellation is an established parliamentary institution of parliamentary control by the continuation of the government or individual minister whose framework is already laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia itself. In the interpretation, however, Parliament should raise formal questions to which the government or the minister must answer and thereby justify its policy. Although this interpretation is much better prepared and actually relates to questions from the Ministry of the Interior, this was not the first one, and the content is completely flawed. Interpellation is made up of three points. The first concerns a proposal for a law that is practically not yet in existence. Although it was published on the Ministry’s websites, it was not subject to coalition coordination, nor was it subject to consideration at the Government’s meeting and, consequently, was not included in the legislative procedure. The second point concerns the signing of the expert agreement and the agreement on additional wage and other labour costs in the public sector to balance public finances and the second part on the signing of the declaration on the basis of which the third quarter of the pay gap has been suspended. However, the third point refers to the damage to the State budget resulting from the adoption of the Compensation Act to persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. In summary, the interpellationers believe that the Minister of the Interior must be resolved. Let's go in one order. First of all, because of a marriage that has never been and will never be. Secondly, due to the signing of an agreement to reduce wages in the public sector, which had to be concluded due to the unrealistic budget adopted by the Government of Janez Janša. Thirdly, for the purpose of respecting and enforcing the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Fourthly, even for the sake of respect and enforcement of the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights. This could lead us to conclude that the current opposition does not want Slovenia, which respects the rule of law, but wants to see governmentlessness, constant division into "yours" and "all others", and especially the environment in which mistakes by individuals or groups are easily concealed. In view of the fact that the interpretation is directed against the minister of one of the main state-of-the-art ministries, the applicants would be expected to be justified and very well-founded. That is not exactly what we can say, for neither of these arguments can stand. The first point therefore concerns the Law on the Financing of Communities, which has never been incorporated into the legislative procedure. While we are aware that the funding system for municipalities needs to be changed and adapted to the current situation, the moment when the property tax is introduced is completely inappropriate for such changes. Thus, the Law on Community Financing was published on the Ministry’s websites prior to the adoption of the Real Estate Tax Act. As a result of his acceptance, he has become unimportant. However, the Community funding system has already been discussed at an urgent meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, which was referred to at the request of the SLS, i.e. at the request of a co-signatory of interpretation. At this same meeting, justifications were given for all indications relating to the abolition of municipalities, to the disproportionate and unfair reduction of funds to smaller and financially weaker municipalities, and it was clear that there would be no further major interference in the field of local self-government. There will also be no administrative thefts. Therefore, the proposal for the Minister to be relieved of his office as a result of a proposal for a law not dealt with by the Government or the National Assembly is therefore completely pointless and groundless. The second point of interpolation concerns the conclusion of the strike agreement and the agreement on additional measures in the field of salaries and labour costs in the public sector to balance public finances which are expected to be detrimental to the Republic of Slovenia as they do not have the appropriate legal basis. Those documents were implemented by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014 and individual annexes to collective agreements. At a meeting of the National Assembly where the amendment of the Public Sector Wages Act was discussed, none of the opposition parties objected to the law. New Slovenia even announced its support in the presentation of its position. Joseph Horvat said that they supported measures to reduce public spending quickly and fundamentally and that they would support the law. Finally, they also abstained from voting. At the meeting of the home committee, Mrs Ramšak also said that any measure going in a positive direction was also acceptable to the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr Jerovšek also confirmed that he welcomed the agreement and considered the law necessary in the given situation. In voting on the law at the meeting of the National Assembly, the entire opposition then abstained. It is obvious, however, that this situation is also very different today, as they propose that these same documents will just get the Minister out of the way. That the situation is often changing in the case of the opposition has also been shown by the adoption of a law regulating payment imbalances. At first, they were against any payment at all, and a little later they wanted an immediate payment in a single amount, and a little later they demanded that the Ministry impose on the State defence authorities to file a constitutional complaint and thus protect the state budget, and finally they are again required to pay in one amount and immediately. The applicants in this part in particular forget that the law was passed on the basis of the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitution still provides that the Supreme Court is the highest court in the country. In the case of the applicants, the rule of law is likely not to cover the enforcement of judicial decisions, since otherwise it would not be against the law or the way. However, in order to comply with the provisions of the highest court in the country, they would not propose the discharge of the Minister. At the last point, the proposals go even further. Indeed, the Minister's dismissal is proposed even for the purpose of enforcing and respecting the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, which has clearly established that the Republic of Slovenia has violated human rights by erasure and that the mere recognition of this violation and the granting of a permanent residence permit are not adequate and sufficient to remedy the injustices at national level, unless adequate satisfaction is offered. The fact is that Positive Slovenia, as a new party on the political scene, is certainly not responsible for the deletion itself and also for the failure to address its consequences. Nevertheless, we believe and also believe that the National Assembly, as a legislative body, must recognise the deletion, along with the consequences, as a systematic and grave violation of human rights. Also in Positive Slovenia, in addition to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights, we refer to the deletion as discriminatory and unlawful action by the authorities of that time, and in particular as a serious violation of human rights, greater than any other offence committed by our country in its short existence. But obviously our priorities and values are slightly different, while the rule of law is very high in our country, it is evident that the opposition side is always lower. In Positive Slovenia, we believe that in his reply to the interpolation, the Minister has satisfactorily explained the reasons for his actions and the legality of his conduct and has rejected all the unfounded allegations made by the proposers, and we therefore propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, following the debate on the interpretation, he does not adopt the proposed decision on discharge from the post of Minister of the Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, distinguished Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have decided to contribute signatures to your interpretation, as we agree that your work and responsibility should be spoken of and that it should be decided, at the end of the day, that, because of the harmful action I will explain below, you will be relieved of objective responsibilities in some cases from the role of Minister of Home Affairs. As already explained in the introduction, you are being interpreted in the role of Minister of the Interior for four reasons, for our extremely controversial, unacceptable issues, including the integrity of the related issues, because of unconstitutional decisions relating to the equality of treatment of public servants, and because of the arbitrary and reckless conduct of reducing the number of municipalities. Before, in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, I focus on some of the findings that we are referring to in the interpretation, let me explain that in the SDS Group, when Nova Slovenija announced an intervention against the Minister of the Interior, before the signature, we wanted the interpretation against Dr. Gregor Virant to be adequately complemented by some of the key substantive questions, but unfortunately we did not succeed with them, although they are entirely on the ground and require the Minister's reasoned answers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted the interpretation to be complemented by the following emphasis: in the interpretation, we have a clear statement about the attempt to endanger the local self-government system, and we wanted this statement to be supplemented by an explanation of the privileged position of the Ljubljana Municipality compared to the other municipalities, which is undoubtedly the responsibility of the minister we are interpreting today, since it also covers the area of local self-government. In doing so, honourable Members, may I remind you of the minutes of the meeting between representatives of the Municipality of Ljubljana and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 23. Seven. 2013 which demonstrates the fact that the current government is primarily concerned about the additional transfer of taxpayers' funds to the Ljubljana City Municipality. This puts Ljubljana in a privileged position and, above all, creates an unacceptable inequality towards other municipalities, with all due respect for the capital of Ljubljana and its population. In doing so, the competent minister has, unfortunately, left due diligence for the equitable development of Slovenia and is therefore responsible. Let me also explain that the Government ignored the meeting with representatives of both the municipalities and other congregations at the National House in Celje on 23 October this year. None of the government's representatives attended this meeting. Not to mention government visits in the field that are practically absent in other regions. It is undeniable that visits to the Government in Slovenian regions would once a month be a necessity in terms of a fairer distribution of resources to solve problems in our country. This is also inevitable in terms of the more equitable development of Slovenia. We also wanted to see this interpretation, which we are dealing with today before very few Members and Members in order to include the point of recruitment, as well as the chiefs in administrative units, which we think we deserve special attention. Let me remind you something really, let me say some strange discharges from the functions of Chiefs of Administrative Units in the case of Grosuplja, in the case of Ljubljana and also some controversial appointments, such as in Maribor and the repeated invitation to tender in the case of the Administrative Unit Ilirska Bistrica. To make it clear to all that the competitions for the appointment of the chiefs of those administrative units were published at the time that Minister Senko Plitcanič headed the area, is a true colleague in the State Gazette of Mr Virant, and it appears that the media report that he is also a candidate for successor to the presidency of this party. So Dr. Senko Plitchanic was the one who did these things, and then Mr. Virant came and completely reversed the logic of his own minister. Here we can then say that it is undeniably a questionable decision by Minister Virant, which shows that administrative units in this case are becoming some kind of a drill for political recruitment, but we can say what the Civil Codes are. We also wanted a new point to be placed on the question of the role of Minister Virant, who is in charge of directing the police in the investigation of the members of the Republican Council. Let me remind you that this police investigation started on the basis of a proposal for prosecution sold by the Commission to prevent corruption. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it is an unacceptable attempt to restrict the constitutional right to freedom of expression and to abuse the powers that Dr Virant has in relation to the police. In view of the above, in our view, the role of Dr Virant should be clarified as it is a matter of ensuring the constitutional right to freedom of speech. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, also because of these perceptions, Minister Virant should leave the post of Minister of the Interior. Now, honourable Members, allow me to concentrate in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the impressions recorded in the interpretation. First, in our opinion, the voluntary and unconstitutional announcement of the abolition of certain municipalities or of the cruel operation of local government, then on the issue of the level of compensation to the deleted, and finally on the cost of airline tickets that Dr. Gregor Virant and his family had afforded. Let me explain or identify myself first to the obvious about the reduction or abolition of municipalities, which we refer to as the Minister of the Interior for interpretation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we argue that such willful and reckless conduct is a deliberate attempt to endanger local self-government and, consequently, an end to constitutional rights as defined in Article 138 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Local self-government has become one of the foundations of democracy and has also brought a number of innovations and principles that strengthen local and regional self-government throughout Europe. And Dr. Gregor Virant, as minister in charge of local self-government, should know that the essence of local self-government is a very balanced development. By such measures as you wish to carry out, you destroy and at the same time as you choose to make such drastic changes, undermine the authority of the local authorities, interfere with the autonomy of the municipalities, and say the self-centered way of ruling, where you and yours first, I will say a lot of pianist moves and then far behind citizens and citizens. Let's just remember the pianist package that you named Mr. Muscolo, who hypnotized you and your client, and then because of the imperfections of the solutions, and also because of some kind of hypocrisy that you've exhibited through this package, he's been removed from the procedure. Not to mention the so-called pianist cartridges that you presented to us daily in the halls of the National Assembly when you were the first to be among the same or the primacy of inter pares. Such a proposal, as we have written in the interpretation, threatens both the performance of mandatory tasks of certain municipalities and the consistent regional development, which is one of the important strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia as part of the objectives of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have already explained that the removal of more than 100 municipalities is unacceptable and, in the first place, means the beating of the will of the people who decided at the referendums for their municipality. We have also explained that, in order to improve the development of the whole of Slovenia, it is necessary to establish such organisational forms and approaches in the management of the country, which will provide all parts of the country and at all levels, both institutional and budgetary, at any time provide the same baseline development options. Otherwise, the development gap between the centre of the country and other parts will only increase. But that doesn't seem to worry you, Mr. Secretary. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we also believe that the appropriateness of the duties and obligations of municipalities as well as the way in which municipalities are financed should be examined. More powers should be delegated to the municipalities and those tasks that are now under the jurisdiction of the State and carried out by administrative units. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been warning for a number of years that, in order to increase the distribution of state resources and their greater effectiveness, the country should be decentralised and regions or provinces established. However, we have always been over-voted or never had the necessary number or consensus regarding the number of provinces. The first government, Janez Janša, has proposed provincial legislation that would allow for the envisaged and very welcome establishment of a second level of local self-government, namely with municipalities and provinces. This would also give Slovenia an internal governance breakdown of the country, as is the case with most European countries. The provinces would, among other things, allow for a closer link between the state and the municipalities. The distinguished Minister, however, can be said, according to the information recorded in the interpretation, is highly privileged to those municipalities which have a higher number of inhabitants according to their surface. Minister Virant is thus a greater gap between small and large municipalities and is carrying out a hidden centralisation of the country. At the same time, it must be said that the Minister does not communicate with representatives of local self-government, which is unacceptable for a minister who is also in charge of this area. This also damages the reputation of the Ministry and increases the mistrust between the local level and the state. That is why we believe that Dr. Gregor Virant can no longer serve as Minister of the Interior. Let me explain the position to the next reading, these are deleted. First of all, let me say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we respect the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, but once again we stress that the key point in solving this issue was unfortunately delayed, both without the European Court of Justice and without such compensation. If we had done so about ten years ago when we proposed a solution to the constitutional law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would certainly not be in the situation we are in today. And today you, Mr Minister, would not be in such a position and would certainly not be intertwined at this point. In this context, I would like to stress once again that the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which has led to a solution, as proposed in the legislative procedure, must be respected. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly explained that if someone has been wronged, it must be corrected — undeniably [[…]] I would only ask you, Madam President, if you could calm my fellow Members down a little, because it is very difficult to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I assume they heard you. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u22	Thank you very much. However, we also felt, of course, that this should be corrected by individual treatment and not by package. Minister Virant's reply to the interpretative findings regarding the damage recovery law to those who have been deleted from the permanent population register is significantly empty. Our warnings that the way in which the issue is resolved or deleted, as proposed on the left hand side, will only be reduced by purchasing as to the amount of compensation, have proved justified. By extending the range of beneficiaries in the proposal for a compensation law to transferees and raising the monthly amount of compensation to EUR 50, the state budget was inadequate, irresponsible and harmful. Dr Virant also provided a legal possibility for a two-and-a-half-time higher compensation than the envisaged lump sum. A solution to the adopted law, which provides that the beneficiary is entitled to EUR 50 per month of compensation under this law, raises the question of proportionality in terms of the weight of the survivor, especially if we compare the consequences of acts, such as totalitarian regimes. I'm talking about camps. I'm talking about stolen children. I'm talking about children from Petrička. All these people, or their relatives, have been waiting for decades to be rectified. I must not forget the victims of war and post-war violence and material harm. And in all these human rights issues, including the issue of deleted, the Minister should be equally sensitive to all and, above all, equally fair to all. The law adopted allows for the enforcement of individual circumstances and the enforcement of compensation for concrete material damage in a fair proceeding. In view of the above, it is not possible to provide an actual assessment of the impact on the budget and on other public funds, and therefore the Minister's extremely irresponsible conduct. We believe that the adopted resolution of the law places a high burden on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is particularly questionable and worrying in the face of an extremely acute financial situation. In our view, the law is also disputed in terms of fairness to those who have settled their status in the Republic of Slovenia in a timely manner and in accordance with the legislation in force at that time. In doing so, we would like to remind you that many individuals who have conscientiously refused Slovenian citizenship during the period following the independence of Slovenia and refused to stay in Slovenia or refused to settle their status are entitled to compensation. Dr Virant chose, instead of an individual hearing, which seems not only fair to us in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but also legally most appropriate, a path where each transferred or deleted person is entitled at least to flat-rate compensation, irrespective of the interest and the effort to regulate his status properly. It also bothers us, Minister, that you have heard our repeated warnings about the inappropriate and misleading use of the term "deleted" in the law, already in the title itself. We believe that the use of the term "transfer" would be more appropriate. I will not repeat the argument that Mr Grims put forward on several occasions in his performances, but I can say that we should nevertheless consider using this term in connection with the Republic of Slovenia, because the Republic of Slovenia was the one that, at the time of its independence, made it possible to obtain the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as to regulate the status of a foreigner. In the SDS, we have been proposing solutions to this issue for more than ten years, so that this issue can be resolved by constitutional law, which means individual, each case individually and not packaged. Dear Minister! Because we believe that your conduct on this issue, in all fairness, and also in some way – because we do not know what the budgetary implications will be – the adverse burdens of the state budget are, we think that you are no longer able to act as Minister for Home Affairs. Now let me focus on the so-called cheap airline ticket of Minister Gregor Virant. Dear Minister! It is clear to you that with an unjustifiedly high discount on the airline tickets of the Slovenian air carrier Adrie Airways, which is owned by the State, you have damaged the state property. You have never clearly explained the purchases of airline tickets with a high discount for both you and your family. You gave the press and the public air tickets to wash all your suspicions, and then the opposite happened. You have even further strengthened your conviction that, in your case, low-cost airline tickets could also be suspected of corrupt behaviour, since, unfortunately, you have never shown those air tickets that are most burdensome and controversial for you. In recent times, we have seen cases of both political and governmental types, when ethics is only included under pressure from the public. Thus, you, Mr Minister, as well as the outgoing President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Klemenčič, can demonstrate extremely quickly with your finger on the individuals you choose as the target, and you have significantly lower criteria for yourself when it comes to the issue of integrity. Why am I saying this? If you decide to judge and judge the actions of others you do, you must be ethically upright yourself. First example and example. As President of the National Assembly, you have stood up for yourself instead of a moral judge and have taken this right to judge everything and everyone, and you have forgotten your own, multiplely controversial conduct. Let us just remember how, in addition to receiving compensation, when you were no longer a minister, you also served on a part-time or contractual basis with other projects, such as Macedonia, where you have often flown directly with contested airline tickets. At that time, you earned about 100 000 more. But let me get back to cheap airline tickets. It has been behind us for more than half a year since the media first reported that, at unusually low prices in 2009-2011, you bought more air tickets to Macedonia and some other European countries. A few days later, we were informed that in order to prevent corruption, the Commission had requested the airline's relevant information on your airline tickets to determine whether there was a suspicion of corruption in the case at hand. It was therefore a review of only a few airline tickets, so the Commission should not have an excessively difficult task in order to prevent corruption and obviously had nothing researched and explained in this regard. We would expect the Commission to do its work to prevent corruption in the interests of greater transparency and, for the sake of your Minister, as well as its own integrity, in a few days, but this has obviously not happened. If we are to maintain our own credibility and integrity, we should ask Mr Klemenčič himself to give a principled opinion on these cards as soon as possible, and then, of course, we would reject any doubt that anything was wrong. I believe it wouldn't be too difficult for you, given that you've met on the round tables many times. However, you did not do so, so the Commission is now on the move to prevent corruption, which must comply with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and, for the sake of the highest standards, inform the public of the results of the investigation or investigation. Here I will allow myself to say that they may now be waiting for your interpellation to unfold, and then they will consider how 'to proceed in a wise way'. For the time being, however, we can only say that the Commission, in order to prevent corruption, is obviously deliberately delaying this case and protecting both Dr Gregor Virant's interests and the entire left political option and government, which in the end is not so unusual, as the new authority was formed precisely through the political project of Klemenčič's Commission and now to all known viransing. More than a month ago, I am President of the Commission for the Prevention of Magi Corruption. She sent an open letter to Goran Klemenčič, which primarily referred to disputed airline tickets and then to the early completion of the procedures for the purchase of airline tickets, but responded until today. Mr Klemenčič has resigned before, or I do not imagine that because of my letter. For example, I believe that, as we can read in the media, the silence of the wife's company, or the failure to act on the bank hole, or some of the unexplained things concerning the purchase of the family house is a significant problem as to the answer to my letter, but it would be appropriate for the President of such a commission to answer the questions raised by the Commissioner of the National Assembly. Immediately after the Commission's resignation to prevent corruption in the broadcast, Vice-President Rok Praprotnik found him in considerable difficulty when the journalist asked him about the air tickets linked to the internal minister. More than explaining that this is a complex matter, although it is only a matter of reviewing a few airline tickets, the Vice-President of the Commission has failed to prevent corruption. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission must, or must, verify the legality of the conduct of any individual, but in the Slovenian Democratic Party we point out that it must be objective and act in accordance with integrity, not selectively and politically. Unfortunately, some of the KPC's actions cannot be interpreted differently than that of the Commission's protection against corruption in the face of suspected corruption, and some of them are subject to only bureaucratic bullying. Let me remind you that, given that we have also received stress tests today, the Commission has done nothing in relation to a multi-billion-dollar bank hole in the Slovenian banking system, even though it had data, and by seeking links and responsibilities in the granting and hiring of bad loans, which is huge amounts. The only thing the Commission has done to prevent corruption in this regard was a brief and modest analysis of the assessment of the situation in the Slovenian banking system in the 2011 Commission report. Similarly, the Commission did not intervene to prevent corruption in the case of two publicly named tycoon banks, namely Factor Banks and Probanks, which would certainly have made interesting discoveries. As we are all aware, the poor business of both banks with the commitment of the government of Alenka Bratušek will have to be paid by all citizens. Because of all that I have just said, of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are rightly asking ourselves whether in all these unexplored cases there is some kind of demand between the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Minister of Home Affairs, because it is he who, within his powers, directs the work of the police, even when it comes to suspicions of corruption; that is, in the case of a bank hole, as in the case of air tickets. Let me also remind you that the Minister of the Interior works as a speaker, several times at the round tables together with the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or the Vice-Presidents. Of course, this would not have been wrong if I had not been the investigator of this commission in relation to the airline tickets. A spring that seems to have worked very well since the overthrow of the government of John Janša – and here respected Dr. Gregor Virant did not have the smallest role, but significantly greater than the public might think or imagine. The facts described can be summed up in one sentence: the actions of Minister Virant as a public official are, in some respects, contrary to legal integrity. This is also why we believe that Minister Virant is no longer able to serve as Minister of the Interior. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that interpellation and the minister must be supported, because, according to the evidence we have argued, he is responsible for the deterioration of the situation in the country and in some parts also for the damage to state property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the decision to discharge Dr Virant as Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Irgle. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well, I had to look at what the agenda was, because for a moment, I thought we were dealing with something else. And I'm going to get another reaction in the first place. I am pleased that the media has provided citizens and citizens of Slovenia with a notification of stress tests. Since we like to stress that people will have to pay for the hole, it is also right that people first hear what has been reported regarding stress tests. Madam Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State and Minister of State! The government of Alenka Bratušek was given a confidential position on the budget documents. Preparations are under way for a new coalition agreement that will reach over a one-year period for which the coalition has set 12 key priorities. Looks like it's time to test the coalition's strength at interpolation. Social Democrats recognise interpellation as an instrument of parliamentary democracy available to the opposition to express its disagreement with the work of the individual minister or government as a whole. What is special when interpreting against the Minister of the Interior, public administration and local government is the fact that Dr. Gregor Virant has enjoyed the trust of the previous coalition to the point of electing him President of the National Assembly. Interpellation intervenes in all three key areas of the Ministry's Department, which is under Dr. Gregor Virant's responsibility. I will deal with individual interpolation findings in order, as stated by the signatories. Initially, I stress that the Social Democrats are committed to democratic procedures and democracy at all levels of public affairs management. Individuals, individuals, groups and organisations, experts, experts and the general public must be involved in all matters, thereby strengthening participatory democracy. The social partnership between all organised representatives and representatives of vital interests is the basic system for addressing key social issues. Transparency, transparency, professionalism and autonomy of public administration, democratically elected authorities and political leaders are key components of the process of democratisation, which must continue at all levels of the political system. Working for the public good is a constant focus of the Social Democrats. To encourage people to participate in public debates on common matters, on matters for which we would like them to become common, on matters that need to be regulated, directed and led together, this is one of our main missions, and in this light we also see our definition for the interpretation that has been tabled. The first observation is related to the foretold gathering of congregations. In explanation of the request, the interpellationers refer to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, published and submitted to the public debate at the end of August this year. In the meantime, a new version of the amendment of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities is being prepared with a date from mid-November. It is therefore unwise to discuss a proposal that has been corrected at the request of the interested and professional public. Of course, it rightly raises the question of how to calm the debate and bring it down from political to professional level after it is difficult, with arguments, to vote out opposition in particular from small local communities. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that a strong local community provides the nearest conditions for the well-being of people and allows for the highest degree of their direct participation in decision-making processes. Therefore, all values are most at stake in the local community. Families, schoolgirls, schoolchildren, parents, older people, and employees meet here in their daily lives. The developed community itself establishes and nurtures healthy relations and conditions for quality life and security. The State must support local communities to develop as many vital functions as possible, especially with the possibility of a higher degree of participation of people in decision-making. The principle of subsidiarity applies to the integration of communities at different levels. The most important factors for strengthening local communities can be combined into three points: financial autonomy, cross-border integration at local level and the accelerated acquisition of alternative financial resources. Slovenia needs strong regions that will be dynamic and contribute significantly to the urbanisation of Slovenia with their centres. We strive for rational organisation of local self-government and smartly, at the democratic will of people, a well-founded integration of municipalities. Social Democrats are convinced that important issues related to local self-government and regionalisation of the country cannot be addressed either by coercion or by coercion or extortion. This requires gradualness, prudence and prudence, especially solid professional backgrounds and a realistic timeframe. Another time. Proposers believe that Minister Viranta signed two harmful documents for Slovenia with trade unions in May 2013 because they discriminate between public servants. It's supposed to help raise the deficit by signing it. Social Democrats are aware that the key priorities of the current coalition are the fifth, which says: to return to the public sector means also a place in society and strengthen its development potential. The social democrats have been making the impression of signing two allegedly harmful documents in the context of social bargaining and fairer burden-sharing for a longer period of time, which has particularly affected the public sector. This, however, is crucial to the functioning of the social and legal state and to ensuring the rapid development of the whole society, due to its dispersion and functions. In crisis, good public service, in particular the wide availability of services, is essential for overcoming the developmental lagging behind of socially less conducive environments, and especially for the social security of the most vulnerable population groups. Therefore, in agreement with the unions, we see only a guarantee of how to implement the country's obligations to pay the pay gap due to the elimination of the third quarter of the imbalances in the basic salaries of public officials and, on the other hand, to prevent further wage cuts in the face of the promised rationalisation, both within the scope of public finances. In doing so, we are surprised that, in particular, the position of the largest opposition party has changed in this way during the examination of the law. Initially irrevocably persistent in the submission of a constitutional complaint, the following day it replaced the requirement for immediate payment of the State's obligations to public servants. Third time. It's actually the most absurd observation. Investors argue that they respect the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, and we see in this request the complete misunderstanding and non-acceptance of the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights. The obligation of the Republic of Slovenia imposed by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights should be prepared at the time of the previous coalition, which was also part of the current Minister, Dr Gregor Virant. The Minister responsible for the preparation of the compensation scheme then made it clear in his statements, which ranged from weakening the judgment, through the militarization of the State's liability for machineryal injustice to the avoidance of compensation, that he was not in a hurry to prepare the legal basis. All that has happened since then is proof that the current opposition is of little concern to the Republic of Slovenia's accusations of human rights violations and the State's related distorted reputation in the international public. The reference to the constitutional law, which was supposed to solve the problem 10 years ago, is also empty because the constitutional law was only an attempt to circumvent the decision of the Slovenian Constitutional Court. At the time of the adoption of the law, the Social Democrats stressed in particular that the solutions to the affected are not optimal. In particular, we regretted the non-inclusion of the deleted in the drafting of the law and the narrow circle of beneficiaries. Just a little detail. New Slovenia argues that the law provides for compensation for all deleted, which is not true. Of course, the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court will have a decisive say if a constitutional assessment of the law is tabled. Since we expect Minister Virant to comply with our demands and prepare a local self-government strategy to draw up a proposal for a law on local self-government and community funding after dialogue between experts, representatives of local self-government and the public concerned; because he is able to reach agreements with the social partners, and because he has prepared a law on the reparation of persons who have been erased from the register of permanent residents, we will not support the envisaged interpretation of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Braniselj is next on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u26	Thank you, Vice President. Greetings to the Minister and the Secretary! In fact, we are convinced in the Civil Gazette that it is a specific case of abuse of the Institute of Interpellation, not because the interpretation itself would not be a democratic institution – of course, but it seems to us that the content is forcefully drawn and I think they have no evidence of any content and it seems far away. This high assembly should now discuss other, more important issues, such as the Commission's recommendations to prevent corruption, the results of the bank's stress tests and other matters and some of the issues that are important in the legislative procedure, and we had to present them at the January meeting. Almost the rule is that interpellations are being filed against a minister who is working and successful and obviously dangerous to the opposition under this title. However, success and work are not desirable with the interpellations' proponents. The new parliamentary practice is also interesting. The applicants did not even try, but only 10 pages of flat-rate evidence that does not refer to the findings of certain institutions and 47 pages of the reasoned pages of the Minister's response to the obvious. First of all, the proposalr one, then three and a long time, actually took all three applicants to agree on what topics they would actually open up at today's interpretation. And we're going in the obvious. Community integration project. We talk all the time about the gathering of congregations, not the abolishing of congregations. The facts are, in fact, the following. There is no formal proposal for the assembly of municipalities at all, you want to sanction actually the mental delinquency of a minister who hoped to think about it. The following is the fact that the reform of local self-government will be carried out prudently and that a comprehensive strategy will first be developed and then different discussions with different associations, and that is what the National Assembly is proposing. None of this has ever happened! Minister Virant has never proposed that municipalities be reduced in funding, but indeed the reduction in investment funds for municipalities is regulated by the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, which is an act of the Ministry of Finance. There are 212 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia, of which 109 have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, as required by the Law on Local Self-Government. Only 15% of the Slovenian population lives in these municipalities. The European Charter of Local Self-Government stipulates that local self-government marks the right and ability of local authorities to regulate and carry out local affairs. Justice and ability! In particular, these congregations lack the ability to carry out their tasks effectively and rationally. We quote the findings of the institutions of this country. The Court of Auditors is 5. 3. 2012 produced an audit report The regulation of the field of municipalities, which is published in the public domain, concludes: "On average, according to the number of inhabitants, they spend more resources on the average of the smaller municipalities, with less income coming from sources on which they can partially influence themselves. Therefore, and on average because of the poorer development, smaller municipalities are larger recipients of transfers and solidarity and financial compensation funds. Financial insolvency is present in 162 Slovenian municipalities. The share of state resources has increased steadily from 1995 until 2008, from 30% to 54% and is increasing further. The number of employees in municipal structures increased from 2001 to 2010 from 3 000 428 to 4 thousand 622. There are up to 2 000 people in the municipality, and on average they have more employees than the larger municipality, and there is a risk that because of the small number of employees, smaller municipalities are not able to carry out all their duties as well as larger municipalities." Identification of the Court of Auditors. Next: "Most of the costs of external contractors had the smallest municipalities, some spent half of their budget just for their own operation." Identification of the Court of Auditors. The smaller municipalities are recipients of up to 60% of the country's revenue. Once again, municipalities with 2 000 inhabitants spend a greater share on their own activities, which means the circus is 100 % more expensive than the municipal administration. In 1988, two municipalities were established, the majority of whose municipalities were spoken against the establishment of a new municipality in the referendum and there was no referendum for one municipality. That is to say, we have three congregations where, in fact, we have raped citizens for a new congregation, but they did not want it. For 29 of the 45 newly established congregations, the government has given a negative opinion, which means that the interests of the local lobby in the National Assembly have explicitly prevailed. According to the criteria applied by the Court of Auditors in its audit, only 48 municipalities were financially independent in 2010. In 2010, 162 municipalities received excessive solidarity compensation, and the proportion of guarantees provided by municipalities to 5,000 people was once or twice as high as the other municipalities. The Law on the Financing of the Congregations has already prescribed a way of promoting the association of congregations, but, interestingly, a dead letter remains on paper. The Court of Auditors recommends that the competent ministry take a more active role in the field management, based on the analysis already carried out in view of the cost-effectiveness of municipalities in the independent implementation of tasks to meet the needs and interests of its inhabitants. The Court of Auditors recommends that the competent minister and the competent minister take these recommendations seriously – and we therefore interpel it! Other institutions, experts from the Council of Europe in 2010, have found that the growing fragmentation of municipalities could be a reason to promote the process of centralisation. And that's what we clearly don't want. In its study The Territorial Review of Slovenia in June 201-2011 in several cities found that a large number of municipalities were hampering the organisation and provision of coherent regional development and that small municipalities had disproportionately high funding resources in relation to other municipalities, and therefore it is not in the event of a merger of municipalities. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in its last annual report, pages 93 to 96, notes that infringements of Articles 35 and 36 of the Integrity Act occur almost exclusively at local level, violations are detected in the good half of the municipalities, with the largest infringement in smaller municipalities. The greatest expert on local self-government, Dr. Stane Vlaj, quote: "We have really too many municipalities, it was a rape of politics over expertise, politics has seen prey in the municipalities." The words of Dr. Vlad. A reduction in the number of congregations is not an intervention of the will of the people — something that counts or could count only if the basic conditions for setting up the congregation are met. The project needs to be implemented properly. The minister imitates the Danish model, where the number of municipalities has more than halved. It is necessary to recognise the positive role of small municipalities, the image of the places has improved, indeed with the European means that were not yet available in the old congregations, but it is necessary to consider how to proceed. The basic needs are now assured, and the municipalities will have to "pull" development. Which municipalities will be able to do so, fully meet the needs and interests of their populations, and the list of tasks is long, for many too long. Let us take time to look at this list of assignments and imagine how small congregations can do this. The municipalities manage municipal property, allow conditions for the economic development of the municipality. Under the law, they perform tasks in the areas of catering, tourism and agriculture. They plan spatial development, plan space interventions, build buildings, and provide public service for building land management. The municipalities set up housing construction conditions and provide for an increase in the rentable social housing fund. The municipalities regulate, manage and care for local public services, promote social services, preschool services, basic child and family protection, for socially disadvantaged, disabled, elderly, air protection, soil, water resources, noise protection, waste collection and disposal and other environmental activities. They regulate and maintain water and energy municipal facilities, create conditions for adult education, provide for the development of the municipality and the quality life of its inhabitants, educational, information and documentation, social, other activities, development of sport and recreation, cultural and artistic creativity, accessibility to cultural programmes, general educational activities, library activities, cultural heritage; builds, maintains and regulates local roads, public roads, recreational other public areas; regulates traffic in the municipality, inspection services; controls local events, community service, municipal service, order in the municipality, fire safety, rescue assistance; organises assistance and resolution for the case of elementary and other accidents; organises funeral, funeral services; determines offences, monetary penalties; inspections, statutes, organisation of municipal administrations and others. A whole range of services to be provided by the municipalities by law. And we ask ourselves, Which congregations are capable of doing so according to law. The project to unite municipalities into larger, stronger development communities is based on the following assumptions: pooling of human resources, organisational, financial resources, increasing the economic efficiency of municipalities and transferring certain tasks of the State to the local community, of course to those municipalities capable of doing so. Project Leader. Leader project – European funds. The ones you know, you know what this is about. And here comes the first anomaly. As a rule, the Leader project is intended for companies, development of the land, economic operators. These are small means where all those who have ambitions to promote development appear, but in the case of a small municipality there is an anomaly, primarily municipalities appear at the invitations and generally also draw all the funds available to them and thus prevent them from applying to the funds of society, institutions and other small development entities in the municipality. It is also one of the anomalies of small municipalities, thus blocking the civil initiative and entrepreneurship of people. There has been a lot of talk, and there is likely to be a talk today that if there were no small congregations, there would be no development and no investment. If we have money, then we have investments, and of course we wonder where that money comes from. I don't think there's a problem here and there's no particular science at the spending level; science is at the level of fund-raising, funding, etc. And who can guarantee that the larger congregations will do worse in this pumping? Properly better, and financial investment will also lead larger congregations as well as smaller and even better. And fund-raising and investment management is, in fact, no great science. Spending the money you have at your disposal isn't. Finally, there is actually a need for a leap in priorities, i.e. slowly crossing the sidewalks, fountains, public lighting, etc. on the real aspect of the quality of living, creating and reviving local communities. You create conditions for the economy, the culture of image, social life, the preservation and creation of jobs, not dead investments, but investments with high added value. And it is obvious that it is not worth the Minister responsible for local self-government to talk about and think about it. In fact, the interpellation's proponents want to sanction the mental delinquency. Just thinking is already a proposal, subject to sanctions. And something else; 80% of Slovenes and Slovenes support the integration of municipalities and the reduction of their numbers. And since we're not in the service of mayors here, but citizens, it's only right to start doing their will. The following findings, however, will be a little shorter and more denser, an indication of an agreement with trade unions where, in accordance with Article 224 of the Labour Relations Act – be careful, we have never before had these solutions in the Labour Relations Act, this solution was found in the Labour Relations Act of last year – namely, that until the agreement of the Collective Contracts Act, the parties can agree on rights and obligations not agreed in the law, but only for members of the parties to the trade unions. and here is the original sin which has led to the fact that in the negotiating process, which was not a government proposal, the unions have demanded and probably also conditioned the conclusion of this agreement by allowing these ratings to be made possible. Of course, in the negotiating process, the Minister considered whether, on the one hand, the savings of EUR 108.6 million amounted to half a million, which the trade unions wanted for 2013 and whether the savings of EUR 411.6 million on the one hand weighed EUR 1 million, such as what the trade unions had conditioned. I don't think there's much logic here, and we have to say that this agreement is good and brings only what legislation allows. If legislation did not allow this to happen, an agreement in this part would not be possible. Moreover, the international organization of work does not oppose or even recommend such a solution, nor does it involve any discrimination. The Act on the Payment of Payment Differences in Wages for the Elimination of the Third Quarter of Differences in Basic Wage. We have a judgment, a model judgment of the High Court and the Supreme Court. The country also went to the audit and was not successful in the Supreme Court. In the rescue action of the public finances, the Minister has achieved a major negotiating achievement: to prevent the collapse of the district courts and their executive departments, we are talking about 174 thousand cases that would have come to court at that time, filled up the working courts and buried the executive courts. And this isn't about whether they're entitled to that money. No, this has already made clear to the higher and also to the Supreme Court. If we let these 147 thousand cases go to court, then we should also know that the state will also pay the costs. If the costs and fees and legal costs are only EUR 100 per case, then we are talking about a million and a half euros here, as much as the state would pay. And it is simply a matter of respecting the decisions of the courts, which is in this country, I hope, a value for all, and there are no problems here. While there were indications that the State should lodge a constitutional complaint with the Constitutional Court, all the lawyers advised; for the first time – the Constitutional Court is not a court instance, for the second time – this would have been doomed to failure and for the third time – this would not have prevented all these lawsuits and executions waiting on the lager, if I had said so. We are also here to save the backlogs that this flood of these belongings would have caused to the court. Here is the question of the colleagues of the applicants, what is their solution – they say nothing about how they would solve this problem, how they would solve this skeleton that fell out of the closet. The findings of the interpolation applicants relating to the Compensation Act to persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations are entirely unfounded. The law represents the implementation of the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights of 26. 6. 2012, published in Kurić et al. v Slovenia. The adoption of this law was necessary, as otherwise serious adverse consequences would arise for Slovenia. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights would remain unfulfilled, which would mean that Slovenia does not respect international obligations and follow-up proceedings before the same court would lead to significantly higher financial consequences than the regulation of the compensation scheme in the internal law of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, our recent coalition partners, I propose that for a moment we stop the debate on deleted citizens and discuss the erased memory. When we concluded our coalition treaty in early 2012, we wrote it down that we will strive for a just and legal state, we have committed ourselves to ensuring respect for human rights, we have written down 'the judiciary must remain independent, we will call for cooperation in the trial to restore the reputation and authority of the judiciary. In doing so, we will contribute to this authority by unconditional respect for judicial decisions." And today you oppose the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Justice, you oppose the execution of the Supreme Court judgment; even more so, you demand the discharge of the minister who has made sure that these judgments are properly implemented! Last but not least, the minister is even supposed to damage state property by buying tickets at Adria Airways with discounts. First of all, discounts, whether they were justified or not, we don't know that yet. All we know is that Adria Airways had an internal audit that was never presented to the public and that Adria Airways herself said that the information that came into the media was ripped from the context and from this audit. The Commission has not yet presented a report and its findings to prevent corruption in the specific case, which is not good. In dealing with corruption prevention before the Commission, the Minister and the politicians exposed should have priority treatment in order to resolve these matters as soon as possible. But this moment we're talking about, we're talking about something that no one knows. We're talking about some supposed cards, and we don't know any background, no content. I am sure that the results of Minister Virant's work would today be seen as important achievements by the government if you participated in this government. Through social dialogue, he achieved a break in the public sector, a cut in wages and some other rights, saving Slovenia half a billion euros in two years, ending a disgraceful chapter deleted in a way that we can manage, and ensuring respect for judicial decisions; domestic and European judicial decisions. In the Civil Gazette, we will not support the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Minister for Home Affairs and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Braniselle. Mr Prevc is next on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Even nine months have passed since the appointment of the new government, and we have already received a second interpolation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are also signatories to the request for the interpretation of the Minister of Interior and local self-government, as it has been shown in recent months that the conduct of Minister Virant could be detrimental to this country. The most in the sky is certainly the minister's plan for the centralisation of Slovenia. Its easy forecast to reduce the number of municipalities in Slovenia came with very strange numbers. So firsthand we were able to learn that we have too many municipalities in Slovenia and that we will save 200 million euros annually by abolishing them. The figures have been thoughtlessly proposed and have no basis in analyses or studies, it turns out a few days later when the competent minister, Dr. Virant, tried to fix the slide and estimated the savings at the annual level by half less, amounts to EUR 100 million. From where did the minister of this issue ask the professional public, asked people questions and wondered in political parties. Finally, with his projected savings, the minister gradually agreed to some EUR 10 million per year and still failed to explain where and how he calculated the data. To explain how the Minister broke down in his calculations. The total appropriate consumption of municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants amounts to just under €200 million. Savings at this level would only be possible if Minister Virant deleted from the map of Slovenia with its inhabitants. We are all aware that there is a need for saving, and that is what we are still aware of in the Slovenian People's Party. In particular, action must be taken where money is spent needlessly and procedures are not rational. From a distance, therefore, such a minister's approach and way of saving a variety in Slovenia would even agree. The very flat-rate populist rumor is obviously working, and that is why it is so important for us in the Slovenian People's Party that the Minister specifies that we all hear where he expects the savings and how much they will be saved. It is very clear that there were no studies here, there were no analyses and calculations. What makes us so sure? Because money for local self-government is primarily intended to support schools, kindergartens, health homes, and cultural homes, not least to provide the socially weak. In the Slovenian People's Party, we ask ourselves and ask ourselves with us a significant part of the Slovenian public, which is the money that you will save, Minister Virant, because you will probably not stop schools, probably not even kindergartens, and the roads will have to continue to be maintained, and the plumbing will also have to be built – I suppose. If you are referring to wage savings, it is difficult for you to convince us in the Slovenian People's Party of your current negotiating successes and your work on the public sector's pay system. You can also bring together ministries and bodies in the structure, and institutions, in the end, no one has lost their jobs, and this is also true for your ministry and will also apply to local self-government. There will be no less work to bring together the congregations, but there will be a lot of bad will and a lot of wasted money and energy for referendums, strategies, meetings and migrations to prove that no concrete savings will be made in the end. The biggest savings, the respected minister, the respected Government, will reduce red tape, shorten all kinds of procedures and bring public services closer to people. This is necessary and meaningful for both municipalities and administrative units and other state bodies. In the Slovenian People's Party we support the reform of local self-government, so we agree that it makes sense to redefine and redefine what tasks to transfer from country to administrative units, which from administrative units to municipalities, perhaps from municipalities to the country. Even if there is a tendency to unite individual congregations or where it would appear that we could work better and more successfully in the congregation, there is nothing wrong with it, but this must be the way of analysis, dialogue, consensus, and above all a professional approach. Reforming local self-government is a long-term project that requires more than one minister and one mandate. We set up municipalities with the help of one of the highest institutions of democracy, with a referendum, and not just so fast, because even though we had only learned democracy in those years, no one thought that the boundaries of the municipalities would be drawn just in an office at some ministry. Dear Minister, all Slovenian municipalities have been established by their citizens, and this constitutional right must also be guaranteed to citizens when changing the areas of these municipalities. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that as a doctor of law you know very well what is going on with the constitutional rights of citizens. The Minister's accession points to the goal that the income of local communities will depend only on the number of inhabitants. And that's where your biggest developmental error lies. What you do, Mr. Secretary, is to directly and indirectly reduce the funds of municipalities for investment. But in doing so, we remind you of caution. The indisputable fact is that the most successful European funds draw on the local communities, namely the municipalities. Approximately 7% of European funds draw on Slovenian municipalities, which is perfectly logical, and local self-government is also dedicated to this. Local people know what they need, they know what they want and they do it with all their heart, let it be in Ljubljana, in Bovec, in Radenci or in Shentrupert. That's why this system doesn't change in the way you set it up. In most municipalities, they are generously generous with many people by drawing European funds where possible, and if you continue to take this investment money away from them, you will save them at the very wrong end. The European funds are the only development money Slovenia will have in the years to come and since this current government is constantly raising our taxes and introducing additional ones, it is clear that we will not even be able to count on any other development money than European money. The Minister's argument that small municipalities are the most indebted municipalities in Slovenia is also a serious misleading of the Slovenian public. After reviewing all the information available, it was quickly clear that small Slovenian municipalities owed their population half the size of the others, large municipalities. As an example, only the Municipality of Ljubljana has almost three times the debt of all municipalities with less than 5,000 people combined, although the total number of people in these municipalities is higher than in Ljubljana. Even more nonsense shows the comparison of Slovenian municipalities with Europeans. In Italy, Austria, Switzerland, Germany, the average number of municipalities is much lower than the national average. On average, 4 000 100 people in the EU are living in the municipality, which is half the population in Slovenia. We have an average of more than 9,000 people per municipality. Well, we don't get off average in this place either. But that Minister Virant is serious about the centralisation of the country, he has not shown only with the intention of abolishing the municipalities. In addition, it has uncompromisingly supported the proposal to reduce appropriate spending and reduce investment money for the municipalities. On the other hand, he also supported the concept of real estate tax, which is now clear to everyone that money from rural areas and from municipal properties, namely schools, kindergartens, cultural homes, will flow directly into the state budget. Not only that, but also his client colleague Mr Sam Omerzel, who has literally halved in the budget for the coming years such modest resources for the maintenance of state roads, has taken care of rural and smaller areas. However, the centralization of Minister Virant has not yet seen the end. He also supported the new proposed electoral system, by which electoral borders should be abolished and Members elected within the constituencies. Let us ask ourselves, ‘ Who is the beneficiary? ’ It is obvious from the outset that only the most recognizable personalities and politicians from the major Slovenian cities will be elected in this way. In order to increase the efficiency of local self-government, the Minister and the municipalities should first establish a constructive dialogue and also include their representatives in the preparation of a local government development strategy in Slovenia. And now to another minister's story. In this year, Dr Virant, under the cover of public sector trade unions, supported a series of harmful agreements that are detrimental to the general budget and, secondly, to public officials. Let us recall the first one to ensure that the number of employees in the public sector will decrease by a maximum of 1% this year and in the future. For a maximum of 1 %! The natural outflow due to retirement is about 3%, maybe a little less. If I say this in a slightly more understandable language, Minister Virant has promised the unions that the public sector will even re-engage. So, if we recalculate, in these two years, at least 5,000 people will be employed in the public administration, thanks to the Minister's agreement with the unions, which means that the state budget will be additionally charged to the 90 million euro circus. So many respectable colleagues and colleagues about saving and saving Minister Virant! The second issue is also a disputed agreement, once again with the unions, that part of unpaid salaries are paid to public servants together with late interest. The late interest is 8.5% and here, respectable, every economy cancels. This is how we continue the practice of putting our country's obligations to the future, even if it will then have to pay substantially more. This is another disputed deal when it comes to unions. According to the new report, public servants who are members of trade unions are more valuable to this country. In particular, both the Minister and the Government recognise 20% of the higher anniversary prize. However, this agreement with the unions would certainly need constitutional review and is only a point in the minister's series of harmful agreements with the public sector unions. According to the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Minister Virant, during his ministry, proved that he was not a suitable person to run the Ministry of the Interior and Public Administration, since that area, in particular the area of local self-government, is not effectively controlled. Its behaviour is damaging to state property, while its conduct is also morally and ethically controversial. In the SLS Group, we will vote as initiators and co-signatories for the discharge of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Prevc. Also on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Apparently, there has been a season of interpolation in our country, as if the atmosphere is not yet tense enough to make it even more tense with such senseless interpretations. Why makes no sense? Because it is one of the main indications of the applicants for this interpretation that Minister Virant has damaged the budget due to the already adopted Act on the Reparation of Damage to Persons who have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations. In the DeSUS Group, we do not agree with these allegations because we believe that Minister Virant has saved our country a lot of money with this law, which could otherwise be allocated to the European Court of Human Rights. Since the legal mills are sometimes unpredictable, there is a considerable possibility that the deleted could achieve far greater compensation than is now agreed in the law, which would make our financial situation worse. We are convinced that the European Court of Justice is revved to see that the Republic of Slovenia has yet another way out of the grips of the recession and that any unexpected financial burden is further threatened by the state budget. At the same time, Minister Virant concluded with this proposal a long-standing agony of people who had been unjustifiably deleted from the register of permanent residents. We cannot agree in any way with the perceptions of the interpellation candidates that there is some flat-rate compensation for all on average. One of the reasons why we supported the Act in the DeSUS Group was that it was the Ministry that ensured that the right to compensation and the inequitableness of the deletion would be assessed from case to case. Let me just remind you that in the DeSUS Group, we have clearly expressed disagreement with the additional privileges of these persons. We also cannot agree with the evaluation of the interpellational candidates that Minister Virant threatens the system of local self-government and consequently reduces the constitutional right provided for in Article 180 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the inhabitants of Slovenia exercise local self-government in municipalities and other local communities. In doing so, the proposer refers to a forecast of the abolition of individual municipalities and to a proposal that is intended to be disproportionately disproportionate, to a greater extent to reduce financial resources for smaller and financially weaker municipalities. In the DeSUS Group, we are surprised to learn that the minister has already been accused of something he has not done in the first place. Indeed, Minister Virant is known as an advocate for the rationalisation of the public sector and also of local self-government and is thinking about encouraging smaller municipalities to unite. It is also true that Minister Virant is famous for presenting very often his views, which are generally popular, but are not always harmonised, whether they are even unacceptable, or at some reasonable time, with some reasonable costs, it is not possible to realize them at all. The idea of abolishing individual municipalities is thus a typical example of the previously described ministry's functioning. In doing so, we must not forget that all of us have a mouthful of rationalization and cost reduction, but when only a small possibility arises that we may feel the consequences of rationalization in our home congregation, we will be awakened by local patriotic feelings that allow for saving, but not in our congregation, but not in this! We have already expressed our support for the rationalisation of local self-government to Minister Virant and Member of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. At the same time, we have clearly and resolutely stressed that we expect rationalisation to take place with due consideration, on the basis of clear criteria on the basis of which the municipalities are to unite. Only convinced that if the congregations were to receive appropriate incentives would they be determined to unite, if not the whole of the congregations, at least to establish common public services. In the DeSUS Group, we expect that, in parallel with the merger of municipalities, the tasks performed by local authorities will also be rationalised and transferred. As an example, the transfer of certain tasks from administrative units to the municipal administration and vice versa should be mentioned. At the same time, we can no longer close our eyes to the fact that analysis of the existing situation shows that a system of funding for municipalities needs a thorough reform. These reforms, however, are intended to be carried out by Minister Virant in dialogue with representative associations of municipalities, as he announced. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we also cannot attach to the opposition's perceptions that he has signed more harmful documents for the Republic of Slovenia with public sector unions, which do not have the appropriate legal basis and are harmful. This statement concerns the signing of the strike agreement and the Agreement on additional measures in the field of salaries and other public sector labour costs to balance public finances between 1 June 2013 and 31 December 2014, which it concluded with representative public sector unions. We agree with Minister Virant's response that the interpellationers have overlooked the huge savings that the agreement brings to the public sector unions. However, the law on the calculation of remuneration imbalances was necessary in any event because of the Supreme Court judgment, which gave rise to the obligation to pay the remaining obligations of the State to public servants. By means of social dialogue, Minister Virant has reached an end to the statement in the public sector and, as a result, a large positive financial impact. This year, it amounts to more than €100 million and in 2014 it amounts to more than €400 million. As the Minister states in his reply to the interpolation, the strike agreement and the trade union agreement imposed emergency measures that ensured a reduction of the budget deficit and thus a step towards balancing public finances. Finally, let me touch on the recently adopted law on how to pay back the third quarter of the abolition of salary imbalances. This proposal also ensures equal treatment of all beneficiaries in the view of the DeSUS Group and prevents additional costs of judicial or enforcement proceedings. We also agree with the Minister's assessment that failure to comply would constitute gross ignorance of the rule of law, judicial decisions and the division of power. Moreover, in this place Minister Virant even deserves commendation, since the limited judgment of the Supreme Court concerned only part of the public servants and only you could get the payment through execution immediately. All other public servants, who would otherwise also be entitled to payment, would only have obtained this right after the completion of the judicial, enforcement procedure. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia will not support the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Honourable Minister of the Interior and Vice-President of the Slovenian Government, Dr Gregor Virant! Yes, you are also Vice-President of the Slovenian Government. We're both public, we're both political, so we're functionaries, and in fact, in our lives, there's no line between public and private, and that's probably what we both know. And ladies and gentlemen, as long as we have a country called the Republic of Slovenia and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and as long as we have Article 118 of the Constitution, which has the title of interpolation, we will have interpretation in the National Assembly until then. And everyone, led by the Prime Minister of the Government, who today is defaming the interpretation – I will not continue this sentence! [[…]] I will not continue because I do not want to be as grave as President Alenka Bratušek, who has been rounding up, brutally attacking the opposition, wants to silence her. Respectable coalition, you have all the options, you have the infrastructure, you type 40 thousand signatures, you vote a referendum to remove the opposition by the end of the term of office [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Not bad. [[…]] Of course, because I know this, I read your thoughts the KPK has already been removed, you remove the opposition and then it will be as Madam President has asked: "Let us work!" [[…]] On my table, Mr. Minister, since the adoption of the government document, the National Reform Programme 2013-2014 has also been a Stability Programme, a government programme, a recommendation from the Council, a European Commission document, a Council Recommendation on Slovenia’s 2013 National Reform Programme and a Council opinion on Slovenia’s 2012-2016 stability programme. Also on my table are the EU's recommendations for individual Member States, where Member States' redfields list the necessary activities to be carried out by Member States. Mr. Minister, let's start with local self-government or the reform of local self-government. Nowhere in these Bible - based documents should the Bible be even more appropriate for this government, nor should the need for a change or reform of local self - government be mentioned. Well, let me tell you something. New Slovenia is for the reform of local self-government, but not in this way, Mr. Minister, as you announced when, in fact, on the day that Mr. Muscolo's package fell, you said on the same day that you had a coalition agreement that you were going to reform local self-government under the title of almost half of Slovenian municipalities. No concept, no calculations! We, as you may recall, talked about this before the parliamentary holidays, when I was just asking you, in the context of the question of parliament, in what way. We also asked the Ministry of Finance whether it had any calculations. We are interested in financial effects – there was no answer from the Ministry of Finance or from your side. I believe you probably wanted to make a very good story like today's President of the Government, who says that if you ask people if we have too many municipalities in Slovenia, 80% of them say: of course. Look, ladies and gentlemen! This is such manipulation with the citizens! It's not happening anywhere in the world. Why, then, did you not at least ask whether you were in favor of abolishing your congregation? No, that's not it! Because probably at least 80% of the people are also for their own congregation not to be abolished. This is similar to what I listened to a representative of the eminent representative of this government a few days ago, who said very correctly that people have been asked – not only in Slovenia, across the EU – whether you trust EU institutions. No! No! Do you believe in EU institutions more than in domestic institutions? In particular, the Slovenian answer is: yes. Sixty percent said yes. So much for these measures of public opinion now, and I ask you very much, let's stop this manipulation once and for all. Indeed, the President of the Government has disappointed me terribly when she comes with such initials before this esteemed assembly, if he is even respected. I would also like, ladies and gentlemen, to postpone this meeting today and to talk here today about how the banks will be rehabilitated – indeed, it is okay that people must first learn through the media, but why are we here? Is it just so that we are the least valuable institution in this country that we can protest in front of this house? Instead of protesting somewhere else, where there is a key source of problems or where there are key sources of problems in this country. As far as local self-government is concerned, I believe, Mr Minister, that you are very well aware of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Maybe why are we New Slovenia - Christian Democrats so attentive to local self-government? Not just because we both know that this system is working out pretty well for us today. Today, some of you have already spoken, say, colleague Braniselj, quite so theoretically, but look, my two neighboring congregations are one of the smallest, one of the smallest – I come from the municipality of Črenšovci – but they are the most successful: one after using European funds per head, per capita, the other in general very successful – you may have listened to a Sunday night interview with this mayor. Great mayor. Of course! And here is the problem or the essence of it all, if the municipality has good management, the mayor, the administration; of course, that the mayor knows with the municipal council, then it is not, the devil that this municipality would not be successful. Suddenly set the criteria for 5,000 people What about that congregation that today has 4 thousand 990 and has good demographics, they have 20 pregnant women and will jump the limit of 5,000 tomorrow.What are you gonna do with them? [[…]] It's the wrong criteria! As for the financing of municipalities, Mr Minister, you have been in the government 2004-2008, when you know that we have made a very good, drastic, positive improvement in the funding of municipalities. Some rural congregations received up to 25% more money. True, but then we missed some. I listened to you carefully, but you correctly mentioned that some of the situations were overlooked. Why, for example, is the Municipality of Gornji Petrovci in charge? We need to see why. Because it has many miles of municipal roads, scattered settlements, these children may also need to be trained and the enormous cost of maintaining roads is paid for the transport of children to school and so on and so forth. It's probably the management's fault, too. Local self-government, the European Charter on Local Self-Government, all of this is somehow based on the principle of subsidiarity. I recommend that I lend you a book entitled The Value of Christian Democracy. Norbert Neuhaus and Horst Langes wrote it. Allow me, for all of us, it will be very useful, also for some former mayor: "The principle of subsidiarity is the least known among fundamental political and social principles. You could say it's almost unknown. This is certainly the case with the word itself, for it is not clear at first sight what it actually means. Subsidiaren means to help, to support. Freedom, equality, brotherhood were the slogans of the French revolution some 200 years ago. This password occurs in such or other forms in virtually every political programme, in cities that speak of fundamental values. For example, the political programme of the German Christian Democratic Party, the CDU, was based on three words: freedom, justice and solidarity. Something similar, but still slightly different, we can also read about German socialists: freedom, equality, solidarity. For both parties mentioned above, the concept of subsidiarity does not appear in the first places. So this principle isn't that important? On the contrary! The principle of subsidiarity is the principle of freedom of social communities and marriage for the personal freedom of each individual. For what remains of personal freedom if there is no freedom of family, freedom of entrepreneurship or freedom of culture?" So much for now. Mr Minister, I hope that I will have the opportunity to make a few further calls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u33	Thank you very much, a representative of the proposer. As previously presented, we have concluded earlier by presenting the views of the groups of Members, and your introduction has already opened the debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. The first word is Mrs. Sasha Kos, and then the mags are prepared. Katarina Hotchevar and behind her Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mrs. Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I come from one of the larger municipalities, the Municipality of Domžale, and I must tell you that I have been in the Municipality of Domžale for 12 years. In this world, we also worked for all congregations that later developed, listened to them when they had certain problems, and when the congregations began to divide, some even opposed to secession. So we have several smaller congregations that at that stage were not for secession, but were lobbying as they were. As you know, in the past there were mayors in the National Assembly who had certain interests and so on. I'm going to focus on the 1st interpolation point on local self-government. We are all aware that something must be done in this area. We have 212 municipalities in our small Slovenia. In the past, as you know, we had about 60, everything worked, everything worked, everything developed. More than half of these have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, some of whom do not have a complete primary school, health care and health care station, banks, post office and so on. Most municipalities are therefore too small to have their own sources of funding that are independent of the state budget. Since they are too small, they are not able to take on more complex tasks, since they will also quickly exceed the boundaries of the individual congregation in addition to the required expertise. And I wouldn't say everything about local self-government is wrong, not at all. The fact is that much has also been done in the congregations, but I want more done. We are all in Slovenia and we all work for Slovenia. Reform is therefore necessary, but this reform must go in the direction of redefining the competences of small and large and urban municipalities, in the direction of transferring certain powers from country to municipality and in the direction of changing the funding system of municipalities, which will not encourage the pursuit of further fragmentation, but will promote the process of pooling or connecting small municipalities. However, this reform is by no means a novel of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which proposes the discharge of the Minister of Home Affairs. Although the Novela was published on the Ministry’s websites, it was neither in the Government nor in the legislative process, since the introduction of real estate tax for any major intervention in the financing or organisation of local self-government is by no means appropriate time. The government has already adopted the starting points for the preparation of a strategy for the development of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia. There is more than enough time for talks and arrangements to prepare for the reform. If I take this whole thing away, I think that even in the past, when we had more money than we have today, 60 municipalities worked and produced results. Let's put all of this at some common ground and help Slovenia out of the crisis. We have already heard about the results that are encouraging today, and please work on it. Interpellation is totally unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, hello! I think today's interpretation of hair is the most attractive interpretation of all 40 as we witnessed them in Slovenia alone. Three sins are reported to the minister and, on top of that, because they do not believe in the obvious, they add a populism theme about air tickets, which has already been presented hundreds of times and has been strongly rejected by Minister Virant at least so many times. But let's do it in a row. Discontinuation of the congregations, you say, interpellationers. Never did Minister Virant use this term in this topic, but he always talked about association and cooperation, but he did, because words such as cooperation and tolerance are not close to you as you do not want to hear it. He has always stressed for the area of reform of local self-government that we will follow the four P method or four steps: slowly, prudently, prudently and gradually. You're interpreting to the minister because he pointed out that he was thinking that after 20 years, as far as we have in Slovenia, if we say, it's somehow local self-government as we have it, it's time to think about it. The international institutions have pointed to too much fragmentation, and since that year, we have established as many as 65 new congregations. Minister Virant's proposal or his thinking and the ideas he has given go in the direction of a stronger local community, which is why you can only oppose such a proposal by those who wish to submit and rape the municipalities in accordance with Ljubljana's decisions and money. Only stronger municipalities can resist the centralisation or state of Ljubljana. Harmful consequences – trade unions. This is, in fact, almost a comical proposal or an obvious one. You can see that there is no legal basis for the solution that Minister Virant has reached with the unions. But this legal basis is in Article 224 of the Labour Relations Act proposed by your Mr. Vizjak in the National Assembly. Thus, we know that the agreement was necessary for the sustainability of public finances, for a public sector strike to be interrupted, for a police statement that Minister Virant achieved 100 million savings in 2013 and for 2014 400 million savings. Now tell me, which of the interpolation investors thinks he is such a hero that he actually believes that he would save the country more than that amount at such a record time and avoid public sector strikes at the same time? If I go to the third episode of Burlesque. You report to the Minister that he respected the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. I think it's hard for something like this to happen in Afghanistan or North Korea. Those who defend the view of human rights in such a way that they are only given on paper, and in fact depend on every once-in-a-lifetime ruling elite, I suggest that you take into your hands again or for the first time the text that came into existence in 1948 is called the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Commitment to the European idea, respected colleagues and colleagues, is not only support for the resolutions of the European People's Party, but also respect for the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights! All I can say about the flight manifest is that I'm waiting for someone to be found and asking Minister Virant to step down because he was too bad in kindergarten. I wonder if the next opposition project will be that the minister bought a tie with a discount and that he is guilty because he did not demand a higher price. It's a mock-up of an eyewitness with these airline tickets. The minister put them on the table in front of the press, in front of the public, brought all the cards, all the bills, and that from when he wasn't even an official. I don't even know what else to say about this topic. The minister also presented everything in a transparent manner. Your findings, your appearances, in effect, only convince me that Minister Virant is a great man and a politician. Even at the most closed client meetings, he will never talk over any of you or anyone who is not present. He's always focused on solutions, always on what we're going to do, and not on how we're going to do it. I've never received instructions from him on how to vote on a matter. He always tells me to think with my head and vote on my conscience. His only questions to me are how my children are and how my Zagoryans are. And because of this different policy and approach, you're afraid of it. You are afraid that the policy of reason, tolerance and non-exclusion, which Minister Virant specialises, will prevail. Because in this case, respected colleagues and colleagues would lose the opportunity to vote in the division of citizens to the left and right, to the red and white. Minister Virant swore eight months ago in the National Assembly to respect the constitutional order, to work on his conscience and to work with all his strength for the well-being of Slovenia. I think Minister Virant is doing all this. He did an extraordinary job in a good six months. While you listed some of his important achievements in this interpretation, you forgot to report on the accelerated fight against economic crime and corruption. During this period, the number of crimes investigated has increased by as much as 60%. Since spring, we have considered a whole series of laws in the National Assembly, proposed by Minister Virant, from access to information of a public nature to the Administrative Procedure Act; in short, a whole bunch of smart proposals that make or represent a step towards greater order in our country. Allow me, after all, to touch some of the readings or what you have outlined in your definitions. First-signed Matthew Tonin made me laugh a little bit. On the one hand, it is for adapting public administration to the financial capabilities of the State, but it is not on the case of municipalities. Matthew Tonin is for respect of judgment, but not in case of deletion. I could continue in this style, and Matthew Tonin is against the privileges, but for what pension he can vote for. I could go on like this, but I don't think it makes any sense. Minister Virant has rejected all the evidence in a sovereign and professional manner, so today's presence of Members in the National Assembly shows that you obviously have not taken this view seriously and you do not believe it yourself, so you can't expect us to believe in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Matthew Tonin. Mr. Horvath, are you as a proponent? Then, of course. Here you go, mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u38	Dear colleague Hotchevar! I very kindly ask you not to twist your words or point out what I did not say or admit that you misunderstood me. When I said that public administration and municipal administrations should adapt to our public capabilities, I also offered solutions. I said that I object to such a concept as the Minister introduces, this is to abolish the municipalities, but I proposed a solution, this is a compulsory community administration that would reduce the costs of municipal administrations, but at the same time maintain the level of the current local democracy. So, Mrs Hočevar, please, if you are correct and if you say that, for example, I did not agree with the Minister's concept, but you add this to me, that I have said the solution. That, I think it's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u39	Thank you very much. As a proposalr, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague mag. Katarina Hočevar – burlesque up or burlesque down. Look, you mentioned the airline tickets and you told Dr. Gregor Virant as a lawyer that he showed the tickets, explained it 100 times and so on. But it is something interesting; I listened very carefully to the Minister when he orally presented his defence, if I may say so, and he spent a lot of time promoting his work, his achievements and so on. He talked a lot about the police, about the achievements of the police. In the text of the interpolation, the police are mentioned only once, in relation to the investigation of airline tickets, as a minister in conflict of interest. I will ask specific questions to make it easier for the Minister to answer. I have specific questions for the Minister, although he has already answered about the flight manifests, everyone can read these five lines, but as I said in the beginning, Mr. Minister, we, when we decided on a political path, on a political career, probably had to look back a little bit, and we are also aware that we were public officials working for the common good, that we were representatives of the people because we were elected in free elections, and I am really interested; have you ever received airline tickets with a special discount from Adrie Airways? Look, we haven't seen these maps, at least the opposition, or at least the New Slovenia Group – what do we have, what information? Median, if not demented by the people listed. Let's say 24 hours: "Virant: Adria sent an offer, I paid the ticket. 9 May 2013 The electronic tickets that Gregor Virant used in the story of cheap flights with Adrio Airways wanted to wash his name would prove that for at least two reasons he received a great discount, and Virant denies to influence flight prices." I can even believe it didn't affect him, but Adria Airways, according to a former dean of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana, said here that people can travel, so before a recent meeting of one of the political coalition parties, Adria Airways is here so that people can travel, so it's like it's not an economic society, and because Dr. Gregor Virant is not someone else, we all know him in Slovenia, but maybe this Adria Airways said, "Well, this is a nice gentleman, so let's make one offer with a nice discount, with a nice discount." And a moral person should say that he does not want to pay as much as an anonymous citizen of the Republic of Slovenia or we should consider that all citizens who want to fly with Adrio Airways will receive such discounts as discounts on airline tickets as they should – I don't know – as Mr Virant should have received them. I'm here to make a point, my respectable colleague. You've opened that question. Today it has been said that stronger congregations will be a better interlocutor with the country. Hello!Oh, my God! Good morning!Oh, my God! However, the Community and the Community of Municipalities are not able to reach the President of the Government, with regard to the Real Estate Tax Act, and it is not invited to the expert group that Mr Minister for Home Affairs has now appointed or defined for the intervention of the profession. Perhaps they will be invited, but perhaps — at least that is the way it is heard or read in the media — they will be able only to listen to expert discussions. And since Mr Branisl has already been quoted today as the greatest expert on local self-government, which I agree with, then we must be honest. Then we must read everything that this gentleman has said that matters. Also current for this moment and current for the purpose of the Minister. And he says, "At the recent round table, IFMS..." First, I would like to acknowledge to the IFMS Institute that it has organised this round table. I understand that this institute has not been set up for either but for the other solution; but it has in good practice had this for several years to organise thinking, brainstorming on the important issues of this society. And he also organized a round table on the topic of the Reform of Local Self-Government. And I quote Dr. Stannet Vlad. "At the recent round table of IFMS, experts Dr. Šmidovnik, Dr. Grad, Dr. Igličar, Dr. Milonovič and I, Dr. Stane Vlaj, rejected the Minister's proposal as an unconstitutional procedure for the abolition of municipalities. While the Minister likes to change his statements, he has agreed on a longer deadline for the territorial changes of the municipalities and is increasingly calling for the assistance of the profession. This time is the least appropriate for this measure, and because of the crisis, no municipalities in Europe have been abolished." That is why I previously referred to Slovenian Government documents – reform programmes, etc. I'm continuing with Dr. Vlad's quote. "In any case, there is also a finding that they can be good or good. Economically efficient both large and small municipalities or not sufficiently efficient one and the other." Once again, New Slovenia is for the reform of local self-government. But now we have a lot of experience and we know where the problems are. In the National Assembly, you will be able to find a quality research assignment in connection with congregation oversight. It is true that we must correct a lot of things; it is time for reflection, but I also agree with experts this time, especially if we are going to reform local self-government, then we are not just talking about the lowest level, just about municipalities, then we must also talk about the second level of local self-government – this is about the provinces. Then, in this context, we must also talk about reform of administrative units. I'm sure it's a project that goes beyond a term of office over one term. The four "p-ji" that means one "p" means slowly. Dr. Virant said that if we succeed – and I don't know exactly how – these congregations would be united, so I won't say delete until the next local elections, which will be held in the fall of 2014, are said to be in a bad year. Is that slow, and that's thoughtful? The next time I answer, I will also say some numbers about Slovenian municipalities and municipalities of neighbouring countries and perhaps those municipalities in those countries in which we sometimes like to flirt. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic gives the floor to the debate, to this end, please prepare Mrs Maja Dimitrovski, then Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Mirko Brulc, and then Mr Bojan Starman. First of all, Mrs. Iva Dimic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, Minister, you are the most visible, highest public figure in Slovenia. You're a top-ranking officer, Minister. In Novi Slovenija we have high standards for these top officials in Slovenia. They have to be careful what they say and how they say it. Your statement that you are planning to reduce the number of municipalities – and that about 100 were dialed – upset the Slovenian public. There has been widespread generalization of what and how you are dealing with this pressing problem, which citizens themselves voted in individual referendums in individual municipalities. With that statement, you let yourself know what you think of public local self-government. It needs to be stopped. This was heard by all the media, all the newspapers, radio sets, and television. I would like to tell you why some of them came 10 years ago, some of them later, to the point that they want to be independent and want to drive their own politics. Maybe for one of us it's already a long way off or even forgotten. I just want to remind them that certain places have been forgotten from the centers of power or from the centers of management and that somehow the human river has been applied to them to be far away from the eyes, far away from the heart. And this gave rise to a desire for new congregations in these remote places, which, like all of them, had the right to develop evenly. The abolition of municipalities would certainly increase regional differences in Slovenia, which, by allowing some small municipalities to become independent, somehow eased these differences. I don't know if in politics we all know that Slovenian municipalities are today a driving force for development. In this financial and economic crisis, municipalities are the only ones that can still invest in larger projects and infrastructure. All too often we forget about all these numbers that we have heard today, including other aspects of the congregation’s importance. For example, on the social fabric applied by the municipalities by linking, promoting and co-financing various societies and the local community as a whole. I believe that all things cannot be financially evaluated, but for the existence of the Slovenian people, for the existence of this society and local self-government, this is of exceptional importance, which cannot be evaluated financially. If you actually admit it or not, the abolition of municipalities has already begun, including by reducing investment funds from 4% to 2%. These are resources for infrastructure and utilities. What's next? By lowering the average from 536 to 525 for 2015, this is true in the Budget Implementation Act, but the average costs for citizens are covered, these are homes for the elderly, schools, kindergartens. This way it can only be said that kindergartens after 2015 will be able to be encouraged precisely because the municipalities will no longer have to contribute to the subsidisation of kindergarten payments. And this, in addition to all these measures that this government has taken, and what we have already warned about in the real estate tax, will again turn into citizens. To those who should be protected. And to touch on what bothered me today in the National Assembly. The Minister prepared a programme or rehabilitation according to Danish principle. Love Slovenia, where we came from. The local community will be governed by Danish principles, social legislation by Scandinavian countries, and justice will be governed by Iceland and Ireland, agriculture, I do not know by which. Yeah, where did we come from? I think there's enough knowledge in this country, enough desire to get things right. I would expect the Minister as the highest official in the country to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u43	Thank you very much. He has the floor as a proposalr, Mr Franci Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u44	Nice greetings, respectable vice president, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, all others present! We are talking about a very serious topic, the interpretation of the Minister, who has to a large extent earned the most, at least as far as the Slovenian People's Party is concerned, due to a number of measures in the field of local self-government. Let me point out that it wasn't just some thinking this year, but there was something more going on this year. Thinking was expressed about the appropriate number of Slovenian municipalities, and consequently about the half of the number of municipalities. The Law on the Financing of the Communities was further issued in public debate. This is one of the procedures which is the normal procedure for the adoption of the law, and has apparently been corrected twice. At the same time, however, a proposal came forward for the establishment of administrative thefts. In this country, real estate law was adopted during the summer and in the autumn; and also when the budget was adopted, the balance for 2014 and the budget for 2015 was adopted, the Law on the implementation of the budget was adopted, which again took away funds from the municipalities. We can say calmly that a number of events that have shown on one side the Minister's view of this area, while those who propose this interpretation, are also seen as a view of the coalition. From the debates that follow today, they point largely to a very different approach, to a very different understanding, to the need for local self-government or what local self-government we want in the Republic of Slovenia. All of these debates, which are based all the more on these four "p's", which have already been said today – slowly, prudently, thoughtfully, gradually – have been or will not have been a lot of unrest in the Slovenian space. Today, we have heard in the introduction that a public opinion survey has been carried out and that 80% of people have been found to be reducing the number of municipalities. Colleagues and colleagues, let's ask what percentage would be if Slovenians and Slovenians asked what would happen if they gave the number of Members in half. Do you think it would be 80%, or would it be more? What would be the public opinion if we even said that we should end Parliament and so on? In these public research, it is always necessary to be very careful, and above all, I am afraid of something that has certainly been happening in this case; some of the concerns, the arguments that have been used in the argument, have been well launched in order to create a public opinion. The so-called opinion makers are very well-known in this space and the people involved in this to first create a public opinion on which they can then be adopted. Some decisions from the majority public opinion are already quite familiar, I fear that this is not the right way for us to take decisive solutions such as local self-government. I’m afraid of being created in this country — we don’t want — some opposition or two camps: large congregations, small congregations, rural areas, urban environments. It's like we don't need each other, and it's like congregations are separated by whether they work well or if they work badly if they're large by population, if they're large. But the truth is completely different. We know well-functioning, successful small congregations, medium, large and vice versa. Today, too, it has been said that to a large extent it depends on the group of people who lead these congregations. Even today, numbers have been given regarding the number of employees in the congregation, and what an anomaly is being created in this area. Let us be so honest and say what all one ballast has brought into law and what all these congregations have to do — like on a national level. How many congregations have managed to draw on European funds in these years, how many people are needed for these matters. Let us be more objective in this direction, more truthful than these statements show. When I talk about creating a public opinion, I am referring to a public opinion that has first started to develop around how much money is saved here. It was quickly rejected that about 100 congregations, where some 300,000 people reside, would spend almost as much money on basic activities. Finally, it was estimated that the functional part for mayors, directors, saints somewhere at the level of EUR 10 million, not EUR 200 million, as was said at the outset. I think there's been some kind of thesis here that really doesn't hold, and it's simply not worth seriously considering. The talk was about the abolition of congregations with fewer than 5,000 people. These municipalities have an adequate expenditure of 197 million about, that is, 18% of the total eligible consumption. On the other hand, they have 15.5% of the population, slightly smaller, because they are municipalities that have almost 32% of the area. And so that all these roads are slippery, arranged, that all the infrastructure is built, that children are transported to primary schools, they are more expensive. These areas will be more expensive even if they are united into larger congregations. It's inappropriate here to talk quickly and casually about big savings. It is interesting that 15.5% of these people, about 20% of the people, may also be living here in order to keep the congregations from being united. Let me say it myself, as colleagues have already mentioned, that I am sure that the reform of local self-government is necessary; but certainly not by starting and driving it in the way that it has been tried in this case. The second thesis was about the indebtedness of small congregations. Again, several cases of municipalities with some 100 or about thousands of people in debt were proposed. Out of a thousand, a thousand 500 or some even up to 2,000 euros per capita. The figures that are exact talk about this: for the first time, that Slovenian municipalities are indebted on average to EUR 396 per capita, that is, 805 million at the level of the whole of Slovenia. Although this is the data for 2011, there have been no significant changes in last year, and for this year there is no current data. It is very interesting to see how many congregations are in charge. In all municipalities, there are up to 5,000 people, as we said before; and they have some 300,000 people living in such municipalities; and they have a bad 73 million debt, which is the figure for the end of 2011 or 230 EUR per capita. The average, as we said before, is about EUR 400 per capita. By comparison, since Ljubljana is comparable to all Slovene municipalities, Ljubljana has three times the length of Ljubljana itself. If I don't even dispute whether there is too much debt in Ljubljana, I won't judge it. I am talking about being honest with these comparisons and figures that generate public opinion. I think that these municipalities have very much settled obligations towards operators, and there are also no mega-Romanian investments that would leave some serious debtors and pass these debts into public debt, as is the case with others; but that is another topic. This argument was also really created in the form of launching this public opinion, which was previously created and the truth is completely different. There is also the truth about the average number of comparable municipalities across Europe. We see again that Slovenia, with the poor 10,000 inhabitants, is the seventh country in the EU-27, with the average Slovenian municipality. We have 9 000 700 people, and the other countries have: Germany 6 000 600, Austria 3 000 500 people per municipality. Again, this issue does not speak of the Slovenian municipalities being one of those who would be on a European scale among the smaller ones. It is true, however, that the process of the second stage of local self-government has not been carried out, in order to have in the Slovenian space also regions where these powers would be conferred between municipalities, regions and the country. As for the procedures for the reorganisation of local self-government, I was with my colleague Brulec and Mr Willi Trofenik in the previous term in the delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia when we visited Denmark and looked at the Danish case. I had a chance to see what they did in Denmark. It is right that we all know that the Danish reform of local self - government went this way, that at first in 1848 some more than 1 thousand 700 congregations were established, that in 1970 this number was reduced to 300 congregations and that today there are poor 100 congregations, 97 congregations. The process of reforming local self-government was decided in 2001 and concluded in 2006. More than 600 public events have been where they have explained what needs to be done, what are the plans, what is going to happen, and what a different reform of local self-government will be. Let us be so precise that we can also say about the Danish case that it was not just about changing the number of municipalities, but it was also about changing local self-government to a large extent. They also reformed the provinces, going from 13 provinces to 5. The provinces were deprived of a type of jurisdiction, leaving only the maintenance of highways and hospitals, clinics, and that the rest is now part of public administration funding in the municipalities. 38% of public consumption in Denmark is at the level of municipalities, compared to 12.13 in Slovenia. And I personally estimate that we, in 1996, at the end of 1995, started such a reform, and now this is 18, 19 years behind us. I think it's really time for a thorough reflection, to do an analysis of what's good, what's bad, and simply to find progress in the development of local self-government. I am firmly convinced that this is not such a flat-rate abolition of the number of municipalities, but to a large extent a reflection of which, under the previously mentioned principle of subsidiarity, from the state level to some relevant level. I am very much in favour of this thesis on the maintenance of the congregations through the common municipal administrations and that part of the powers should be transferred to this form. Perhaps that is why it is the territorial size of administrative units, the appropriate units for a transitional period, to carry out an entire type of jurisdiction for which the state is now competent. I firmly believe that the competences of the social, labour market, unemployment, spatial planning, economic development, agriculture belong to this level where, together with the mayors, someone from the administrative unit would talk and simply set the whole development for that area that would be bigger. The other things would have been going back to the municipal level, and they would have moved as many of these things from the country as I had already said to the city level. And I myself have been an instigator that, in parallel with this debate on interpretation, we have also presented an initiative for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government, which we finally held a week ago, after 1 month of waiting. I must say that I was disappointed, with what difficulty some of the five afternoons continued to sit on this committee, where we wanted to make our proposals well-meaningly, and finally waited for what we wanted to say to those who were proposing to reject the conclusions and that the matter could continue after a coordinated flow – a current where there was not much involvement of the opposition. We have proposed that we discuss local self-government in such a way as to prepare a local self-government strategy together – all Members and Members or representatives of all parliamentary parties, all three associations of municipalities on the one hand, on the other hand, the professional public and not least the Ministry responsible. There have already been cited some legal experts in this area, and all those reports need to be read. They clearly note, like many others, that consideration is needed as far as the number of municipalities is concerned. They also make it very clear that these proposals were so quick to make, thoughtless, incomplete, sometimes even misleading, populist. It was also interesting to listen to Dr. Cyril Ribičič, who openly admitted in the debate in the State Council: "When the congregations were formed, I was one of the biggest opponents of these congregations. I can tell you honestly that I was surprised and that these congregations have more than met their expectations. I think it's right that they were founded." That's Mr. Fish's word. Those who appreciate these words, even more, I think it is right that you hear his statements as well. And in this part I am truly sorry that there are no such proposals to accept that for such reforms as the reform of local self-government, we do not really take up enough time and go along with all these criteria slowly and prudently, prudently, gradually. It is really necessary to do so and it is not meant to do so within 2, 3 months to bring the coalition into line, then it is necessary to invite once again the Association of Congregations, when it seems to him that it is right for the artistic impression and to mediate into public debate, to conclude and end. In Denmark, as I have already said, this was how a group was formed, as we proposed in this proposal. They took five years to identify themselves, and in 5 years, the congregations decided voluntarily to unite with greater powers. I suggest, Minister, that in this case you act in this way and that in this way we also really take a step forward in the functioning of local self-government. Because after all these years, when we have really, with the help of small, large, medium-sized municipalities, put development in Slovenia at a much higher level in the area of local and municipal infrastructure development, the time comes for joint larger projects, which will also have greater development momentum on the one hand, and on the other hand an attractive stay for people so that there will be no pressure on the centres. As we have heard in Denmark, we have also heard in Brussels at the conclusion of the European Parliament's previous mandate, which is today one of Europe's biggest problems. Migration of people to the metropolis and depopulation of the countryside. Such measures as those of the law or of the law. in those ways, they're just the opposite. I mentioned the area of funding for municipalities earlier. Yes, the Law on the Financing of Municipalities was put into public debate. It's been fixed twice. Obviously, it was estimated that such a person could not go through, and it was discovered that something was wrong with him. And what exactly did this law, which you, from your ministry, put into public debate, contain? This law contained, in a row, the municipality of Solčava with approximately 30% of the funds to be Bovec at 26.45 to be Jezersko at 21%, Osilnica 18, Bohinj 16%; Church, Loški brook, Kranjska Gora, Montenegro at Koroškem, Luča – these are the municipalities that would be deprived of a strong over 10% and beyond. On the other hand, they acquire the following municipalities: Škofljica 4%, Trbovlje 4%, Slovenj Gradec, Jesenice, Piran, Koper, Novo mesto, Murska Sobota, Maribor, Ptuj, Domžale, Kranj, Celje, Ljubljana, Velenje – up to 7, 8%. This is the intention that has been enshrined in the first issue of the law, which is now being corrected, because it has been found that it will be very difficult to go to Parliament with such a procedure to defend such changes. We all know what Slovenia looks like. I don't know if what was written is right, that this would be a change in the financing of Slovenia and this would be the right way. But since you have found that this is not going through the Law on the Financing of the Communities, obviously also with your consent, you are responsible for local self-government, have taken a step in this direction through the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. This part takes up 2% of the eligible consumption in 2014 and an additional 2% in 2015. So we come from 6% before the ZUJF, from now in force 4 in this year to 2; and from 0% in 2015. What does that mean in practice? When you take 2%, it means that Solčava will have 11.5% less than or 200 euros per capita than it is now. That Bovec will again have less than 10%, 100 euros. And once again, they come into the same line as this congregation, which, after the current system of funding because of their vastness, has so much more funding in such areas, a special supplement for these reasons. And like the congregations that I mentioned earlier, they are on the other side of those who lose the least, for then no one gains under this law. These intentions and warnings that we wanted to give in this debate, the interpretation, are going in this direction, that we firmly believe that this is not the right direction of development, and that we need to discuss this thoroughly and assess on the basis of the analysis how to proceed. On my part, too, Minister, because of your passive role in the adoption of the Real Estate Tax Act. With this law, even in constitutional judgment, we will want to prove it, the sovereignty of local self-government is really at stake, and especially financial power is being taken away from the municipalities, as the loss of this financial income from this title is EUR 30 million. More importantly, these are the funds that the municipalities will pay as a tax on infrastructure or facilities owned by them — schools, kindergartens, health homes, and the like. This is also the true policy of the municipality, since by these means or by this measure, which has been through compensation for the building land to be translated through the Real Estate Act, the second form, the municipalities have so far had this opportunity to carry out settlement investment and similar policies in their municipalities. In this part, I think it's that obvious, too. I would no longer talk about the other perceptions that have been in this debate. I assume that the interpretation will not succeed in having sufficient votes, so I want you to take these discussions, which are substantive, well-intentioned for the development of local self-government, as a guide to your work; and at the same time, I would like you to take the challenge of participating in this important and specific area for the development of Slovenia in the future. I am firmly convinced that this level – the level of functioning of the municipalities today is significantly better than what we are doing at the state level. There are people closer to making decisions, where they are closer to controlling their citizens and citizens. I think we need to go into these changes and reorganise local self-government in this direction so that we can share our powers to the lower levels. What is the right form, whether we are able and able to accept the provinces, would be the best. But if this is not real, let us make an effort to put forth the tools by which we will somehow interest the congregations in a joint work, a joint act. I believe that in the terms of office, 2, 3 such works may also come to the realization that a limit can be deleted. It is important that, today, at a time when, in the next two years, even with the help of the municipalities, we should draw on a number of European funds for which the municipalities are good consumers. On the other hand, these congregations need to be trained to draw as much funding as they can for the congregations in the next financial perspective. And so such an intervention, where we would deal with ourselves, would prevent people in the individual congregation, in neighbouring congregations around merger initiatives, for referendum beliefs, completely depressed time. I think we need to get to the other end of this thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u46	Thank you very much. A real parliamentary masterpiece! It appears that we will be discussing for 16 hours a text that was not an official proposal, which has never come to the government or to the National Assembly, a draft work which is discussed in expert groups, which I have never, as an official proposal from the Ministry, or signed. It is no wonder that then people walk with a banner in front of parliament, that Members should be given to the minimum. Really, if that's how it's discussed. The strategy for the development of local self-government will come to the National Assembly. I have promised you this, I have said this repeatedly today in public that we will gradually and prudently go into reforming local self-government, not on our noses and not overnight. Once the strategy is on the agenda of the National Assembly, we will have unlimited time to discuss this. First at the work body, then at the plenary session, and then it would be time for such debates. Magari, if we make two sessions on this subject. And now there's not even a draft for that. Nothing, no official document on local government reform. The only sin you're talking about is that I've given my opinion in which direction this should go. And that opinion that it should go in the direction of the gathering of congregations is not just my opinion. This mirror was also built by international institutions. We had monitoring by the Council of Europe, which found that the problem of Slovenian self-government was too fragmented, that the municipalities were too fragmented. We had an OECD review, which found that Slovenian municipalities were too small and that it would be wise to go into reducing their numbers. This is not just my opinion, it is also the opinion of some international institutions. You are all well aware that the Law on Local Self-Government now in force stipulates that the municipality must have at least 5,000 inhabitants. Today, it is not possible to establish a congregation that has fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. This has been the case for several years now, and if we wanted to establish a municipality in a settlement anywhere in Slovenia, comparable to those of the past who have 300, 500 or 1,000 inhabitants, we would not be able to do so. So we've come into a situation of some inequality. On the one hand, a multitude of small congregations that have already been formed; and on the other hand, a law that clearly states that such congregations cannot be established. Professor Schmidtovnik is talking about chickens and ostrich. Slovenian self-government is completely asymmetric. You have on one side the Municipality of Ljubljana, which is 280,000 people, and on the other hand you have municipalities for a few 100 people, while on the other hand you have the same tasks as usual. Do we really think that such a wide range of tasks can be performed by the same Municipality of Ljubljana, Celje or Municipality of Krško or by any larger municipality, and on the other hand one small municipality with 400, 500 inhabitants. See, these small congregations actually function as local communities. They can deal with local roads, they can deal with a firehouse, but they cannot deal with the big, bigger development projects that we urgently need in Slovenia. In half of Slovene municipalities, only 15% of the Slovenian population lives in hundreds of municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. 15% of the population lives in municipalities with less than 5,000 people. The debate on local self-government is certainly also about what development we need in Slovenia, as well as about how we will remove European funds, as you mentioned, Mr Bogovic. Do we really need to draw European funds for some mega-Romanian circles that are not required by any logic in road safety, then in the middle of these circles, the mayor makes a fountain that is beautifully lit, as if it were driving through Las Vegas? Do we need any projects that will create jobs that will exploit those activities Slovenia has, say, beautiful nature, tourism, etc. I don't think so. I've been driving through a number of smaller municipalities where mayors think that's how development works. A large circle, a fountain, a pre-sealed gym, a pre-sealed sports hall, because it accidentally applied to his congregation. And since small congregations are well - founded with money unlike large ones, of course, this was no problem. And do not blind yourself to how the system of local self-government was created in Slovenia. We all know that, and the Constitutional Court has stated in several of its decisions, that today's municipalities are the result of political bargaining, that this did not come on the basis of some professional criteria and professional arguments, but that it was mainly about who was stronger in this House, who succeeded in expropriating his municipality, who took it out. I give you your congregation, you support my congregation — that's how they got to the congregations. Your mayors are the largest in small municipalities, and therefore it is not surprising that they are the loudest. You were also talking about the provinces. I agree that in Slovenia we need them to exist between municipalities and the country a large intermediate empty space that should be filled. This is a real debate, a real debate, but there will be more time to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u47	Thank you very much. As your candidate, Mr. Franz Bogovich. Before you, he was already a magician as a proponent. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u48	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! This meeting is very interesting and on a very interesting day. A few weeks ago, you can check with your colleagues, say Mr Tanko was there, and European Member Milan Zver, when we sat at the SDS headquarters and talked about interpreting against Mr Virant, I said, "You know, it will be best to see if the coalition knows that his interpretation is really controversial that they will "handle" on a day when it will be covered with a bank report." And that's exactly what you did, you can check, that was quite a few weeks ago. As far as this is concerned, you are quite predictable; it is nice that you yourself have admitted that you are aware that the Minister as a minister is weak and that his ministry is controversial. Second, the way of speaking about how this is happening today. This is also very interesting, does not respond to the obvious; some key ones that I will mention later are carefully released because they are related to mathematics, and they are very difficult to deny. But anything is said, we've also heard of road victims who have nothing to do with this interpretation. We are talking about those things that are in the public interest, or about the Minister's conduct when it is in the interest of the public interest, even when it is his responsibility and the responsibility of his words. And it's not about anyone taking away his freedom of speech, as he himself said, away from it. Each of us will defend freedom of speech at any time and for anyone, including the minister. However, the Minister is expected to be aware of the impact of his words. If it causes harmful consequences, it should not be confused when the question of liability is asked. Responsibility is a normal component of democracy, as is the normal component of democracy's freedom of speech as a fundamental human right. In Slovenia there is a problem of public information and this is how it is used today. You planned this in advance, as you said, you can check out how many weeks ago I predicted this would happen. In order not to talk about what is wrong with the government, so as not to talk about the mistakes that one minister has obviously made, so as not to talk about arguments for and against, this is done on a day when banks are being talked about. It is very interesting this discourse, which is present today when it comes to banks. We are certainly the only country in the world where it turns out that you have 5 billion euros in holes in banks and this is declared almost the success of this government, 'yes, because it is not as bad as we expected where those who said it could be even worse'. Strangely, where is Mr Kranjec now, who said in Parliament that there could also be 12 billion euros. By the way, he mentioned the highest figure in history, and I hope I haven't leaked any state secrets when I said it out loud. This is of course no success, this hole will be paid from taxpayers' money and represents one used car for every citizen and citizen, with babies worth it. That's how much it's gonna be for the banks again. And so much about those who are trying to make it a success today with some spin, which is what we're talking about here today. By the way, the dispenser of absurdity sometimes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u49	Focus on the point, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u50	Don't worry. Even procedurally, Vice President, this is what I want to warn you about how things work with us. You know, if you count the hours of this interpolation and all the points of the agenda, then you'll see that the vote goes out on Saturday at about eight o'clock in the morning. So much for how this country works. Now let someone convince me that this is in the public interest. In this way, it is said at night, and it hides a lot, let's say a very controversial law when it comes to hundreds of millions of euros, as I think the plan is. But if I'm wrong, then you'll probably end the meeting tomorrow, and we'll continue it later. So much for that part of the intro. Now, to the point. If someone's doing a lot of work but doing bad, then the only result is doing a lot of damage. And here's a case like this when it comes to numbers that can't be disputed. You know the promise that you'll pay someone advance interest or what we're conditionally calling a criminal interest means that you've committed the state and the citizens to paying an internal internal loan of 8% to 9% of the interest there. I think it's 8.9% if I'm right about now. No investment, no credit is as expensive as this one, of course, made to make some prestige, to say it — see how well we got along. It is better that the government, which you do not do otherwise, take another loan abroad or issue bonds, even though they have these disastrously high interest rates because these governments, which are now, no one takes them seriously in this Europe, regardless of the big words that have been made today; but Europe already knows why it has said them. Because you said we don't need aid that's extremely cheap because the interest rate is below 1%, we don't need it. We'll take the one where we'll pay for more percentages. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u51	Mag. Grims, the point of interpretation is the work and responsibility of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u52	That's what I'm talking about, ma'am. I understand you don't like it, but these are facts, these are numbers, and no one can challenge these numbers with any word acrobatics. And that is why it has been said today, because we will pay substantially more and thus significantly more burden citizens and citizens than we could otherwise have done rationally. And so did the minister when he was negotiating. That's what I'm talking about, Vice President, if you'll listen to me. What did he do? He said he would pay late interest, he committed everything because he signed it on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but the government confirmed it. This means that the actual internal loan will be paid at a 9% interest rate. However, if they had rented it abroad and paid it to everyone immediately, they would have been very happy and satisfied, they would have paid about 5.5% if it were, say, three-year bonds. It is said that now twice as much will be paid for interest, twice as deep in the pockets of taxpayers, the minister who went out now as should have been done rationally. And now everything else is being discussed here; these numbers, which they find difficult to challenge, are not being discussed. And that's the problem. There is also material damage caused by unnecessary circuses with the congregations, much of which has been discussed today. This is an indisputable fact of how much energy went into nothing, how much time, how many meetings it took to throw away a bone that was probably — or as if it were now understood from the Minister’s words — just a smoke screen because you did it when you were most rushing to raise taxes, and so that people were not burdened so much by how you taxed them. Because they noticed too late, they were talking about whether the congregation’s border would be a little bit there or not. This is how this coalition works, and the Minister is also personally and objectively responsible because he was an active actor and because he is a minister and is responsible under the Constitution and the law for what he does and does as a minister. And for what he says. And no one forbids him to say anything, just to take responsibility for his words. Otherwise, it is no different than the effect that people have even less confidence in state institutions than they have, unfortunately, right now. And if there's something wrong with this country right now, it's that people just don't believe anyone else anymore – and then they're all the same. We're not all the same, we're not all the same! Some of us keep our word, some of us never, and that's the problem. But if you say one word as a minister, you have to swear that people accept you differently, that they understand this as some kind of presentation of the future policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And that this has certain consequences, including material consequences, even if it is endlessly meeting in vain, because it wants to object to something. That's what it costs, that's what taxpayers do. This actually causes material injury. That's why it's not something we could throw under the table. It is said that if a person’s conduct, with some action, causes harmful consequences as a minister, he must also take responsibility for it. It's the most normal thing in every country. And if someone has so poorly negotiated that they have signed something that means that they will reach people twice as long into a pocket that is already completely empty, and they are even more drawn to interest, completely unnecessary, to say that they did not have to rent a loan. You actually hired him, you only hired him with employees, but that's the most expensive possible loan in the world right now. That's what you did. People will now pay twice as much interest as they should. If we gave them everything right away, we'd either hire a loan or sell a bond abroad. It is also necessary to exercise responsibility. And just that would be enough reason to get rid of someone, because they don't have the numbers, or they don't understand them, or they're the worst kind of demagog. And he boasts of something that is actually extremely harmful when we look at it in terms of public interest or in the interests of taxpayers. Because of such political prestige, hikes for political prestige are then paid by taxpayers — twice as much as they should. It's a new metal policy. Once upon a time, there was a continuation of the New Kow Policy. Mr. Virant, who went out now, could have seen it at some point and maybe even recognized it, there were very similar tricks in there. There are still many open questions concerning the issue of responsibility. Some of them are more difficult to measure, but they are still quite evident, even in the words of the Minister himself. For example, earlier, an extremely emotional address was made by the head of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Code when she defended her minister. Which is nice, but in a somewhat strange way, I must say, I hope Mr. Virant's wife didn't see it, she'll think something else. Speaking of which, it's not fair, it's not fair, and it's not good if you want to talk to the National Assembly, if you're talking about words that are in interpretation. No one in the interpellation has seen the attempt to correct the injustices or to try to implement the decision of the European Court of Justice. Only then do you have to pour pure wine. The European Court did not say that this must be done exactly as Minister Virant had suggested. And he did, because you finally supported him and voted in that law. The European Court did not say that a lump sum must be paid to everyone first, and then the possibility of action in such a way that all the time limits start to be counted as from the entry into force of this law. This is not what the European Court of Justice said. It was your decision, first the minister, then the government and finally the coalition as a whole. What we have read in this interpolation is that the figures were misrepresented, that the budgetary implications were not really shown, because this is again something that taxpayers pay. Even today and in all the debates, for example, you have avoided this, because now it will not only break down, but will also be a lawsuit of what it will cost in the courts. For for all these charges — and this is not to be said — you have written down in the law that no tax and other charges are paid, which are obligatory in the courts if you are going to press charges. Which means that all the costs of these lawsuits will be borne entirely by the Slovenian taxpayer. This is completely abandoned in this law, if I only mention this part. Everything else is highly underestimated. The law is written in such a way that it stems from the assumption — including the assessment of what is financial — that more than half of the people will complain. I don't know what that decision is. But he should probably come from the assumption that everyone, or between us, will be told, is also written in such a way that the law literally travels to complaints if you read it carefully. Which means the consequences are already underestimated from this point of view. Otherwise, those guards inside are unrealistic. In my opinion, realen was the only sentence that Mr Virant said at the first reading, and it was later attributed to the media, who know exactly why, but was spoken by the Minister on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I quote: "If anything goes wrong, however, compensation will also be able to far exceed a billion euros." And all the costs, of course, that are tied to it. And I would believe that it's a real assessment, but it's not in these materials. And if a government wants a minister to do his job responsibly, it is at least what is expected when a proposal is presented to present to people what the consequences will be. He does not do this for his own enjoyment or should not do it for his own enjoyment and promotion, but he does it in order to realize something that must be done according to the rules in force, either the European Union or the countries of Slovenia. But the solution that he proposes must also be properly presented to people — how much it will cost! He's got a real score to give! It's also in our Rules of Procedure, after all. But this means a real assessment in full, without letting certain things go, I've already presented a case like this, and others are undervalued. In fact, the costs of this will certainly be higher. And there are other hidden costs, and all the administrative procedures are all the other things. Of course, there is nothing to be said about in that marriage. It is said that the law will have significantly greater material consequences than the pianist approach — or, if you like, personal promotions probably of the minister and the entire government — is presented in public. That's what we warned you about at the time, but that's what got out of it. Today we are asking the question of responsibility because this has been done in a way that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not to mention all other legal acts of the State of Slovenia. Don't even talk about it again. And it's really about money, ladies and gentlemen. It is just as much as it is unnecessary, from prestige or ignorance, to reach deeper into the pockets of taxpayers as it would be necessary. And because of any response or verbal acrobatics, I would remind you that this is obviously the law of Murphy that says, "Whatever you're told about politics, they always tell you about money." And that's the essence of this interpolation. Therefore, interpellation is justified because, as this government does and this specific minister, the Slovenian economy is unnecessarily burdened by entrepreneurs, which is therefore literally dying. And needlessly burdens all citizens and citizens as taxpayers with increasing taxes, taxes, everything you make up every week, including some extra vignettes and new periphery and more. That's why we all end up living worse. That's the key to interpolation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u53	Thank you very much. As a proposaler, Mr Franz Bogovich, on behalf of the SLS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u54	Unfortunately, the minister is not here; I believe he is listening. That is why I would only like to tell him that it is unfortunately a very short memory, because it is so insignificant that he now presents his statements about the abolition of Slovenian municipalities. I don't know why there have been so many consultations in the State Council, consultations in various NGOs, so many public statements about how this number will be reached by the next local elections, how the deal was in the coalition; so there is no need to mislead the public now when we talk about these cases. At the same time, I'm telling him that he's a really great speaker who's always making a point on something other than what's wrong. Around the "minimum messenger", fountains, circulars in small municipalities, your mayors – of the types of SLS that are the most. I think, as far as the abolitions or the salaries of Members to minimums are concerned, there are also broader initiatives, very attractive, I don't know what Members would have at the time, but let's leave it. Above all, I was awakened in some way by his thinking, but how embarrassed the government is today that the National Assembly may not really need us anymore, and that from this point of view it would be easy for him to send us to the minimum or to someone else. You accept the laws by emergency procedure, on Wednesday the Government's Public Finance Act, on Thursday, the Colleges, on Friday at the emergency meeting of the National Assembly. And we give the government a mandate to allocate around €5 billion of public debt to taxpayers to bear the bad claims of themselves. You really underestimate the role of Parliament and you don't give it up and you make it worthless or unnecessary. In a similar way was the Banking Act, on Monday there will be a Mining Act and a whole bunch of laws that you were so persistently attacking last year that these procedures are not appropriate. Small congregations were mentioned and, in some ways, a demeaning attitude toward these places. The fountains, halls, and one such congregation were mentioned. Thursday is one such congregation. Tourism is one of the most developed municipalities; a municipality which is a recorder of European funds in Slovenia. Their mayor explains how to draw on European funds across the countries of the former Yugoslavia, where these perspectives are being drawn up. The case of the Odrans has already been mentioned here. Another example of a very successful congregation. Pa Municipality of Šentjernej and Municipality of Šentrupert. Indeed, you speak so humiliatingly of these congregations that they are some local communities. Take a ride into these congregations, not just in the national audiences, but by accompanying them quickly through the congregation. Stop there, talk to these people, and you'll see what local self-government is and how local self-government lives. People need to get closer, including with the authorities, and also by moving close and not talking so humiliating about people who are trying so hard to make this Slovenia as beautiful as it is today. Many more efforts and people’s own resources have been invested in the development of such congregations. The municipalities don’t need this money for circulars and fountains, but it’s nice if these municipalities build sewers, if they arrange plumbing, if they bring any optics to the countryside. All of this is done by these congregations. That's why it's really beneath me to talk about these congregations. About our mayors – in the SLS we are proud of our mayors, of the other mayors, let these people say something about their voice being heard. As last said on the committee of the President of the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, Mr Stinky of Pivka, "believe that the mayors also know what to say and we know what to say about it". I do not want to hear these people, and in a way I think that this debate really shows that the misunderstanding of local self-government and the elevated attitude towards this area are. That is why I want this debate to take place in a second tone, to really talk about needs and how we will make this local government even better. Not that someone, perhaps even because of the covert of any future election results, represents and offers some concepts of the development of local self-government. Let us work well for this country, not to foment some populism and to hold a pianist debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Dimitrovski has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In my own debate, I will focus on a part of the interpolation that talks about deleted ones. And I'm gonna start right at the beginning, because I think we need to freshen up our memory today. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed, in the case of deleted, the unconstitutionality and illegality of conduct twice, on an average even seven occasions, but we are witnessing the ongoing stories of denial and non-resolving of the injustices systematically violated by the Slovenian authorities in 1991-1992. Moreover, deleted, 25 000 671 of them have been used too often in the past for political struggle between different political parties, and the debate itself has often been under every level of political culture. Today, too, due to past discussions, the image is such that there is no resident of the Republic of Slovenia who would not have had such or different opinions on deleted persons. What, though, is deleted from the register of inhabitants, and who are deleted? On 26 February 1992, the administrative authorities, as instructed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the citizens of the former republics of Yugoslavia, who until then were the legal permanent residents of Slovenia, seized the right to permanent residence and thus converted them into illegal foreigners. All this without warning and the possibility of a complaint. However, the victims were not notified of the deletion, and they were informed of it by chance when they arrived at administrative units after official work, and then they were destroyed with valid personal documents issued in Slovenia. Others were asked to do so, but in order to destroy their documents and send them to the Office of Foreigners, the effects of the deletion were severe. For example, they were no longer able to find legal employment, to be insured, to receive social support, to have no access to the educational system, and to be listed. I will not stress how many constitutionally protected human rights and freedoms have been violated by this unilateral act, as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has also repeatedly recognized. However, in order to eliminate it, contrary to international human rights obligations, the United Nations Committee on Economic and Social Rights, the United Nations Committee on Human Rights, the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights and, last but not least, the European Court of Human Rights in the Kurić case. It is sad that in 20 years Slovenian policy has not been able to achieve sufficient political wisdom to eliminate the injustices committed. We sent them away because we had to. I personally believe that the removal of the problem was a necessary step of the State towards the correction of injustices and the return of human dignity and the guarantee of the rule of law, which the Republic of Slovenia is and, last but not least, Article 15 of the Constitution, which states, quote: "The judicial protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the right to remedy the consequences of their violation are ensured." The decision of the Constitutional Court and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights clearly and clearly refer to the violation of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, namely the right to privacy and family life, the right to an effective remedy and the prohibition of discrimination. The Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights has therefore adopted, in the case of Kurić and the other v Slovenija, a pilot judgment ordering the Republic of Slovenia to adopt, within one year, a system of compensation for all persons who come into question as victims of the conduct of the Republic of Slovenia. Prior to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, the status regime for deleted persons did not automatically mean the right to compensation, and therefore the decisions for permanent residence with effect from the date of issue by Slovenia to the deleted are not related to compensations imposed by the European Court of Human Rights. Those who claimed that the compensation would not be, so they did not lie – the Slovenian legal order does not recognise the entitlement to compensation. Only the European Court of Human Rights granted compensation to the victims, which found that the Slovenian legal order did not provide for compensation and ordered the State to draw up a compensation scheme. In addition, the compensation suffered by the European Court of Human Rights was not based on the provision of the status by which the injustices were abolished, but on the basis of the deletion in 1992. In addition to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights in Positive Slovenia, we refer to this deletion as a discriminatory and illegal measure by the then authorities, and above all a serious violation of human rights – greater than any other violation committed by our country in its short existence, since the right to human rights is a national right and Member States are obliged to prevent a state without citizenship. After the mass and damage suffered, we can talk about the most serious human rights violations in Slovenia alone. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer a dilemma about the illegal, unconstitutional and discriminatory behaviour of the Slovenian State. With the adoption of the law, we have partly abolished the injustice. This is, I believe, the right and, above all, the duty of all of us gathered together. The opening of the issue may have seemed to be a wrong decision at a time when we are facing the financial and economic crisis; but the crisis must not only survive, we must go stronger from it, with a sense of respect for human dignity. Once again, it must be stressed that the amount of compensation erased was by no means a bid, as we have heard many times in the National Assembly. Let me repeat once again what I have already done several times, with regard to compensation, it is worth noting once again that the practice of the European Court of Justice shows that in the compensation schemes the compensation is paid at 40 to 50% of the compensation awarded from the pilot action, which has given us a positive opinion from the European Court of Human Rights. I will only touch on the indications concerning the circle of beneficiaries, since all those deleted from the circle of beneficiaries whose application for permanent residence permit or for admission to citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia has been refused or the procedure has been suspended because of the party's non-participation on grounds of public policy, security or defence of the Republic of Slovenia, international relations or the enforcement of criminal offences in accordance with the legislation governing the issue of a permanent residence permit or admission to citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of the decision on the application. It should therefore be noted once again that some 14,000 deleted laws have been removed from the compensation scheme. All SDS allegations that in the compensation scheme, those who have not tried to obtain status that did not actually reside in Slovenia and who have been rejected for justified reasons are unfounded. Finally, the adoption of the law is intended to close the chapter of Slovenian self-sustainment history and show respect for the Slovenian Constitution, the Charter of Human Rights and not least for the people who have been wronged. But, unfortunately, some of them obviously aren't capable. However, from past mandates, we know how the fate of ministers who are committed to the elimination of the erased injustices ends. For some of us, it is logical for us to interpel the competent minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u58	President, thank you very much. Too bad the minister's not here. I think it's my speech – it's crying in the desert. I'll continue where colleague Dimitrovska ended up. When I listened to her debate, I do not believe it, but I doubt whether she represents the interests of Slovenian citizens and citizens in this Parliament or any other interest. This revelry in some speeches suggests that if, right, Slovenia must be punished, that it has conquered itself, that it was a unique event in the history of the Slovenian people and that it may have made a mistake. I will say a few more things, in some way, that we will know whether some people are on the side of Slovenian citizens and citizens today. It is necessary to know how Slovenia has prepared itself, before Kurić's pilot judgment in Strasbourg has succeeded; therefore Slovenia has lost as such. The Slovenian Defence Office was represented by a lawyer, a nominee who came to the so-called European Department as a former criminal judge. Does anyone hope to say it's not true? Did anyone plan on us losing this judgment? Is it not our interest, on the one hand, to seek the right to wrongfully correct those people who have been wronged by a decision of the Constitutional Court? On the other hand, the interest of Slovenian policy, which represents the interests of the Slovenian people, is that the state pays as little compensation as possible. That's logical, that's normal. On the one hand, we are pursuing the objective of correcting matters and, on the other hand, reducing these damages. Slovenia and the Slovenian judicial system have done their utmost to lose this judgment before the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg. Not to send oz there. This would be prepared by a group of our best experts, or perhaps even a foreign one. No, no, no. This was done by a novice who was formerly a criminal judge, dealt with the most complex legal procedure and represented him before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Dear Dimitrovska, so much that you will know – this is the story. And we're pursuing targets. Everyone who is an official is pursuing the goals of Slovenian citizens and citizens. That's it. And when we speak of the so-called dignity of an individual, then this dignity is for all citizens and citizens, including those who today do not have to enjoy even the right to be buried in order to be able to have a memory, a grave, where they can also exercise their own right. I'm talking about 650 postwar graves, talking about a whole series of cases in the archive, where it was proved that in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, Uda was killing our citizens. That's dignity, too. Where today is the dignity of all these people and of their kinsmen when you wave with the red stars in the National Assembly and say that this matter is not shared. Dignity to all men. As an official, as a member of the first Slovenian army, I will always wave with those symbols that have always connected us, and not with those that have shared us. This too is dignity, colleague Dimitrovska. If I quote a deceased respected academic, president of the Academy, he said that the dignity of a person is the first ethical or constitutional right, a certain right that is above all. Of course, above all and dignity, it also applies to erased ones so that you do not think. But as a politician, you are pursuing the goals of citizens and citizens in particular, that this compensation is paid, but in as little value as possible. That's the first thing. We now proceed in the interpretation of Mr Virant. My opinion, including at the hearing, as Mr Virant had heard as Minister of the Interior, I mentioned in that hearing. See, Mr Virant is considered a legal expert in the field of administrative law, i.e. the modernisation of public administration, where he spent most of his work. I don't have anything to add here. I believe he did a good job. For what you are pursuing as a politician, you know the conditions in which you are acting, you know citizens and citizens, you know Slovenia, how Slovenia works, what rural means, what the city means, and what the situation is in the countryside. My story is my family's story. My father was a vet in Lenart. Unfortunately, he passed away. I spent the whole holiday with him in the countryside. I survived them in the municipalities of Lenart, Church, Benedict, Saint Ana, and I dated him as a child when he treated animals in the countryside, mostly in mud, mostly in people who did not even have electricity, had no water. I've seen this situation myself. Especially when I was blackmailing some toys or treats, then he always took me to a family where they had one cow, one pig where they cried to save that cow so that they could survive those families. When I listened to Minister Virant in September – when he ran in front of the cameras himself, the lights went back on and said in the soy of the headlamps that he would soon terminate 100 Slovenian municipalities and save EUR 100 million for a longer period of time – I raised the first question, first of all, by which methodology he calculated EUR 100 million. See, municipalities with between 2 and 5 000 inhabitants usually employ between 5 and 8 people. 5 to 8 people in the municipal administration mean that most of these people are referees and have wages even below 30. 100 Slovene municipalities, on average, if we take 5 or 7 people, are 700 people. 700 people out of 164 thousand civil servants – we can calculate the percentage of what this number means. On the other hand, as an MP from the countryside, I represent the interests of my people whom I value, I was in old Ljubljana a few days ago, where I sat in front of a vineyard and listened to some stories, stories by 4,5 lawyers who have flat-rate contracts with Slovenian state companies, who boasted about thousands of euros that they receive monthly for not doing anything. Then I went to another inn where there were two craftsmen working for the Municipality of Ljubljana. Then I went to the third location, drank the children's wine again like Stier'c. In the third location, there were three bankers of the Ljubljana Bank who say, "they can't do anything to us". So I listened to these conversations, and the story of this evening was that none of them were entrepreneurs, none of them exported anything, none of them produced anything productive, but they were literally parasites in the Ljubljana system. And when we look at the budget – EUR 313 million is held by this congregation. What I'm reading to Minister Gregor Virant today is that he doesn't have personality traits so he can be a minister. Being an expert does not mean that you are a good person, that you are primarily reasonable, that you are righteous, and that feeling is the one that is most important that you can be a good politician. That's what I think it establishes a good policy. First of all, you don't make the difference, you know how things work, what's good, what's wrong, what's right and what's wrong. And now there is €313 million of budget in the Municipality of Ljubljana. The municipalities in the Slovenian Gorica have a smaller, around €3 million budget, Lenart has a ca. 8 million budgets as a central municipality. There are 75,000 civil servants working in Ljubljana. Here are the headquarters of all state-owned enterprises, here are most of the representations of foreign companies, here we have a whole range of consulates. To do wrong and to say that small congregations are the most guilty of causing great costs is total populism. This is literally cheering for the Ljubljana scene, this is cheering for as much money as possible to collect and pay for the missed investments of Ljubljana. That's a fact. We can't do that, and that's the essence of this coalition. You can hardly believe that. All that matters is the continuation of the story – we also have a development agency in the Slovenian Gorica. Previously, the minister used to say that the downside of these municipalities is that they don't have the resources, that they don't have the quality resources for quality projects. He's doing a lot of wrong here, too. In Slovenian Gorica we have a development agency, which is extremely good, LAS Ovtar works extremely well. We are just connecting with the Austrian municipalities where they have the Vulcanland Development Agency. We are planning new European projects and the first problem that arises – why we do not have a medium level of local self-government, why we do not have provinces, which limits our projects. I would cheer for a minister if I said, "My priority project is local self-government" so that the Styrians could develop normally so that they could develop normally under some of their historical circumstances; that Dolenjska could develop normally, as well as Primorska. Then it would somehow be determined how real the power of Ljubljana is. What the real economic power of Ljubljana is. In Styria we demand that you give us 5,000 civil servants at this time, to send them to Maribor and there slowly construct our so-called Styrian Region. Then we can weigh how much you are actually worth in Ljubljana. How much are you actually worth to see you? You know, my people aren't parasites. Most of it is a city of large parasites, which are all tied to state-owned enterprises; that is why you work in SDH to do nothing because nothing will be sold, because a whole range of families and businesses here will no longer be able to work. That's the essence of politics. I came into politics and came here to stop it; and I will fight for it. Not that I'm a populism now, and I'm doing commercials in front of my own because it's unfair because it's unfair to people. Because we have people working for 500, 600 euros. I can go to the minivan right away. Even any person who comes from the Slovenian mountains can go to the minimum because he is used to the minimum and will do so and will be satisfied with the minimum. Above all, I will be content with the minimum, Mr Virant, if I can drive 150 euros in the business class, just as you do. Frankfurt–Ljubljana, 28 September 2010, business class, ticket price 150 euro. Look at this. Now, let me tell you a story. I recently arrived from a meeting in Vilnius, I locked myself in Frankfurt, there was a suitcase removed and I missed the following flight from Frankfurt to Ljubljana. Of course it was my fault, I went there, I waited for the next plane, I paid 200 euros. So, I paid 200 euros for the map, I didn't buy the map, and the map was 600 and it was a few euros. I've paid 200 euros. This is justice; for 150 euro business class to the company. It wasn't Lufthansa who would say, "Mr. Virant, you're a nice man, or Mr. Breznik, you can do us a big commercial, we'll give you tickets." That's no problem. You can fly like a successful politician for free. But this is a company where my Lenarts and the Trinity, and the Vollachs and the Saint Anne, are poor for 600 euros when they're taking their wages away so that they've already drawn EUR 80 million or 100 million into this company. That they have submitted that the company has not failed – this is the principle, Mr Virant, you know. I have never revealed to you your expertise; but this is principle, this is righteousness, and this is what separates some of you. We're not all the same politicians. Especially when you threw your fellow Members out of Parliament – Mr Vogrin, Mr Simcic, who were not able to do so, they also had difficulty starting their journey. When you threw them and walked away from the guardian angel. Laugh – it's sad. It's sad, it's very sad. I invite you to do something good for the congregations. The municipalities may have completed their first cycle, but in the second cycle, these congregations could have moved on to a built - up province. And that was your priority, and your task as a member of the government was to sell these companies as soon as possible and end all the parasitic relations that rule. You can't save on matches. You save on matches, and you throw the logs out the window — an old proverb that applies. And populism to run in small congregations, look not. And you say that this was a draft; no, it wasn't a draft. You went in front of the cameras and told them you'd save 100 million. I ask you again, by what methodology did you calculate 100 million? The municipalities that used to be mud, where the asphalt road was above the standard of these municipalities, where people were struggling to survive precisely because of some of the customers — now laughing at them — because you destroyed the countryside because we were fourth-rate citizens. Don't these people I represent deserve at least about the same conditions as people in Ljubljana? They don't deserve it, they don't deserve normal schools, some kindergarten that's as heated as it is in 19 or 20 degrees in winter. Don't they deserve it? But they are second- or third-rate citizens because they come from the countryside. It is quite different when you step into Austria, there is a higher standard of living in the countryside, because people are more relaxed, there is better energy. I enjoy coming to the Slovenian Mountains, because it's a completely different atmosphere, it's not the acquittal of people who work important, but in fact they don't create anything in this society, but they're purely parasitically tied to those people's pockets that work for 600 or 700 euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u59	Focus on the interpolation, please, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u60	Today we are talking mainly about human personality growth. The one who is a politician who grows above other fellow citizens and who says that I am a politician – that is why I accept the responsibility to be fair in my political career and that I will share my votes fairly in Parliament and, above all, that I will not commit injustices. I have said today about the deleted case of the stepmother's conduct as part of the judicial system that represented Slovenia's interests. And that, Mr. Virant, one more thing, the judgment of Kurić and the company did not impose on you exactly how much compensation there must be. Even those who are now laughing, who have even demanded in that law that these people who receive these compensations, that they should also be given priority in certain matters, in types of housing, etc. Prioritised. Do you realize whether you work in the interests of the Slovenes and Slovenes, or do you work in any other interest, foreign citizens? But that's what I see happening. Slovenia is becoming a predatory ground for Serbian-Udbomafian-Russian business. This has nothing to do with it, no serious German-Austrian company is coming under this government to Slovenia anymore. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u61	Mr. Breznik, please, if you maintain your dignity in the National Assembly, in your choice of words, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u62	What's wrong? But who do I feel sorry for? Isn't it serious? When my colleague Bratušek spoke here, one of the Members asked her, "Dear future Prime Minister of the Government, I am personally interested in whether you speak foreign languages." She said, "I speak very good English and something small also German." When she was at the conference in Düsseldorf, I was wondering if what was good was what she said on CNN that was good English, and I was interested in how she spoke German in Düsseldorf. I wouldn't dare order a cup of coffee. And I don't know what she was doing at the business conference, and I don't know what she was doing. That's the first thing. Next thing I know, I'm going back to my buddy Virant. Dear colleague Virant, the time of Christmas is coming. I have a number of friends, colleagues, family members who have asked me if you still have a relationship with your friends. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u63	Mr. Beznik, please, if you're not offended. Maintain the measure of dignity in the National Assembly. Don't be insulting, or I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u64	Thanks for the heads-up. Look, it's my dignity to tell the truth. The dignity of a man who flies for 150 euros in business class in a company that has been recapitalised by Slovenians and Slovenes, citizens and citizens who work mostly for the miserable wages that some are sitting in front of Karitas in these days, before the Red Cross, are waiting in rows to get another package, of course, is inappropriate. Maybe you should tell someone else that you're going to take his word, but for me, that's an inappropriate comment you've made. And that's what we're talking about today. We are talking about the destruction of local self-government, the destruction of those communities, especially those of citizens and citizens who have worked all this time. Their hard work, their work, they created our common country, they worked for miserable wages, and they are always disadvantaged. For those worth fighting, for those policy is important and it is worth fighting for, not only me, but most of my colleagues who come from the countryside. That's the difference. This is a dispute between the plebeians, if you remember the Roman state — that you do not understand. When you have a full ass of everything, of course you don't understand other things; you don't understand how local government works; you don't know what it's like to have a congregation come out a little bit of mud. You don't understand this, if you lived on the route of the Ljubljana bypass and the big city, you'll find it difficult to understand Slovenian countryside. And these are the personality traits that shape you as a good politician, a just one; and they construct you as a bad policy because they don't understand all people, because you have to work for the good of all. At the outset, I said, I am working towards solving the injustices that "pacta sunt servanda" – I respect these decisions. On the other hand, I will resolve in policy that Slovenia will be as disadvantaged as possible, because on the other hand we will commit other kinds of injustices, that is to say again to those people I have spoken about and represent, for whom it is worth fighting for. In particular, because they were elephants of that part of healthy Slovenia, healthy Slovenia, their lives did not bring great trains, but they could fight from their youth to survive. Like some Members, they worked hard, studied hard at work, gave up many of them to be thrown out. A man who flew 150 euros in business class. A man who, after his office in the previous government, had more income than the President of the State and the President of the Government, nevertheless received a so-called functional allowance. And then the part returns it when they get it with their finger on it in marmalade, and it says it's not a crime. No, it's not criminal, it's not hygienic. I think you used that term after Dr. Jambrek. It's not hygienic and it doesn't construct you as a politician, it constructs you as a human. When it comes to my ass, it's okay when it's not my ass, and I'm the guardian angel. I'm the alpha and the omega to decide. This is what we can talk about today. What is there to discuss here? First of all, what is the dignity of man, what is righteous, what is unjust, what is right, what is wrong, what is lie, and what is truth. That's the darkness. And that's why there's interpolation. We may succeed in being voted today, but it is important who we represent, what we represent, what our value systems of thinking in righteousness and injustice are. And that's what makes us different from the others. I hope that part that I dedicated to Minister Virant today would have a lot more. I'll finish because I can see that some have become extremely nervous, and Minister Virant has gone out. I will allow those who will continue to discuss the possibility of the Minister coming back, and then I would ask some Member to discuss it a little less, because then the Minister will come back and think he can give a replica. Thank you for listening and a nice welcome to the Slovenian Mountains.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u65	Mrs. Dimitrovsky, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr. Breznik, your speech could be called hate speech. Point one. Second of all, my last name is Dizirkrovsky and not Dimitrovska. And if you're interested in my background, I can tell you that I'm Ljubljana's mother, after Styrian's late father. And with regard to the interest I represent, I can tell you that I advocate the righteousness of the people to whom the injustice was committed. And this injustice was caused by the then authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u67	Thank you very much. There's no replica on the replica, Mr. Breznik. Mr. Brultz, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u68	After such a performance, people, have a performance, but you know what you should do first, you should cool off, because if you don't have any other content at this interpretation, then it's a crazy shame for the National Assembly. [[...]] Make sure someone says people in town are parasites. With what right does one child declare this? To be tired here for an hour with one pig in the Slovenian Gorica. And it's all the minister's fault. Yes, there is. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] I listened to what he was saying. And that's what he was saying, and it's obvious to the Minister. So what, you're funny? Don't you realize the problems in this country? This is an interpolation, because it shows the situation she's in. This is your right. But to say with a little demagogism: the cost of this interpolation and this session – if you have little Christian soul in you, let us say that we put the matter out of the way, that we go home and that the money that this meeting costs is for humanitarian organisations. I don't care how a Member of the State of Düsseldorf was talking to someone and I don't know what. This isn't the Minister's interpretation, people. You're nervous, you're very nervous, because this government has achieved some success. [[Laughing in the hall]] Because it is stress tests, read – Europe says the situation is good despite the gaping hole in banks, but Austria has 35 billion of this hole, Austria. That we have adopted some important laws that pushed this cart out of the mud to order trials, so you are nervous, so the anti-corruption commission has been under pressure, etc. That your friend from Luke Koper was convicted yesterday, that the courts of the courts were dropping the charges, that house investigations were announced, and that charges were being prepared. At the same time, Europe is assessing the work of this government positively. So we're on the right track. However, we must not afford a political crisis. The coalition, I hope that we will endure these slobbering impulses in our desire to fight, and that we do not take into account what actually brought us together. Therefore, it is important that the position is strong and that today, regardless of who is on Jankovic's side, who is Viranta or anyone else, we vote what we need to say is not necessary. That's political noise today. The first presentation was with the facades of a house in some villages. Virant considered that it would likely be necessary to work on the unity of the congregations. Now the reason why I shouldn't do this is because we've arranged the facade because we've really arranged circular circles and the more the poor congregation has larger sculptures on these circular intersections, it's illuminated, it's coming into a big city, it's good that they have another Mercator, that it's hot and it's making an impression of wealth. What's the added value in all this makeup? I'm in favour of having beautiful cities, that Slovenia is beautiful. What's the added value? Others have invested in the development of higher education, universities, economies, small economies and so on; some have done lighting and other things. And not just a small congregation, but also a large congregation. You're reading to the minister that he signed an agreement with the unions. Amazingly, he "corrected the damage" in saying, because it's no harm, it's something worse, erased, thinking about the need to encourage smaller congregations to unite. That's the obvious. Yes, my God. I've prepared some other content for myself, but in my predecessor, you really can't concentrate on something clever, it's impossible. Voters only elect mayors who are able to decorate things; those who make sure that every house really has the Internet to have cleaners, sewage, healthy drinking water – that is the infrastructure that is in the country and it is not even visible. And these days we shall see how much money will go into the air again with fire and many more; and that people do not have bread. But it's all Minister Virant's fault, all of it. God forbid you cut into a small congregation. God forbid. I say stay, I see in Italy how they are – the mayor is unprofessional, he has 800 souls, he regulates the community matter at the level, it's clean to take out the trash and the like at which the funeral and celebration he has a speech at, and that's the mayor. But the country, or whatever, is solving all the other problems. When we took the property tax, no, we didn't tax the building land on the wall to attract, I don't know what. Come on, come on. It is nice to flirt with people and wait for the congregation to get the maximum of what it needs and more, which it cannot do, but the state will save. Today we have no interpretation or debate on local self-government, but we have come to this. Okay, it's all the minister's fault. I'd say something else. Who else in this country will be the Minister for such personal income, for such working time, for such responsibility and for such a way as the predecessor before me, who in all ways may have regretted that he is incapable, so much so that he did not say that I do not know what. A Member can tell anyone that if he does not have his own culture. I will never tell, even a minister who is incompetent, for example, that it requires additional training to come to his senses and so on. Let's not be like that. We're all the same here, and let's stop complaining to each other. Those interpolation readings, that's nothing. It's nothing! That's why I'm going to vote against it with a light heart. It's been announced. Comrade Grimes said we'll get the results on Monday. We can handle it, no problem. What the voters will say is your problem. We've got 10 hours left. We can tell each other all sorts, all kinds, because there is no content that really interprets the minister, there is no such content. Then we insult the last names, the things we say in three days. I'm talking empty now, too, because you don't have anything to do with this interpretation, there's no point in this material that I'm going to say - Minister, now tell me. You're, you're not, anyway. It's not. Just some sausage, thinking about the need to unite congregations, we have been saying this for 10 years. Otherwise, it doesn't matter. We can unite congregations because the Constitutional Court will set up a congregation for us if necessary; so we are in such a river as is called God’s help. We're just before the holidays, and I'm talking about a culture, a Christian, a heart, and I don't know what. Let's take this into account. Come on. Let's take this into account. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to discuss it, but there was no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Beznik has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I have to replicate my colleague Brulco. First thing. You called me a child. I thank you, I'm not as sensitive a nature as some, I'm basically a child because children are just honest beings, and I say what I mean. And that's how I do it in person. Second thing, I apologize to my colleague Maja Dimitrovski if I called her Dimitrovska. I was wrong. He was a lapsus, and I apologize. If you watch the video, there are no elements of the hate speech, because in Ljubljana everything that is not truly Ljubljana's, exactly Jankovic's; it is all hate speech for some. It's a very strange environment, a cultural environment that I'm not used to. I'm really coming from another world because we're Styrians other people and I don't understand you, that's true. Next thing you know, Mr. Brultz, let me explain a few more things. You said we spoke there in three days. If this map is there in three days and this bill is for 150 euros of the Slovenian state-owned company Adrie, which has been recapitalised by people for more than 80 million euros in recent years, then it is not there in three days. Next thing. I told Minister Virant loud and clear. First of all, why doesn't he start working on establishing landscapes? Why my negotiating skills, where I can tell him they're good, why doesn't he do it? Another matter I have to stress. Why doesn't it give us an opportunity, Styrians, to construct a province, why they don't take 5,000 civil servants in Ljubljana, move them to Maribor, and do the same for Dolenjska. Five thousand take them to Primorska and we can show you what we can do. Third thing. They said I was saying that Ljubljanans are parasites. No, because not all are parasites, but the problem with politicians is that we must not lay the groundwork for parasites to graze state-owned businesses. And that's what matters, and that's exactly what you're doing. You are not directly competent, Minister, but in the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is in the dead course, you are doing just that. You know, movies have a catastrophic organizational culture, catastrophic mismanagement, a whole series of things where money is drawn from these companies, and people are losing. These are companies of Slovenian citizens and citizens. And in 8 months, if you don't make an order here, it goes into a few hundred thousand a day or a few million euros a month from these companies. That's what matters. We will no longer pay for your mistakes, not in the Ljubljana Banks and not in state-owned companies. That we will recapitalize Adrio, 80 million, but once again, or how many times? And because it's bad governance, then the countryside won't pay that price. That's loud and clear. And that's what I was talking about today. And I talked about what the congregations had done since I was a kid when I was walking around the Slovenian Mountains with my father, in what catastrophic conditions people have lived in, how difficult they have lived. And that's what I've been saying, what difference does it make when someone from Ljubljana understands anyone from the Slovenian Mountains, how proud we are of the way we've crossed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u71	Mr. Beznik, your three minutes for the replica are up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u72	I haven't spoken in three days. However, Mr Brulc spoke in 3 days when he spoke in 3 days as mayor of two mandates, of course he made a social bomb out of Nova Gorica. And that is speaking in three days, on the entire line, like the mayor and as an MP. That's me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Honey Jelusich, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u74	Vice President, thank you very much. I gave up the procedural question earlier after my first speech by my colleague Breznik because colleague Maja Dimitrovski said the key problem. But now after his reaction, I can see that he didn't understand what the hate speech was about in his performance. I ask that you, as chairman of our meeting of colleagues and colleagues, draw attention to these elements of the hate speech. For he twice twisted her last name, said Dimitrovska. Those who know the origin of surnames in Slavonic culture know that for women in Macedonian and Bulgarian culture this woman form is used, i.e. Dimitrovska, Popovska and so on. Secondly, he immediately mentioned in this connection that he was probably representing the interests of foreign citizens. A falsified last name and speech, hinting at what she advocates, are pure elements of hate speech. So I ask that my colleague understand this, and I ask you to warn him — all of us — in such cases, as we speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u75	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. It is true that we all want today’s meeting to take place at a level that the National Assembly has earned. I call on all Members who will be debated in the future to stick to this and to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Now, Mr Joseph Horvat has the floor as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm not here to hurt anyone, and I don't think it's good for us to give each other directions on how to talk. I think everyone is responsible for their own political culture. My further discussion, as it has been so far, will be strictly linked to the content we are discussing today. The Minister – I will say now, dear Gregor, with whom we have probably done something good together since 2004 – I am particularly reminding you of things that seem reckless or underthinking to us as the opposition. Dear Minister of the Interior, you are also Minister of Local Self-Government. It seems to me that you have thought too little of a statement and showed your finger; czech, municipalities build fountains, unnecessary circles, and so on. That must have upset someone. In the rural congregations where I come from, there is no fountain and there will never be and there will never be a circle and there will never be. Now I want to explain something to you, and we're dealing with drinking water in the countryside. And what about drinking and human rights? We know. Minister, you have also given too little thought when you made a statement on September 5th and I summarize it by MMC RTV Slovenia. This is how it is written, in his opinion, small municipalities also find it more difficult to agree on joint projects, and, as an example, Virant cited the town's water supply, where the municipalities were unable to agree on certain issues and were therefore without European money. Disinformation, non-truth, on September 5th, most of the co-financing contracts had already been signed by the Government, signed by Mag. Dejan Židan, a minister who is also responsible for the acceleration of this project. This project is also due to the former Minister of our colleague Bogovic, when we said right at the beginning of our mandate in early 2012 and now the end of the various inventions, stepping on the ground, and now we are going with this project as with the work project. Every month there were monthly meetings, where we were also invited by the MPs of Pomur. Let me remind you, Minister of the Slovenian Government, this is today, this moment a project being implemented and is the largest cohesion project in this country. True, I hope that here I am telling the truth, that perhaps you, as Minister of the Government in the period 2004-2008, would be pleased if you made the provinces in 2008. It's a typical project of the province. At that time, it would not take 10 years to sign a letter of intent to sign contracts with contractors such as this case. But the pomur water supply is being implemented, you have told the Slovenian public more widely how embarrassing the mayors are, how wrong it is to have a small municipality in the country, because they can't agree on anything. That's not true! All the municipalities of Pomur and more, after 30 congregations finally, thank God, only managed to agree that by the end of 2015 drinking water would be in every household. I've informed you of this statement, too, mag. Diana jeedan. What you two are talking about in the government, I don't care. But I hope you've at least made a deal. And when you talked about MPs – "minimum MPs" is a pro-formity, you signed the petition "messengers to minimums". I've been talking to many colleagues, even since the current coalition. I must say, you made quite some unsympathetic moves to the National Assembly when you were the first one to be president of the National Assembly. At the Odessa, you said that the end of parliamentary tourism was, which means that you condemned us to go on a mission to travel when we were on a business trip. I already know what the news is going to be in some media, because it's the end of the year, and inventory is being made, and we're waiting for a list of who's been traveling most of the time this year. You didn't hurt me because anyone can't hurt me. But speaking of the minority, it's really interesting, and I obviously don't see that this government – I hope it's not a coalition, that only the government – solemnly and proudly published a financial hole of €4.7 billion, as if this was the achievement of this government. If we place this in the minimum gross wage, it is 3 minimum gross wages for all Slovenes or just over 6 million minimum gross wages. But we don't give them, we take them, and we take them. It's a net hole, now you have to pay interest and so on. This information was nothing new to me today, not yesterday. I calculated it myself. Many of the colleagues I spoke to, who we think logically, 29. 11. When we received confirmation from the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance on the Committee on Finance, that the State would have a bank hole of €4.7 billion at its disposal – at the time we knew, at least some, that would have a financial hole published or adjusted. How real she is — she'll probably be a stranger for a while. Well, that's enough for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The minister wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u78	Every so long, I think it's good to come by and comment on things; of course, those that are in the context of a rational debate. What are they like to go through one ear in and out; what are they like to be commented on? Question of the compensation scheme for deleted. This issue, we all agree, had to be resolved. If we had to implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, obviously we all agree; but you would not now and you would not do so. That the injustices that have been done must be rectified, we all agree; but you would not do so and not now. I fear what it would be like, for example, to be, Mr Grimes, responsible for solving this problem. What had happened in the past would have happened – the problem would not have been solved, complaints to the European Court of Human Rights would have continued, and for anyone who had been erased there, 20,000 euros would have been paid to begin with as long as they had received Kurić and remained for non-profit damage, and then for property damage, to the extent that they were able to prove it. Our compensation scheme will cost the country about half of that. I never said there could be billions if anything went wrong. There was no statement from my mouth, Mr Grimes. I said that if we were to take into account all the claims they had made and that was at least EUR 300 per month of deletion, then an unlimited court compensation to actually reach a billion euros and more in this case. I am really proud that we have settled this problem, because when I listen to these voices from the opposition, the right hand of the problem would never fix it. You wouldn't! I'd talk all the time about how you wanted to, how you would, but nothing would have happened. And there would be a problem that's been going on for so long and that the international institutions are warning us about. And the reputation of Slovenia would continue to suffer. They would be among those rare members of the Council of Europe who do not respect the judgments of the European Court of Justice. If our value is respect for the rule of law, respect for human rights, respect for our commitments — for if you join an international organization, then you will also commit yourself to respecting its decisions — then that was something that must be done. Sometime in the beginning, colleague Tonin mentioned a comparison with compensation for victims of war violence. That data was wrong, he probably made a mistake, talked about damages a day, not a month. We have compared compensation for the loss of compensation to the victims of war violence, and we have somehow compared it to the category that receives the lowest compensation – these are labour deportees. And this compensation also amounts to EUR 50 per month. Believe me, a lot of thinking, a lot of expertise has been put into finding solutions in a law that has a lot of potential to survive the next trials in the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, we don't have a guarantee and we can't have it. I've been to Strasbourg three times, I've spoken to the Secretariat of the Council of Europe three times, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. Three times I attended a committee of ministers to monitor the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Justice, I have spoken with the Commissioner for Human Rights, I have gathered information as much information as possible to resolve the matter in such a way that it will also stand before the Court of Justice. I have done this for the good of the state because I want the matter resolved in such a way that the judgment will be respected, that we will correct the injustices and that we will not pay three times as much as we can manage ourselves. So much for the problem deleted. This problem really violates our international reputation, believe me. We didn't invent this problem ourselves. The term "deleted" was used for the first time in a decision of the Constitutional Court and in a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. And I remember the debate in Parliament when we discussed this law, your main problem was that we must not say 'extended', but we must say 'transferred'. I'm sorry, but I wouldn't expect that kind of bureaucratic thinking in the National Assembly. It's not a question of whether or not they were transferred from one registry to another, or whether they were deleted from one registry. It's a question of justice. These people lost their right of movement in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia at some point. This is what the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights have found. If we don't respect the court's judgment, we don't respect it, then it all ends, then everything stops. There was also a lot of talk about whether we are successfully rationalising the public sector, whether we are reducing the costs, whether this agreement actually brought savings or not. I must say, some Members have shown great ignorance of the numbers. Look at the deal on the interpolation. That's where you got the plates. In these tables, black on white is written according to individual items, which has brought agreement with trade unions. It is good that he has brought social peace, and it is clear to all. The bet ended at the time. However, by bringing in 100 million savings this year and 400 million lower wages in the next year, see the tables. However, I can also list you if you want: the abolition of the increased allowance for women's working hours; the reduction of the allowance for specialisation, Master's degree or doctorate; the partial freezing of the collective additional pension insurance this year, 26.8 million; the linear reduction of the value of salary classes by 25 million. We have cut our salaries in concrete terms, especially for those of us who have the highest wages in the public sector. The Prime Minister of the Government has been granted the highest wage cuts, Members and Ministers, and quite a lot, while those in the lower wage classes have suffered little because such an agreement with the unions was due to solidarity, which must be in crisis. And this agreement has produced such concrete results. However, for the following year, in addition to these measures, which I have just listed, this agreement has extended all the measures that have been implemented by the ZUJF and would expire at the end of 2013. I am talking about the lower regression in the public sector, the freezing of progress to the higher pay grade and the higher title, the payment of regular work performance and the reduction of the maximum possible percentage of increased labour from a maximum of 50 % to a maximum of 30 %. With these measures, we achieved a reduction in wages in 2013 and 2014. Then Mr Prevc, who said so, "if he leaves the public sector, some ministry, 3% of the people, or if 2% of the new people are employed in a ministry, that means an automatic increase in the salary by 2%. But at the same time, this ministry leaves an average of 3% people a year. It is probably necessary to draw the line below and see how much more or less employees have increased. How does that count? How many came in and how many went out – and when you draw the line, you get a plus or a minus. But Mr. Prevc only took those who came and said, "Here's the extra costs, the payload has increased." And our goal is to rationalise the public sector, to reduce the number of employees. And at least in that segment that I'm directly responsible for, it's a state administration, it's a success – it's been working since 2005. We did this with some of you, and it was fine at the time, and now it's not because we're not in the same coalition. You see, it's this duality and indiscretion. Something that Virant does in a real coalition is OK for you, but when Virant does exactly the same in another coalition, it's wrong. It means that you are loyal to your principles and your ideas, to one of your programs; not to being loyal to John Janša or to Milan Kučan. It's that Slovenian twisted mentality. There's no such thing as principle and loyalty to being with the same person all the time. Especially if serious irregularities are detected, such as in this case and when we compare these sins that you read to me. In my case, no institution in this country or "s" of which it has not detected, so compare this with your leader, and then we will open the debate. We have said a lot about congregations. I don't think there's much to add. We're just staying on each other's shores. You think it is okay to have 212 municipalities in Slovenia because you think they are okay. Thus, the municipalities with 300, 400, 500 inhabitants are also fine. According to this logic, it would also be good for you to have 400, 500 or 700 Slovene municipalities, because if you break Slovenia into thousands or fewer of municipalities, you might also have 500, 600, 700. We're broken up here. You think the congregations are really big. We feel that the congregations are too small and that they need to be brought together. It's not about that. It's about different concepts. But it is true that the vast majority of the people I talk to think that it would be right for municipalities to unite and have fewer in Slovenia. There was also a talk about the so-called political workforce. In 2 cases of resolution, I have just remedied some political recruitment that has been carried out in recent sighs after the discharge of the Janša government, which we know has ceased not because some coalition partners on a beautiful day would remember that they would no longer be working in this coalition, but because a concrete report of the Commission on anti-corruption has come to the table, which has identified major irregularities that needed to be addressed. The ones you're discussing so many airline tickets today, by the way, I'm looking at the Internet right now. You can travel to Istanbul, Mr Breznik, for 99 euros. I've never gotten a ticket like that anywhere in my life. This is Adrie's last online offer, 99 euros. I've never had a 99-euro ticket in my life. But, on the one hand, a serious violation, a judgment for corruption, a KPK report, you can't see anything, you can't see anything, everything's fine. On the other hand, there is an event where no institution or "s" of suspicion has identified so many words. Now, who here is insolent and double-faced? Who?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Beznik has a replica. What did you want, Mr. Breznik? You raised your hand, yes. What do you want? Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u80	Dr. Virant, I'm sorry, but I don't have the status of malaise ambassador. You are now talking about a 99-euro action by Adria, which is under way. Look, this is mixing pears and apples. You flew on a regular business class line for 149 euros, a regular Frankfurt-Ljubljana line, which is constantly occupied, where the map is at least 1,000 500 euros if the economy class is 600 to 700 euros, a thousand 500 euros this card costs. And you want to convince me now that with some action currently taking place at Adria's, that this is the same thing, give it a rest. That's another thing. You're saying we defend 212 congregations, we want 500. I told you the solution, you are engaged in putting your negotiating skills into being to establish the provinces, to bring the congregations together naturally — what is currently going on in Austria. And don't mix some Scandinavian systems. You've studied law, you've studied law, you've studied some legal history, you know 650 years of life in Habsburg Austria, how it lived, what legal system we lived in, how it developed, how social relations developed. We are a special society in this sense. And now to mix some systems and bring them into some society that has evolved – this is where we have the problem. We have the problem that in the so-called winemaking mentality, in the so-called Balkan mentality, where we were destroyed after World War II, we brought European law. And that's the problem, so people don't respect things because they don't know them because we need a trial. That's why everything I say is a pity for people, which is normal. If I go to Austria, it's something normal; if I come here, it's something abnormal. Here is the problem, even in social relations, which are on the one hand destroyed. And once again, please don't fool yourself with any current action at Adria for 99 euros that has nothing to do with the line where you've been flying. You flew on a regular line between Frankfurt and Ljubljana, where the demand for tickets is extremely high, because it is a regular line and it is most busy. And that's cheating. And I have never today claimed to defend 212 municipalities, and I am especially defending the human will and constitutional rights that people have had in order to decide at the referendum that they want to go to correct these great differences between Ljubljana and the countryside. And the second phase of local self-government would be the establishment of landscapes and the reduction of municipalities, but municipalities would get a new start cycle through various means. We also have a new perspective in European funds in 2014-2020, and we are not prepared for that. That's what we're losing in this case, that's what I'm saying. And this is something like the President of the Government himself, not even the Slovenian State Holding Act, but he's walking around the world offering our companies. On what grounds, with what legitimacy, if we have not accepted anything, not a sales strategy, we have nothing accepted at this time. And you're doing some mini-local stuff right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u81	Your replica has expired as many replicas as there were.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u82	In Lenart you also reduced the tax administration as you turned to Maribor and so on. Why don't we go to the provincial constitution right now? That's what I'm asking, and that's what I wanted you to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u83	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u84	Thank you. I would be extremely pleased if the minister specifically responded to the particulars of the interpretation, not to list all that, as it is said in the Balkan language, "renew and expand". However, what is at stake is quickly thrown under the table, just as it has done in concrete terms. A lot of words have been said about the amount of compensation, and why it is necessary for Europe to ask for it and so on; but what I said earlier was completely omitted that some costs were not mentioned in the legislation, not later. The only ones he mentioned in Parliament were me at the time. Among them is the fact that in the law there is a general exemption for all court fees and all costs associated with this, for all those who will file lawsuits under this law – which, believe me, will be interesting in terms of the number of those covered by this law. We can assume that the costs of court based on the level of the fees are not exactly cheap. The actual effects on the budget will be much greater than shown, everything else, but I said it is undervalued. The minister says I didn't exactly quote one sentence. I usually remember very well because I listen very carefully to people, but it's no big deal, in any case you've mentioned a billion in such or other contexts, so it doesn't make sense to lose words. But it's a very interesting arrogance that you're performing with. In this House - which, unfortunately, no longer works, in Parliament, in the full sense of the word, especially in that supervisory function - perhaps it drinks water; in which other Parliament the President would very badly remind you of this. For I have seen in some parliaments that a minister so communicating with Members stops the Minister's debate very quickly. But it's a matter of servility or unservility. What you allowed yourself is, among other things, that you said, "Well, if you read, look at the table," and you mentioned 400 million effects in 2014. I looked at this table and for 2014, I quote, "The financial effects of the additional measures were estimated at €182.6 million". It means more than half the number you just mentioned — so much about what we read and how much we look at the tables. Secondly, as regards some very interesting flat-rate assessment – 'Yes, but if there was another government, you said right, a more realistic European environment would be, given the situation, and then we would never have solved it'. You happen to have been practically in all governments. You were the best-paid Secretary of State in the government of Toneto Ropa, which everyone has forgotten today, and then you were in such and different coalitions, different governments. You know very well that in particular in one – which could be called the right - centred government, led by Janez Janša – you were, as the popular said, the Prime Minister and that the government has also prepared some solutions. I specifically asked if everyone agreed to the bill, the proposal for a constitutional law and when we discussed it in Parliament. It's been explicitly stated that everyone, it seems to be worth it to you. You know very well how much work has been done, how much work has been done, but unfortunately no agreement has been reached because the entire transition left has categorically rejected any compromise in these matters. And also this law, which has now been passed, has unfortunately been passed by voting, and that was not necessary. Some minimal modifications would be, and the law would probably be fine or at least to drink water for force. As it is now, however, what you have presented as the amount of costs is undervalued. You are responsible for this because you have prepared this in your ministry and you are obliged to present the relevant numbers. Some things, some of the costs that the law will cause, you've cut short. I've said that three times. But the other thing is, all the other things are underrated. I don't know where you get your categorical claim that this won't go beyond half of them and that it's just that you're expecting this kind of cost. On this basis, these are some assumptions, you've put numbers. The real thing would be, it would cover so many and so many people, if everyone's suing, if everyone's reaching, then that's a maximum. But then the number would be significantly higher, and it would probably be more realistic, because the law is actually written in such a way that, for everyone concerned, he promises to break it in advance, while at the same time literally sending it to the lawsuit, he just guarantees in advance that he will not have any costs, he just has to invest. He doesn't have to pay a cab, not anything. Nothing! And he's probably going to ask for free legal aid, which he's going to get by the way. You know it's free for whoever gets it while taxpayers pay for extra legal services again. There's still a ton of hidden costs you haven't talked about. I am not going to start now that we will not reopen the debate, what is justified and what is not justified. Even in this solution that you have proposed, you have deliberately silenced a certain part of the costs. And that's what we're telling you. Or because of the incompetence that you did not realize at all that some trials, such as in the judicial branch of government, require so much and so much additional costs. In Slovenia, in particular, where these processes are long-term, complex and therefore more disproportionately expensive. As with the effectiveness of our justice and its non-Europeanism, Europe has repeatedly warned us so clearly that it is a shame to lose words about it. These are your key findings. In negotiations with trade unions, which you overestimated twice after effects, more than twice. In those words that you just said, you let go of what was obvious. You said everything else, but not that. You promised and signed a commitment that late payments would be paid with late interest. Late interest, however, is the most expensive way to borrow credit. What exactly did you do with that? From the point of view of the country, you have rented "as a loan" to all those covered by this, but you have therefore promised them disproportionately high interest. None of these interest rates if I were to borrow a loan abroad for this money and pay them off immediately, if these people were to tie it to a bank for the same period, in no way would you reach half of the interest you have now promised. [[...]] This is the best possible investment, this is a fantastic victory for trade unions, but at the expense of taxpayers. And you're the biggest loser. Or the biggest losers are actually taxpayers, because because you have been misnegotiating because you have just adopted one solution that is in the interest of the public interest, they will now pay more for interest than in any other way. In doing so, these people may not even be satisfied objectively because they are not aware of it right now, because at the moment they're in trouble, they'll probably already know that it's paying off. I don't know what kind of success something is actually to the detriment of taxpayers. And that's why it was that obvious. Not because you went to negotiations, but then you listed everything else. But the fact that you accepted late interest because any solution would be better than this particular solution. If this government had hired a loan, because the other does not work, by the way – you have now adopted the law by a billion two hundred times in the night, which is why these things usually work at night in Parliament, unfortunately, lately, and we would have hired a loan to do so and would have paid off immediately. This would be cheaper for taxpayers in the long run than what you've decided to do. Now you are portraying this as a great bargaining achievement. It is not because, however you calculate, if you issue three-year bonds, five-and-a-half percent interest, as far as they are now around, this is still significantly lower, significantly cheaper than 8.9% – as far as the current late interest after this calculation, which was shown to me a little earlier. And even if they fell a little bit, let's say they were 8.5%, it's still a few percent more. And in large sums, that money is known. This money's gonna have to be taken again. And in the end, what this government does is it commits itself to all possible ways to pay off something at the expense of future generations. It actually reduces the quality of life now and for future generations. And the worst part is that the economy is so overburdened that it literally dies. But what is capable of survival runs abroad. And that's the biggest national disaster we've seen right now, and that's your result. And don't brag about it with that result.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Minister, did you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u86	A very wise person has sent me advice through a text message that I probably don't mean to answer completely anything stupid. And I'm sure that's a wise political advice. But there is nothing I can do that is not something that is said in this House and does not hold oz. he manipulated us, he denied us right away, even if only five people were watching us. I think it's our duty. If someone doesn't tell the truth, it needs to be demarcated immediately. I said that for these financial consequences, look at the union agreement – the response to interpolation. Says Mr Grimes that he's looked at it and it says here the consequences are 182 million. If I only read the next sentence, where it says 'in addition to the above, I would have read 1. 1. 2013 expired the measures agreed and implemented by the ZUJF’, which means that the wage reduction is so much more and so. Look, you need to be precise and intellectually fair. The debates in Parliament need to be intellectually honest. The issue of deleted – it will always be written that the issue of deleted has been settled by this government, the government in this mandate. That no government has ever managed to settle these damages, even if someone has worked so hard. I don't know how honest these efforts have really been in the past, but in fact this problem is being solved now. And I really don't understand how it can be obvious to the Minister that he has solved the problem that has been open for 20 years, which has been warned by the judiciary that he has carried out the judgment handed down by the European Court of Human Rights. That's something I'm proud of, and I'll be proud of. The Act on the settlement of the third quarter of wage imbalances has been discussed. We have already had some generals before today's interpolation on these things that we are discussing in the National Assembly. Again – this debt to public servants was not invented by me and I did not give anything; but the Supreme Court of that State ruled that it was necessary for public servants to settle one part of the salary that should be paid from 2010 to 2012. That's what the Supreme Court found, and there's nothing here. If we put anything in the legal state, if we give anything to respect the law, then we have to do it. And in this same judgment, it says that it belongs to public servants with legitimate late earnings. I didn't make that up, but it's a duty imposed by the Supreme Court. And I don't know if anyone's watching TV and that kind of transmission and hearing that the minister's decided to give public servants some high interest to give them a little reward or "crush" to get elected. It is necessary to say that this is not true, it is necessary to say that we have a judgment of the Supreme Court to be carried out. And that's what I did. Of course, I wish and advocate that this debt be paid as soon as possible, because this way we will avoid paying late interest. It is not easy, however, for you to know, that in a very sensitive time when the European Union, European institutions, foreign partners and international financial markets trust us again and begin to believe in the credibility of this country, 100%. Europe, international financial markets and European institutions are beginning to believe again in the credibility of this country because of the actions of the government of Alenka Bratušek, that is a fact. With our own eyes and ears, we can be sure of that, those who walk the world a little. Therefore, we must be very careful that we implement the budgets as outlined. If we are able to settle this third quarter quickly and sooner, let's say in 2014 as a whole; we will do so and avoid those additional late payments, which in the whole public sector still amount to around 5.4 million in the state budget. If it works out, we'll settle it, we'll settle it first. Before that, I thought you were looking a little bit into the ground when I was comparing these sins that are manifest to one another and to the other. That's what I thought for a moment. By the way, what was my point? Personally, I think that if, in the case of an official, it should be a Member, a Minister, anyone, an institution – whether it is a court, whether it is a prosecution, or whether it is a commission to prevent corruption – it is a serious breach of the law that this official must withdraw from political life and clean things up as a private person. But I never plan on any newspaper news, on any online tabloids, or on any unverified news because it's not right. That's why we have state institutions to check things out. And once again, you've decided to put an event or an action where no state institution has found "s" by suspicion or "k" by breach, into interpolation as an important constitutional institution; and you're talking about ethics and I don't know what else. On the other hand, you have a leader of this side of Parliament, who is not sitting here, but he is working from behind, and he is convicted of corruption. Convicted, the court convicted him. Not yet legally, but he was convicted by the court, in which the Anti-Corruption Commission found very serious infringements, an unexplained asset of EUR 200 000, which conducts 5 financial investigations into state institutions. I say that to those who watch this, it will also be visible from space that it is a total double standard, a total lack of purpose and complete duplicity. The new Slovenia, which is talking about this today, has to the last persisted in that coalition, which has been heavily burdened by corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Grimes, you have a debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u88	Thank you. Now, I'm going to quote you, Mr. Secretary-General, when you were talking about collegiality and you need to listen carefully. You said, "Look at the financial impact tables for 2014." In the 2014 financial impact table – I hope to see this on camera – this is exactly the number I said – €182.6 million. What you've just been saying is not a table, but it's your text, Your Honored Minister, you were saying that when you referred to the table. And what does the chart say? This is an assessment of the possible financial implications for the 2014 budget deficit, which in this case would be 411 million higher than in the case of an agreement, which is set out in the text. But the financial effects in the table, and you said, "look at the table," are estimated at the actual 182.6 million euros. And I would expect your apology, because you were, to put it mildly, rude. Now for the second part of this story. If you're talking about anything, Minister, then don't say at least the kind of things that are hurting you, because you're a good rhetoricalist and at least that many skills I would have attributed to you. When you mention the KPK, a strong anti-corruption commission, the following should be said. When Mr Virant was in one role, he opposed the Anti-Corruption Commission Act and assessed it as bad – these are all the archived statements. But when he was in another role and this commission gave him a position that was appropriate at the time that he switched sides, it was sacred and the only salvation. So much for your credibility and the credibility of your work. But if you're talking about the anti-corruption commission, look at it from the side what it is. This is the fact that one failed politician has set up another failed policy to judge without objection all democratically elected policies. This is an institution that has no money anywhere in the European Union. And that is what you used to say when it came to marriage, and you opposed it and rightly opposed it. At the time when it was convenient for you to switch sides, to turn the salad upside down, it was the only and only salvation — and it was corruption. As far as this great judgment you mentioned is concerned. I've talked to a lot of lawyers because I don't want to talk about things. Everyone told me one thing, or else you could have read it, including one that is clearly left-handed. And they wrote that a judgment like that would never last. And that's what I said to the cameras at the time, but of course it wasn't published anywhere. I said, such a judgment as was proclaimed at the time, forgive me, it does not hold any serious judgment at any time. If not sooner, it will fly to Strasbourg or to the European institutions. And you know that, too. This is just to get someone hanged, which is not legal, to mix and tow procedures that are endlessly long for us; elections are in between, this is used to pour manure and to prevent the most serious opponent in the opposition, because it suits someone. What the end will be, however, is also similar to that of Mr Podobnik, to use a second comparison when he won the full court after five years, they gave him everything right in some lawsuit. [[...]] But five years before he was embarrassed, he's politically dead. But the fact that he won in the end, almost no one knows. This was published in some "member" somewhere at the bottom of one side, in some dismal newspaper. Because that's what we're talking about, there's something else you need to keep in mind first. One is things that are not legal and subject to further procedures, and the other is those that are facts. And let's say that if you're reading someone's unethical behavior, remember that you've got too much payout, that you've paid too much wages, and then you've admitted it, because you've got some of it back. I think you returned about 20,000 euros back then, don't you? When it comes to who did something wrong, pay little attention to what is legal, what is not legal, and what is a fact. And the fact is, you're not an ethical authority on this. And there's something else I can say, let's say from when you were in another government, specifically with Mr. Rope, how were some classes during the service time. That would be very interesting for the press as well. The press knows that, but they never wrote about it. I talked to them, I asked if anyone knew this; they said, for we all know it. I said why don't you write about it? Yeah, because it obviously wasn't in their best interest. Then let’s ask ourselves what it’s like for journalists not to publish such things, which is very interesting. By the time someone was ready to write down, as Mr. Tone Rop had already gained his experience, he was still waiting for you when he was still praised in Slovenian media for a week, and next week he was everything but human; but he couldn't believe what was happening to him. First, they were overrated and second, they were overdressed. This is a problem that we still need a very bloody neutral media scene, which would also allow for a normal debate on this Parliament. That's just it, by the way. A discourse in which we can then reason on what is right, what is wrong and what is responsible. That's what I'm talking about, Minister. If you forget your words – as it did before when you referred to the table and the financial effects – then I believe that you have forgotten about that billion. But I'm gonna find that one in some magnetogram so there won't be any doubt about it. That's what I need for my memory. All the way to the end of this. If it turns out that one move was wrong, as in this case, when it is incontrovertible – the way in which you chose to negotiate with the unions to accept these late interest rates is the most expensive one that was possible at that time, especially when it comes to these interest rates. Anything else, we'd consider immediate payment, we'd hire a loan or anything else we'd do, it would be better than what you did, because it would be cheaper for taxpayers, it would be a lower burden on the economy. And then don't show it by giving all the other information as a success. Of course, you were now silent about this in your explanation. I hope I get the right answer, though.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u90	Now let the others get a little bored with our dialogue. Two union agreements are mixed up here. One agreement was that which I negotiated in May this year, which had to be negotiated because it was necessary to lower the salary for this year and next year, so that we could have a budget within the normal framework so that we could have 3% of the deficit next year. Therefore, for the first time in a long time, we have also received a positive assessment from the European Commission and the European Council. This was the first agreement in which we reduced or would have said that if it were not, this year the wages would be 100 million higher and next year 400 million higher. You can read this in the table or in the indents following this table; you should see it, you should see it. But if you don't want to see it, then you can't see it. But I say, with the data you need to be very precise and very correct; that's all I want, nothing else. As regards the opinion on the Commission to prevent corruption. Until 2010, a law was in force which did not give this committee any meaningful or no specific powers relating to functional property. It was also Kosovo's commission, it was collecting property returns, but nothing could be done if, for example, it found a link between the assets and the incomes of the official. And I've always stood up for two: I've stood up for the assets of the officials to be public. What you are now proposing, and I think this proposal is a good one, only it needs to be properly placed in the legal system. Therefore, if there is a discrepancy between property and income, then something will be done to take action. With the 2010 Integrity and Anti-Corruption Act, which you also supported, the SDS supported this law by which Klemenčič's Commission found out what it had found in January. You supported this in Parliament. Because this law is being implemented in the right way, and because it has gone wrong, it is now bad. In 2010, the Commission was given powers that actually enable it to do something when a discrepancy is established. I think that every man in this country, and an official in general, should be able to explain every moment the origin of his property. Of course, you can't keep every account for every coffee, but at least 10 thousand euros should already be accurate. I'll continue to be precise. Find me a statement that I said if anything goes wrong, we'll pay a billion to be erased. I didn't say because I didn't think so. And since I don't think so, I certainly didn't say anything on any occasion that I don't think. Go and try, find this in any newspaper or anywhere; I don't think you will. Speaking of which, I promise I'll be quiet for a while. Today there were some other things mentioned that I think are worth commenting on. My opinion and the position of the National Gazette on the electoral system were also seen as some kind of interference with rural development and regional development. Let me make it clear that my position here and in almost all other areas has remained unchanged for 10 years and more; that I am in favour of a proportional electoral system with a preferential vote. And I don't really change my views on key political issues. As far as the referendum is concerned, I've come to my senses in this political space many times. Clearly, the media machine – you control Democracy, Reporters and so on – has been greatly blown up to change my mind and that I am insolvent. If we look at the views on individual political issues, whatever it is, let the referendum be, let the electoral system be, you will always see in me a thread that you can follow – consistency that I do not change my position. I always thought of the referendum the same, you turned like a sock. When you liked that there were a lot of referendums because you produced them yourself, then you strongly promoted the referendums. When you realized that it was appropriate to limit certain referendums in order to implement certain reforms, you were with the exception of mags. A Grimes v. referenda, maybe some. This is where Grimes was consistent, I must say. Regarding the electoral system – I have advocated for more than 10 years that we have a proportional system in Slovenia to reflect political pluralism in Parliament, that we do not have only 1 left and 1 right party, that we do not have only white and red or black and red, as someone has said today. But to reflect the views of different social groups in Parliament, there is also room for a political environment if you want. Everywhere in Europe, there is room for a liberal political environment, a liberal option across Europe is a central policy. In terms of human rights and freedoms, it is a little closer to the left; in terms of attitude towards authority, in terms of progress and economic issues, it is a little more towards the right when it comes to taxes when it comes to public finances, etc. That's why I think it's right that we have a proportional system. At the same time, in the National Gazette, we also believe that this proportional system needs to be adjusted so that the electorate has to be able to choose the one who gives him the advantage – the preferred vote. That's all. This has nothing to do with regional development. I think I answered everything. Once again, with regard to the payment of salary imbalances – for this second agreement, which refers to the third quarter of wage imbalances, of course, I do not claim to have been a bargaining achievement because we only did what we had to do. The negotiating achievement was what we did in May, when we finished the strike in a few weeks and made a lot of money. What we did on the basis of the Supreme Court judgment, however, was a necessity, it was not a negotiation achievement, I admit. There was something we had to do. The late interest also stems from this judgment and is simply to be paid to people because the State owes them something because it owes them for the whole period from 2010 to 2012, and it must also pay late interest. It can't be avoided! If we solve the problem by your method, it's like head in the sand, hand over eye, no problem if we don't want to see it, but it's not. Boomerang always comes back. If we hadn't solved it in this case, what would have happened? A multitude of lawsuits would continue, a multitude of executions would continue. In addition to paying everything with late wages in the end, we should also pay all the costs and costs of executions — that would be the end of this. That's why I talk all the time today, solve problems, solve them as best I can. In any case, we must have gathered the best possible solution that existed to close the problem. And these are all the problems that have arisen before. The 1992 story, which we finally solved in 2013, has been deleted – I hope it is final because we have no guarantee that the ESHR will fully support everything. We can't predict how the court will decide; if there's anything else to fix, we'll fix it. The third quarter — what you tell me — is the mistake of a minister in 2010, which I had to correct again. Mirage – a story with a strong breath of corruption from the year, colleague Mate will help me when that law was passed, somewhere around 1998. [[…]] That's right! The stickers were removed in 2005, as proposed by Minister Mate. That's great. That's a good move. Mirage sued, and it was also a skeleton from the closet that I had to save now. I think we've successfully solved it, we've gone to review, we've talked to the attorneys. I insisted. I took this case. I called the attorneys, I said, let's talk about this case, see if it's worth going to the audit, and I took a look at all the circumstances of the case. I said, "Yeah, here's the point of going to the audit because there's a nice chance we're going to get." And we got, a lot of people would say, because the legal judgment of a higher court is; let’s leave what it is — it is. So we've cashed out 7 million euros. From case to case, we always try to find the best solutions. There can be no other way of thinking here. There is no problem in the municipalities; you prefer small ones; we think they should be bigger – they are two different concepts, purely legitimate. But in these matters, when it comes to legal very precisely defined matters, but here it is not, there can be no other position. These are precise matters. So much, so now I've had a little chat, and now I promise I'll let the Members and Members speak for a while.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes has the floor on behalf of the proposaler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u92	Thank you for noticing that I haven't changed my mind when it comes to the referendum. What I have advocated for myself – and I must say that I regret your role, too, because you insisted on this solution with the threshold and limiting the referendum – was to follow the Swiss model. This would separate the legislative procedure from the referendum; it would no longer be possible to abuse the legislative procedure and prevent it. And this would solve the problem, which was a real problem for a country that needed reform and would preserve the quality of the referendum. I'm sorry, I warned you, I begged you, I convinced you. Since you were the minister at the time, and you were defending the threshold, and these solutions, which eventually came to pass, were the only compromise that was finally possible. This is why, in line with European requirements, the legislation and the constitution have changed. From here on out, I would like to ask that we do not banalise problems, because you said that this is the second time you have pointed out that now the financial markets are finally trusting us again. That's not true! This isn't about trust. How much financial markets trust us – or not us, but specifically this government led by Mrs Bratušek and which part of the coalition you are – was seen when Mrs Bratušek went on her term of office to explain her expected moves to Brussels. And the next day, interest, the ones that our taxpayers have to pay, flew to the sky. This has resulted in the total mistrust of the Government's programme and the people who make it up, led by the prime minister from the financial markets and the European institutions. Everything else is a diplomatic fling on the shoulders. How much do financial markets trust us? You know, I think they're triumphant, it would be such a beautiful expression to translate this into Slovenian for the people who are now following us. Why? This decision not to accept the aid which is significantly cheaper, which has less than 1% interest rate – and this is replaced by other solutions where interest is 5.5% and 7% and so on, of course, in the long term means that taxpayers will be so much more burdensome and the Slovenian economy will be so much more busy in the long term. But they will triumph over those on European financial markets. What is a more attractive investment for one European financier than having such a government in Slovenia, which so foolishly decides, to the detriment of its own people. And pretty much buys Slovenian bonds now and has such a reliable payment because he knows that we Slovenians are good, resourceful. He knows that Slovenia is part of the European Union; he knows that Slovenia is part of the euro, and if everything else fails, he will have to resolve the financial situation in some way because of the euro. In short, the investment has virtually no risk and interest is phenomenal. You did this to the detriment of Slovenian taxpayers and do not boast about it. Now the financial markets have no greater confidence, even if someone says a kind word to you. They're cutting hard behind your back. Slovenian taxpayers, and we are not laughing, are crying because you are not looking for the cheapest solutions, because you are more concerned with political prestige, because you are also sometimes afraid that someone from abroad would look at you a little bit more under your fingertips to see what things, such as who rented credits in banks, should become more public, more transparent. That's what you're afraid of. And when it comes to the issue of KPK with unrelated legislation. You know, Minister, we have always supported the legislation that has allowed for greater transparency. This proposal, which we have now tabled, goes in this direction, but we have always objected to having some institutions over which there is no control, no instance. As it is then said, there is only a blue sky over them, and in fact they are politically placed and manipulated by us all the time. What was yesterday's policy and the secretary of state who had to step down is professional today, and he's being unscrupulous about everyone else, please. It was set up by another politician, who was no longer re-elected in the elections and also failed. And this is an institution that then judges unrepentantly about everyone. As a result, governments, including those who are said abroad, are a miracle that they have rehabilitated Slovenia. [[advertising in the hall]] Yes, in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, ladies and gentlemen, because you don't like to hear this, it was written that what was achieved by the coalition and government under the leadership of Janez Janša in that year of his existence was a miracle. That's literally what it said. I can go get the article upstairs and read it to you in the original and in the Slovenian translation. And Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung is a newspaper that is influential, which they read in financial centres, which they read in European institutions, which read across the meadow, in the United States, Japan, China, everywhere. The problem is that things show up differently with us than they do with someone. And then people sometimes react very naively. When the government of the previous coalition, led by John Janša, protested the streets and shouted at what was to be done and what was to be done — and the government fell. Then the government of Alenka Bratušek came and did all of this, and the new taxes themselves and people are catastrophically worse living, in charge and everything goes wrong — and now there are no more protests. Of course, since there's no one behind the engine, no one organizes anymore. And you know that very well, and that's the problem. But all those who, with their real hardship at the time, thought that they were saving Slovenia, were abused for a specific political goal, so that you would now hesitate to do damage because you cannot even find those solutions that are achievable are actually cheaper for Slovenian taxpayers, as in this particular case when we are talking about the minister and his negotiations. I'm not talking about back and this proposal for interpolation doesn't speak for back. It was clear that things had to be paid back, as the court had decided. But you've also agreed so far that you've moved things along. We have said that then it is better to pay them in full now, but hire one loan for this, because it will be cheaper than to keep accumulating late interest. We are talking about this work, from here on out, late interest is still accumulated, which is almost twice as high as any other. And we're gonna cover it up again for the taxpayers, that's the problem. And that's why I said that for the guy on the union side, this is a fantastic win to keep it going. That's better than everyone getting the money and going to the bank, that's the best possible investment. This is like – unfortunately you do not understand – now triumphs over the financial market. Slovenia has accepted their terms while deciding to choose the best way for them to do so, and for Slovenia the most expensive and for taxpayers the most expensive and for the Slovenian economy the worst possible, because these will be the highest taxes because they will have to pay substantially higher interest than if they accept what European solidarity aid is to solve these problems. It has, what, 0.25% interest at the moment or something like that, less than 1%. However, what you have accepted will have 5.5% and 7% interest in issuing bonds and all other forms of credit. Because these are currently the prices dictated by the global financial market. And this will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers 5 to 7 times higher and more expensive. Then you say there's a return of trust. I don't know if he's coming back, but I'm sure the champagne will open. Once again, if I now had a billion euros, I will surely deposit it in Slovenian bonds. The best possible investment, practically without risk, and the interest is fantastic, because of such a government and such a coalition that does such nonsense, to the detriment of the Slovenian economy and Slovenian taxpayers. And the minister is also an integral part of it. He wanted to prove himself to be an integral part of the success story, but in this case he has contributed, in the part where these negotiations are from today, rather than the late interest, i.e. the greater burden on entrepreneurs, the economy, all taxpayers and the worse life of all, than it could have been if they had acted rationally. For this part he is responsible and for this part interpolation is undoubtedly justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to the debate of the following panellists: as the first Bojan Starman, Mr Franz Pukšič and after him Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I am almost speechless after this long debate, I think it would be best if we all give up further discussions, most useful, and then we decide and move on to another job. Indeed, everything was said by the proposer. I think that the interpolation is more on broken foundations and does not drink water, as has been shown in Mr Virant's own response. It was easy to defend all these signs of interpolation. With regard to local self - government, he may have said certain things a little too quickly, and then he acted wisely when he saw what was going on in this area that he did not continue to do so. He also made it clear that there would be a broad debate on this, that before anything happens, we would prepare a strategy for local self-government. I think it is right and that, finally, after all the discussions, we will consider all those who are interested here at the working body in the National Assembly. I think that even in municipalities, whether small or large, they will say that there are many things that need to be done, that they are not satisfied with the situation, with the finances, with the tasks in the municipalities, with certain joint projects, with the use of European funds and all things; that good things can be done in local self-government, perhaps even in the connections of municipalities, perhaps in the establishment of landscapes or whatever. There's probably some change in the area. As they are needed everywhere, they are here. But that's not today's theme. There is no procedure and there is no need to talk about it. If we have carried out legal matters, if the Minister has implemented laws, court decisions, European and Slovenian decisions, it has been practically right and we all agree that matters have been done. There wasn't much room for manoeuvre. Some solutions had to be found that were possible and acceptable at a certain point. We really can't have special eyes here. Next thing. I think the minister's done a hard job. Who knows what it is like to negotiate where rights are cut down, to reduce income and things that are not easy to negotiate. There has been a great deal of effort to put forward this agreement, and certain things have to be given up in these negotiations. For negotiations are always such that one party and the other must give in, but the effects on public finances are significant. I think it was a very quality job done. I really don't see any real and real reasons in the area, which besides local self-government is also within its jurisdiction, it's the police and all the services that belong here, from the criminal service. They work well, there are visible movements and also some successes in specific convictions, we are on the right track and really do not see any specific reasons. I think this interpolation is really groundless. I seriously think that the debate on some points has gone so far as to ask myself when I am present and sitting in Parliament and I am a member of this Parliament, whether I really deserve my salary, as someone has said. I really think that it has been said enough and that all further debaters at their disposal will cancel the debates because they will not have added value. And even after we've shared the time for all of us to give up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Let me continue where my pal Starman ended up. My friend, I'll also suggest that all the other discussers resign when I'm done. So much for this serious proposal. I will begin where I asked Minister Virant and the government the question of the Member State in May and June. The question referred to the purchase of airline tickets. We also wrote in the interpretation that what some have already mentioned was not explained. That there was no explanation for the purchase of cards and that they were not published for their family members and that there was a suspicion of corruption. And that's what started with the headlines in the daily paper. Now we have the Minister's reply to the interpretation and he said in only three sentences on the last page that he has explained this several times. Well, that doesn't hold. If I compare this with what we received in the government's response, i.e. if I would explain with at least so much work this purchase of cards to say that the President of the Government did not provide a written explanation because we asked whether the President of the Government had requested a written explanation from him. She said she didn't ask for it. It would be right to say, that is, in its replies, that the government emphasises that, before the results of the proceedings of the competent authorities are known, it is not possible to provide a substantive answer to the question. If I were to answer in the interpretation that some procedures are ongoing, I am therefore asking him whether he knows whether there are any procedures against him and which authorities are implementing them, whether there will be an impartial implementation because the Minister is also a minister to these authorities. Since there was also some talk today about the anti-corruption commission, the Minister also spoke about it, it also states here that the procedure on the matter at the Commission for the prevention of corruption is ongoing and that more information cannot be provided in order to ensure the objectivity of the procedure. I read what I got in the government's response. And at least that much correctness, honesty and principles to Parliament and to the position I would expect. Then I wouldn't even point that out to the Minister. I hope he's listening somewhere. When he comes back, I hope that he will answer me – what about the procedures before the authorities and the procedures before the anti-corruption commission. Has he been questioned in the Senate, or has he already received an interim report? There's obviously something about the government's response. So much for this and these cards. Some of you said in your debate today that things started to bloom, things show well, things go well ahead. Thank God, if that were the case, at least one of these sentences would be used in an economic forum that was recently on the Hill. There was something completely different said by the economists. Unemployment is rising, there are no foreign investors, young people are moving out of the country, and taxes are increasing from day to day at every step. It's a big guilt or something. A large part of the blame for this financial hole that we have learned about today is certainly also on the part of the former Pahor government, which has managed to repay the country for 7 billion in only 3 years. It has not invested this in the economy, nor in new jobs, nor in investment, in anything like this; it is mainly for the preservation of some false social peace. You speak abusively, it is also on the verge of an enemy speech, about mayors attending celebrations having speeches and perhaps at some funeral – and that is almost everything. Some big and other mayors are funding colleges, building universities and so on. As far as I know, I think I know the Law on Local Self-Government, the municipalities are responsible for both pre-school protection and for the material costs of basic education, but they are not the founders of colleges, universities or anything like that. This is really insulting and unfair to the mayors, to these municipalities and, of course, to these people. On the one hand, Mr Virant was told how he worked: slowly, prudently, thoughtfully and gradually, by the government coalition or members of the National Gazette. I'd call it something different. Maybe he worked faster, he worked more ambitiously, he worked harder, maybe even authoritarianly, riskyly, and eventually he wanted to get some profit out of it, and it didn't work out. Why am I talking about this? Some coalition MPs spoke about the fact that he was ahead of things in his statements, not only in the case of local self-government, but as a Member and when he was President of the National Assembly. Those of you who were in the coalition today and were in the opposition at the time, you were very angry about this and you were saying that it was an accident, that it was authoritarian, etc. Of course, it was very bumpy and attractive for the public when he spoke about the so-called All-Slovenian referendum. Yes, the All-Slovenian referendum, he'll show. We know that this All-Slovenian referendum was attended by about 15% of citizens living in municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants. I am even sure that you would stay at such an All-Slovenian referendum to abolish-unification or. Whatever you say — you know, association means the abolition of some congregations and the association of others — probably even succeeded. And that's nice. This is popular for those in the larger congregations. So insulting and also hostile are some of you talking about mayors in small municipalities, as well as Minister Virant magnifies large congregations and talks about the anti-corruption commission, its advice and so on. And I didn't want to use it today, but I have to. He also spoke several times about the former Prime Minister of the Government. Mr. Virant knows as well as he does I used to be at the SDS party and I left. And I have no reason to defend anyone, at least. As much damage as is done to the Municipality of Destrinnik, precisely the part of the SDS in Destrinnik cannot be done by any Positive Slovenia or the United List; to understand ourselves – I am not defending anyone. I'm just the kind of guy that I always say to my face, and the best thing I can do is tell someone directly, not in the background, so no one who isn't there. I would therefore ask him today: How can he now, Mr Virant, also cooperate with Zoran Jankovic, who is still the mayor of the largest municipality in Slovenia? However, if this anti-corruption commission has recorded that it was on Zoran Jankovic's account for chain transactions that have their origin in companies operating with Mayor Zoran Jankovic. From the municipality of which he is mayor to the companies where he owns – Zoran Jankovic tu and Zoran Jankovic there. From here on out, except for this report, nothing has happened. Even more. At that time, I expected the reaction of Minister Virant when Zoran Jankovic led a government delegation in Azerbaijan, where two ministers sat left and right, and I think they were both from his party. And Mr. Virant didn't say anything about it at the time. It would be right, and I have said this several times that the authorities, both the anti-corruption commission and the law enforcement authorities, would, in a very short time, complete the procedures that are being led towards which of the politicians, officials, etc. This would be significantly better, not that for a banal matter, perhaps one of the politicians is being drawn, two years or more. On the other hand, they do not deal with certain matters that they would probably have to do, or they do not know anything about it, or they wanted to do so, but they did not have to do so. Recall, for example, the house investigation of one of the agricultural ministers of the United List, Miha Pogačnik. Two days after that, he resigned as minister. If we go back today, he wasn't guilty of anything, he didn't do anything to get convicted by any of the organs. I don't know what else is going to happen now, what Minister Roman Jakič is going to do when he admitted, both in the newspaper and in the media today, that he signed a contract that was the basis for hiring a loan. It's certainly corrupt that he signed a contract that was the basis for hiring credit. On the other hand, a mayor is criminalized in conducting a procedure with only a letter of intent or a pre-contract. Someone who should realize that later when the economy makes his own, even has the silence of the Ministry of the Interior, to whom Minister Virant presides, is leading him so that these matters do not end and are carried out for the benefit of the company – and this is how the company is being destroyed – and to the well-being of the local community, which will later have to pay the costs, as is the case with the State of Mirage. I'm glad Minister Virant was able to cut from 8 million to 700 or 800 thousand euros, thank God, and that's too much if you ask me, but here I'll give him a hook. He could take a lot of things down the road or in an authoritarian way if he wanted to talk, negotiate, and take matters into consideration. Maybe another case like that. In the Slovenian People's Party we introduced the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Servants. With the lack of understanding by the coalition, you have rejected this law, where we only wanted certain matters to be considered an argument and be an argument of power, not the other way around, and some discretionary rights in this way have been restricted. Too bad the minister's not here. Under the document is signed, Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister, 18. 4. In 2013, when he wrote the evaluation of Željko Vogrina, Chief of the Maribor Management Unit. It says, excellent, and then it also says that his contribution is to a better part of all the administrative units. Of course, it does not matter because there is no need for marriage, but it has some weight that the stamps and signatures of all mayors of the municipalities belonging to this administrative unit are in the back. And they say that according to the mayors of the municipalities in the Maribor administrative unit, they give their full support to the chief of the administrative unit so far. We wanted to change this law just so that it wouldn't happen if you gave someone such a good grade, an excellent rating, and he was commended for the work of other administrative units, exemplary for others; and then to the same place, that is, the chief of the administrative unit hired someone who wrote, talked, in my opinion, also very badly. And I'm going to read one of these files from this, Mrs. Karin Jursze, who says this, December, 3. 12.: "Well, I can't believe he's selling us out on the Reverbs. What are these crazy guys, that mob that stole money from people over the bells? How dare you. He's a gothoff too, he's lucky they don't take him out." That there was something wrong in the Bell, I agree. In the end, I hope that Dr. Krašovec will not be the only third league member to be responsible for everything and convicted of anyone else's responsibility. But a comparison where the minister himself wrote the evaluation, and now someone else takes over the post of Chief of the Administrative Unit because he has a discretionary right. Of course, the minister will know. I ask him – because someone said that he should be in the interview by asking the minister to answer – what his reasons were then, what were the better qualities of Mrs Jurša to hire her here. Colleagues and colleagues! You will remember, I still see then a fellow Member of the Parliament, Roman Jakič, who, and I agree, rightly then reacted to our government coalition, in front of the President of the National Assembly, that we are worse than the banana republic. Besides, I don't know if he used those terms, but it was pretty sharp, and I think he was right when the signatures for the referendum went missing. You know we didn't agree to this, but that's not how it works. Well, what happened. With the internal control of the National Assembly, the then president of the National Assembly, the current Minister of Interpretation, found that nothing was wrong. Moreover, interpellation was filed against Interior Minister Gorenak and it turned out that there was nothing wrong as well. But there may have been little doubt that there was only something wrong with the Ministry. For more than 8 months, Dr. Gregor Virant is a minister at the same ministry. Where did the signatures go? Or in the National Assembly, or on the way from the National Assembly to the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of the Interior? He was President of the National Assembly and is now Minister of the Interior. At least that should tell us where those signatures got lost. This indicates his infatuation, his popularity in the public, and this is how he acts. Mr Virant was Minister of Public Administration in Janšev, 2004-2008. He used to be Secretary of State to the former ministers. However, since the interior ministry of that time had a hand over local government for some time, he also knew these things. What am I trying to say? [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] Yeah, don't worry about me saying what I'm saying. Not like you who insulted and disgraced the mayors of smaller Slovenian municipalities, which you said were just for going to funerals, celebrations, and maybe you meant that the mayors eat and drink well – and that's it. I'd ask you because I've listened to you, too, to leave me alone, and I'll finish my performance the way I think it's right. Therefore, on 1 February 2008, we decided in the National Assembly on 6 laws or were to decide on the establishment of the provinces. A few votes just by the SD, at the time he was in opposition, ran out because they kept a fig in their pocket, as they usually do. Of course, they had previously agreed with Minister Zhagar, coordinated, and collaborated with the opposition, so that at times even in the coalition we were angry that he worked with them more than we did. But we were aware of the responsibility and importance of this project, and we thought it was right. So Minister Virant could still draw this legislation out, everything was prepared, so transfer from the state to the regional level, from tasks to money and people. We'd come up with one of the suggestions. You know, it would be difficult for those of us who once supported this, especially those who, at the time of the opposition or the coalition, are both principled and honest when we speak in the opposition something and when we are in the coalition, do the same thing, would not oppose the drafting of legislation on the establishment of the provinces. Now there is talk of some so-called strategy for the development of local self-government to come with it to the National Assembly. You know, if you come in the way you came in with a property tax, then it's clear that it won't go through, at least not on our side. First, after some rapid procedure on system laws that you should normally discuss, then you come in this way. That's not good. The concepts are different. Yes, I agree. And the best thing for this country would be to have, as was even envisaged and conceived in 1994, when congregations, fara-municipalities, were established in the National Assembly. It turned out that where congregations are smaller, people are also satisfied. To conclude, today the Jasa Society gave us the book The Earth has a heart at Christmas and New Year's Eve. Mr Virant will probably remember, and the Secretary-General will certainly remember, and the initiative or initiative has come at the time of his leadership of the National Assembly. the role if the National Assembly of Jas buys out some books and gives them to members of the National Assembly. This did not come across good ears, they now sought out money, funds, and themselves and donated books. When you receive them, you will see a card on the front page, and you can also help by buying a book at the holidays and giving it to whom. When you read the book Earth has a heart in which many of the children from all over Slovenia and experts who talk about it in the presentation paper, if the message of the book were to be introduced to those who write the laws, confirm them and influence the work of the population by their own example, the quality of life in Slovenia would be markedly increased, our descendants would have more opportunities. We often hear from good acquaintances of the earth, water, fire, life — the earth has a heart. Mr Virant: Slovenian municipalities have a soul, have people, Slovenian municipalities live and live. Be respectful of Slovenian municipalities, do not be self-indulgent, authoritarian, risky, sloping; and be broad enough in the future, because as a minister you must be very principled, you must unite, not disunite.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u97	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare for Mr. Happy Meh. Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I'm sorry the Minister isn't here because my memory goes back a lot, and I'm going to tell some Ahasuerus in my performance, and the Minister is here, okay. [[...]] First, I would touch on the question of the congregations. I find it extremely incorrect to have the data that 80% of people are against such a number of municipalities, because it is the same as asking people whether you are in favour of abolishing Parliament. Of course they're in. But if we ask what is wrong with the congregations or your congregation, they will say no. But let's just leave it. I have prepared some data, say the size of a municipality by square kilometers, and the size of a municipality by population. I have information for Austria, Croatia, Italy, Hungary, Switzerland and Germany and, of course, Slovenia. We have Switzerland by the number of square meters because they have 13 square miles [13 sq km] of large municipalities; Hungary, which has 31 square miles [31 sq km] of large municipality, in Austria, is 36 square miles [36 sq km], with us 60 square miles [96 sq km]. They are even bigger than us in Croatia, Italy and Germany. But if we look at the number of inhabitants, which I think is an independent criterion and an important criterion, look at what we're getting at. The municipality of Austria has 3 thousand 478 inhabitants, the Croatian municipality is 8 thousand 182, the Italian municipality is 7 thousand 420, Hungary 3 thousand 333, Switzerland 2 thousand 577, Germany 6 thousand 845. And you will not believe that by the number of inhabitants, Slovenian municipalities are the largest, with 9 thousand 525 inhabitants. If we take these criteria, there is no reason to abolish the congregations. And another piece of information. France has 36 000,763 municipalities, beware, 32 000 municipalities have fewer than 2 000 people and 22 000 municipalities have fewer than 500 people. Well, from this point of view, I think it's a shot in the air. Minister, you also talked about the number of employees in the congregations. Let me remind you that the congregations have existed for 19 years and that you are the one who has been granting permits for the number of employees in the congregations for 10 years. As you know, the criteria laid down by the State are the extent to which there can be systemization in the municipalities. And this systemization is in your hands from 2000 to 2008, then in the time of the Pahor government and the other Janša government no longer, and now again. I think it would be right for the number to decrease because the number is not any smart criteria. In the municipality, where you live alone, there are 26 people working in the municipality, which is the municipality of Šmarje pri Jelšah; and the neighbouring municipality of Podčetrtek, which is much more successful after the uptake of funds, has 4 employees and 3 000 people. I'll continue through your performance, you're talking about Mirage. Mr Pukšič has taken a few seats, if I may say so, this is more the success of Mrs Trivic's attorney. It has succeeded with the audit, but it is true that the Ministry of Interior is helping. You've talked a lot about the police, although it's probably the only intervention against the interior minister. I think there were only two people in history who didn't experience it, and we all did. This is just the way it is. In this interpretation, which I think is really one of the few or only ones where there is no mention of police or police. It's 1 term, I didn't even find it. You talked a lot about the police. I'm glad, I agree with everything, crime, persecution, the number of dead and so on. I agree with that, but I cannot agree with what you said was that planning the mass of wages last year was unrealistic. Planning the mass of wages last year was real, but the concept was completely different. And I think he was far more just than the current concept. Why? At the time of the Janša government, we made it very clear that the responsibility for spending on consumers, public institutions, hospitals, schools, kindergartens and so on is the same at the state level. This concept seems much more fair to me. If I'm comparing the army and I'm comparing the police, which we both know well, the police have lost. At the time of entry into and shortly after Schengen, there were 11,000 employees. It is true that there was then a reorganisation and that these joint services went to the Ministry, but the number of employees declined. I think the number 1 000 500 people are approaching if we speak from the time of our admission to Schengen until today. The police have already made their cash sacrifices. The school never gave them up, never. But when we said that principals should be responsible for the amount of wages, Struklej allegedly brought 30,000 demonstrators to Ljubljana. And now I think this government has rewarded Struggle and rewarded the schoolchildren. Why? Because you've brought everyone down and that doesn't seem fair to me. I don't think that's fair, but it was actually planned in the previous government. We actually said that that minister, that principal, I don't know who, the director, would fly away if he didn't pull the plug. And that's the way it is. Now, then, those who are so and so are speculators who spend too much for years. You said correctly that nothing had been done around the Compensation Act, as I had not yet had to do so. I had certain tasks that were done. That interim report that was supposed to be 26. On the 12th, it was 26. 1. it has also been accepted and with a Strasbourke permit. Then all that was left was the law. I think the law would have formed. It'd probably come out a little different. I, for one, would not meet with them, because meeting with them is without connection, so they will never be satisfied. It's clear they won't. I mean deleted. [[Incomprehensible.]] I don't think you're right. It's an obvious fact that they're not going to do anything, because it's not even about time. Time was in the next few months. I have to be critical here. You were talking about how the abolition of the State Council was and how they spoke the same way as the SDS said. That's not right. Why isn't it right? For a basic reason, because it suits you today. But look, in 2006/2007 we also planned to partially abolish the Commission to prevent corruption – let me remind you that you were the author of these ideas – and that we had already foreseen in the budget less funds for them and that we had already foreseen what the Court of Auditors agreed to transfer to the Court of Auditors. I remember the debates we had, when you were extremely critical of the Commission to prevent corruption. I think the current situation is fine with you. But I am critical of the Anti-Corruption Commission, and I will also explain why. The whole of Slovenia is engaged in this famous resignation of the Commission to prevent corruption. With them you meet, with whom the prosecution meets, I do not know about the judiciary I have not yet seen, NGOs – they all shout as if it were the end of the world. No, it's not the end of the world. We need to compare their work or the corruption index with what has also happened these days because Slovenia is in 34th place or 6th place. Where is the best situation in terms of corruption? The best situation is in Denmark and Sweden. Denmark and Sweden do not have any anti-corruption committees. They have the police, the prosecution and the judiciary – and they have the best status. From this point of view, we do not need a commission to prevent corruption, because it will be best if the police, the prosecution and the judiciary act. Do we then need a commission to prevent corruption? I think it's better that we do. I'm not interested in your card, I'm not going to talk about the cards, that's what the others said. I am interested in Klemenčič and the arbitration of this person and the institution that he is still leading. That's what I'm interested in. How could Mr Klemenčič search for those signatures between you and me within 10 days, but many discussions were needed. We both know that there's an extremely biased report in the file, an arbitration report where he attacked me, and you're nothing. And the signatures from the National Assembly came to me for 40 hours or even two days, and that's legal, because it's not obvious. And he told me that he could answer 26 hours earlier. And that's why I have to apologize to the Slovenian people and that this is corruption and I don't know what it is. See, that's bias. Where else do I see Mr. Klemenčič's bias? Some things he does, some he doesn't want to do. Simply, he's a god who does some things and doesn't want others. Let's be correct and give examples. He's been watching those cards for six months. I'm not interested in tickets. I'm interested in Klemenčič and his work, which he doesn't want to do. The appointment of Mr. Skrlec. I invited him in his role as Minister of the Interior to assess what happened to the appointment of Mr Škrlec. He studied this for a year, and the administrative court said at that time: The Attorney General, Dr. Fisher, abused the law in the event of his appointment. The court said that Klemenčič had abused the law, and Klemenčič was still studying whether or not something was wrong. So he's fucking around. Two more cases — he immediately found John Janša’s controversial employment and corruption and his daughter’s employment. He immediately found Mr Tank's controversial actions and his son's employment in the pipelines. That was corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u99	Mr. Gorenak. May I remind you that the point of interpretation is against the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u100	I'm talking about the Minister. You weren't there.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u101	I tried to follow, but I think you went to Mr. Klemenčič, not the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u102	I come to the end quite nicely, believe me. Look, at the same time, Mr Masleš's son's employment is not corruption. It's not. The employment of the daughter of Mr Türk, former President, is not corruption. Such a commission to prevent corruption, a respected minister, does not fall for it. I believe it suits you very well right now. Well, that fits the entire left political option, but in the long run, that's not it. That's a fact, and no one's gonna convince me of that. Minister, you also spoke about Mr Janša's property and the KPK report and his corruption. I have to respond here. In this report, none of the party's presidents, all of you were investigators or, as it were, none of the party's presidents explained the origin of assets worth less than 10,000 euros. Not one. Not one of them, because they didn't even ask. What they did to one president, who happens to be named Janez Janša, on Telekom, they checked their phone bills for EUR 8 and found that they were paid, but it is not clear who paid them. They checked the registration of the car in 2005 and found it paid, but they didn't know who paid. Which one of us or any of you, the president's clients, can say these things for 2005? For an eight-euro bill. Who's got the receipt? Nobody. That's the problem with this commission. And what I blame you for is next. Now I'm gonna be personal. We met in June 2000. We were both Secretary of State to the Bajuk government. We both came to politics about that time, at least I, at this level, both of us grew up with Janez Janša as a politician, both of us. It must be said that we were his disciple, politically speaking, and his companion. One day you decided to do what you decided to do. This is your right, but I don't think it's your right to insult him in the absence. And it would be good if you didn't. There's something else. In particular, it has been pointed out by your side, as usual by the coalition Members, when you have been convicted of corruption, you have also stressed this, and that is why I am touching it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also followed by a legal one, one or the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u103	Dr. Gorenak, can you explain to us and to all the public where you have a starting point for this debate, because the minister against whom the interpretation is filed did not talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u104	That's what I'm talking about. I'll explain. The minister talked about it, the president. He spoke of the KPK report and spoke of the unlawfully condemned Mr Janša. Allow me, you have not heard this to answer; and please, if you respect this. John Janša was imprisoned in 1988. Yeah, they locked him up. It doesn't matter what happens on stage two. It doesn't matter. In a way, it doesn't matter. There is every possibility in our judicial and prosecutorial system. I believe he's not afraid of any of these options. After all, he has experience with prison if you want. The question is whether the Slovenian judiciary and the Slovenian political left will allow themselves to negate the same court, the European Court of Human Rights, in a few years' time. That's the only question. There are no other questions here. And I would be very careful, as I said before, we were both his passengers and his apprentices, and I find it ugly to talk to him like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u106	I don't know if I'm in the right session or if I'm not in the right session. We are now talking about interpolation against Mr Virant, whether we are talking about Janez Janša, or everything else that has happened here. We're talking about everything here today. What should be discussed in particular is what was discussed at the outset and what you wrote down. I think that the aim of interpolation is not content and not truth, but that the aim of interpolation is actually to enter this space, into Parliament and beyond confusion, mistrust, an extraordinary situation. Remember, opposition Members and Members of Parliament, when you spoke about the fact that you cannot examine the material, that we are constantly here, that we have been at meetings too long, that there are always some extraordinary meetings. Who's the biggest generator of everything that's going on? Ladies and gentlemen, it would be really good today to speak as is the case that we are speaking in an reasoned manner, to ask our opinion that we are not hurting to conclude this meeting as soon as possible, so that we can really talk about any other problem. Of course, the question is whether the congregations do or not. And a question that's been asked wrong. They are municipalities, and the congregations will remain. But how to organize these congregations, how to organize local self - government, is a substantive question of what they will do, how they will be organized. And this question was open, it wasn't closed, it was said, and we're going to have to work on it a lot. Today, some say that if people asked if there were too many congregations, they would answer yes. And that's probably what people would say. What did you say to the organizers of signatures against real estate tax? You said you had 70,000 signatures, and then there were exactly the same arguments. Thus, there are people against something, and we must be in order to get the right congregations, and that is the point. Now there's something else, the well-respected opposition or interpelling proponents. Why are Mr. Virant's cards bothering you today? Why weren't you disturbed 1 year ago? Because you were in the coalition. So it's about perversion, it's about something that's wrong, and it's not good that it's happening here today. And talk about KPK, about what someone thinks about KPK, actually talk about legislation. We've adopted legislation here. It's legislation that needs to be respected. It is also necessary to respect the KPC because it is an institution that must protect citizens and citizens. And if the KPK doesn't suit anyone, I suggest an interpolation, you're smart about it. It would be very interesting to listen to the interpretation against KPK and Mr Klemenčič. I feel like we're talking to the unions and we're negotiating with the unions. And, of course, it is right that we have made an end, so at least I hope and believe, the possible end of the greatest shame the Slovenian state has ever had. It's about our erased and the stain we had. Here have been great successes with which Virant, which you are interpolating or interpolating today, can be commended. And I'm sure it can count on what he did well, and he needs to admit it. So once again, we're talking about interpolation, speaking, talking about the content of the problems, leaving personal and all the other labels on the side and maintaining our human dignity. Otherwise, I wish that people would not look at us so that they would not listen to what we say here often because for the first time it is unworthy, the second time often unreal, and everyone is using what suits him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u107	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the word, and the mag is being prepared. Ivan Vogrin. Here you go, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Madam President. After Mr Meh's debate, it is very difficult for me to start because I also agree with his conclusions that today we are bringing confusion and mistrust into this Chamber. However, I think that, with regard to the comment he had on the KPK, I would also like to say the following. I think so too, so I join his position that we give too little respect in this country to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, that we give it too little validity and that we have not prepared the appropriate legislation for this Commission to do as it should and would have wanted. And I think that, with the recent resignation, they wanted to tell us exactly that, including in the National Assembly, which we are actually obliged to adopt such legislation, so that this Commission can work and justify its existence. So if I now return to the matter that we are dealing with today under this item of the agenda, it is an interpretation against the Minister of the Interior, Mr Virant. I also believe that this interpellation is unfounded and therefore unnecessary. And I will justify this, even though this has been said several times today, and since it is still available for so long, I will repeat it myself. Interpellation is evident to Minister Virant that he has announced the abolition of individual congregations, so it is written. The Minister explained that it would be necessary for certain smaller municipalities to unite or at least establish joint professional services to think about it. His fault is because he was thinking out loud and because everyone heard it and now they're reading it to him. But I think, as some debaters have already said before me, when we think about rationalising our services in the country and when we are looking for a way out of this crisis, we also need to think about rationalising some services at the level of local self-government, because we also partially finance local self-government from the state budget. The second point of interpretation concerns the signing of the expert agreement and the agreement on additional wage measures and other public sector labour costs, which Mr Virant concluded and signed with representative public sector unions. The Minister’s reply was that he had achieved large savings, which he justified and also wrote in his reply to the interpolation. His answer convinced me. I estimate that he acted wisely and usefully because he saved the country considerable resources. The third paragraph of the interpolation refers to the Law on the method of payment of the third quarter of the abolition of salary imbalances. This ensures equal treatment of all beneficiaries and prevents additional costs of judicial proceedings as well as enforcement proceedings. That's what the minister said, and that's exactly what he's saying. Failure to comply with these obligations would result in the making of judgments, in this case the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the principles of the rule of law. The following point on which the interpolation is based is apparent to him that in the case of deleted persons, he did not act in accordance with the views of the good master and that he has ensured that the liquidated persons are compensated for the consequences of the excessive amount. I believe that with the implementation of the judgment of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, the Minister has made sure that this judgment is implemented and that the damage they have suffered or suffered has been compensated to all those who have been erased. The damages they will receive will not, otherwise, remedy all the injustices caused by the removal, but will at least partially bring satisfaction to the victims for all they have suffered in connection with the erasure. However, it is important that the State should pay significantly lower damages than would have been awarded by the European Court of Human Rights if the actions had been brought. Today, the Minister also said that Europe understood our position, because our compensations offered are lower than expected to be deleted and that we are counting on this to be regulated as it is intended. This will finally end or end this shameful case of erased, which has lasted for 20 years. It must be said that Minister Virant acted fairly and effectively in this matter. This has also removed the stain that has been or has been read to us by Europe. This interpretation against Minister Virant is not justified in my opinion and, of course, I will vote against the interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-12-12-SDZ6-Izredna-50.ana.u109	Thank you, too. Mr. Proposer? [[...]] I had a motion to suspend the session because it's at nine colleges. Could you then proceed with the meeting? Thanks for understanding. Dear colleagues, I interrupt the first item of the agenda. I also interrupt the 50th Extraordinary Session, which we will continue tomorrow, 13. 12. 2013, 10 a.m. Members of the College are informed that the 76th meeting of the College will begin at 21:00 in room 217.
