ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Member of Parliament, Dr Ljubica Jelusic from 17:00 on and Mr Jožef Kavtičnik from 15.30 on. Once again, I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's an effigy of a bill amending the system of payments in the public sector, a restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. At its 9th session, on 12 February 2013, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the home labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. I'll give you the word "magic" first. Katarina Hočevar for presentation of the position of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice to meet you all! In the Citizens' List, we regret that the amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Wage System in the home labour system has not received sufficient support. The proposed amendments to the law would eliminate the allowances for specialisation, Master's degree and doctorate to almost 7,000 public servants. Public servants are entitled to the supplement today, provided that they have obtained an appropriate scientific title in the direction of professional education, which is linked to the content of the work and is not a condition for employment. The right to an allowance is thus not linked to the results of the work of a public servant, not to its work efficiency and not to the conditions of employment. It's kind of just about the personal circumstances of the employee. If we want to continue to modernise public administration in Slovenia and to achieve the goal of this good service to citizens, then we must reward effective work and not only formal education, which is also welcome, but other competences and knowledge of public servants, which often contribute more to the more successful work of public servants, are unfortunately ignored in the public administration. The existing regulation could be said to be discriminatory in some way, namely to all those public servants who occupy jobs with the required lower level of education than they have, but this education is not a specialisation, a Master's degree or a doctorate. These public officials shall not receive any supplement for their higher education. If a similar proposal is put into the parliamentary procedure in the future, we are in favour of Members and Members of the National List. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendment to the Law on wage changes in the public sector, the main purpose of which is to abolish the right to an allowance for specialisation, Master's degree and doctorate in those jobs in the public sector that do not require such levels of education, was in principle supported by the Slovenian People's Party in the Parliamentary Group. We have assessed that such an intervention in the rights of public servants is still permissible and follows the objective of reducing public expenditure. The estimated savings at the annual level in the event of the implementation of this law would amount to approximately EUR 5.5 million. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the existing regime, which will obviously remain, can lead to an unequal position between public servants who do not have a scientific title and those who have one, while both perform exactly the same jobs in jobs for which, for example, a higher level of education is sufficient. On the other hand, in the public sector, jobs for which the name of a Master or a Doctor of Science is required are relatively small, while all public officials possessing scientific titles and are entitled to an allowance are almost 7,000. Perhaps it would be a little unusual for all those who have invested their energy, time and speed to also be completely deprived of the right to the said supplement, as this would indirectly destroy their efforts to prepare scientific work. This would probably also affect their motivation for work. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not feel overly sorry that the legislative procedure for the consideration of the novel Public Sector Wages Act has already ended on the home labour body. Nevertheless, we remind the future coalition that it is taking a serious approach to rationalising the public sector and is continuing the work of the current government in this area. Derogation from the already adopted and proposed systemic changes in the public sector can pose a serious threat to the consolidation of public finances, without which it is not realistic to expect economic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good and good morning to all, honourable Members and Members! Dessus' position is as follows. The procedure for the law in question, which has not been successfully examined at the meeting of the parent committee, is terminated. Therefore, in this part of the examination, the latter is simply identified and not determined by the law itself or its contents. It is true that the aim of the applicants was to introduce this law merely and only rationality, prudence and legitimacy in the use of public funds, i.e. savings. However, even if this is a austerity objective, which is certainly necessary today, the rules of procedure for the adoption of legislation must be followed. This is where the government has ignorantly bypassed the basic rules for drafting legislative proposals. Trade union representatives have already made this clear at a meeting of the working body. They said that it had never been completely ignored by the coordination process so far, that this had happened for the first time after 10 years of the law, which was based on all agreements on the principle of coordination with public sector employees, and that such conduct was a precedent for the government. Not because of the content of the proposed law, but because of the way in which it is drafted and because of the ignorant attitude towards social dialogue, I did not support myself at the working body meeting of the proposal. I am convinced that even more needs to be discussed during the crisis and the adoption of austerity measures, even if the final stage does not lead to acceptable conclusions. We need to cooperate. That's just the way the times are. We are therefore proposing to the government, not only in relation to this law, but also in the drafting of legislation, that it be negotiated and that it also try to agree that it should therefore comply with the basic rules of conduct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act deals with the abolition of an allowance for specialisation, Master's degree and doctorate, to which public servants are entitled under the present law, where specialisation or academic title is not a condition for the performance of the work. This allowance is therefore justified by a public official on the basis of the academic title obtained from the direction of professional education required for the performance of the work or related to the content of the work. In Novi Slovenija, we supported the proposal for amendments to that law for the same reason on the Home Committee for Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. This is due to a reduction in public financial expenditure. The abolition of this supplement would reduce the expenditure of state and municipal budgets by around €5.5 million per year. In view of the fact that we have reduced public expenditure by other legal bases, such as the Public Finance Balance Act, and in particular the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, we estimate that the objective pursued by that Act is proportionate to this intervention in the payment system. Otherwise, I stress that in New Slovenia we advocate the accessibility of studies to all students at all levels, i.e. at the postgraduate study. The individual thus acquires appropriate competences and personal potential in effective and constructive cooperation not only at work but also in his broader social environment. Especially in growing societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u10	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a nice good morning on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group and on my behalf. Although the amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System on the Home Committee was rejected, it is also right to state the opinion we have drawn up in Positive Slovenia on the law that has been proposed and is thus doomed to failure today. It seems to us that the amendment of the law has been very unfairly directed to all those who are educated, who have obtained some scientific, professional titles and who receive these contributions by means of this novel. It is simply a matter of some very reasoned reasons, for which Positive Slovenia has rejected and is actually pleased, we are pleased that the law has not experienced a further positive fate. The first reason is that the novelty was an infringement of the collective agreement in the public sector. We know that this novel was created on the basis of a government decision at the 41st regular meeting of the Government 12. 12. 2012 that the Government and no one consulted employees or trade unions in the public sector before. Thus, it was a unilateral intervention that would simply delete all of these allowances that employees have, those that have acquired a name in the public sector. The Public Sector Wages Act has already seen a lot of changes, and all the changes have been made in such a way that coordination with social partners, i.e. employees and trade unions in the public sector, was first coordinated and then saw the light of the world. But in the end, if we look at the fact that it was simply a desire to cut all these contributions to salaries, I pay those who have acquired a professional title, then we can ask ourselves if we are a learning society. Are we for being a society of knowledge? Or perhaps they would not interfere with the denial of the entire educational system, and they would not eventually offend all those who have obtained their education in one way or another, either at work or at work. After all, as has already been established, someone who acquires a professional title can probably do more, more professionally and more qualitatively in a work that does not require a professional title. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we regret nothing about the collapse of this novel, but we expect that they will be in the next attempt to correct these anomalies as they have been made so far. Therefore, if the prepared novelties are adopted, then they would not be harmonised, they will not be in line with the social partners, the unions and the public sector employees, so as not to cause any further major injustice to all those who would otherwise take this allowance to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Ms Sonja Ramšak will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u12	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary-General, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has not received sufficient support on the home labour body, as the solutions proposed are a response to a tightening public finances situation that requires some proportionate and justified interference with existing rights. The proposed amendment of the law is aimed at reducing the volume of allowances not directly linked to the working conditions and needs of the work process, with a view to ensuring the rational, prudent and legitimate use of public funds. With the proposed amendment, the government has proposed the abolition, as has already been said, of a specialisation allowance of 46.54 euros, a master's degree of EUR 72.41 or a doctorate of EUR 118.94, or calculated to be saved at an annual level of EUR 5 million 501 thousand, 199 gross. Let me reiterate that it is a matter of abolishing additives that are not linked to the working conditions and needs of the work process, so it was already not clear to us on the home labour body that we were already opposed to this amendment by representatives of opposition parties and not by representatives of representative public sector unions. Some obviously do not understand that, as in the economy, interventions are needed in the public sector. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, at the expense of such savings, jobs could be avoided, which would certainly be better, since, according to a rough estimate, they could maintain between 100 and 150 jobs. I hope that soon there will also be reform or changes in the wage system in the public administration, where more emphasis will be placed on the day of the remuneration of employees who are creative and innovative in their work, as part of the salary will depend on the results of the work. It would also be interesting to analyse the assessments received by public servants in recent years when they received an allowance for specialisation, Master’s degree or doctorate and see whether they were above-average public servants or those who were also evaluated by superiors with the highest grades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u14	Your Honor! Social Democrats strongly opposed this bill on the home labour body. However, in the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I would like to stress the following. We also said a few critical words about the behaviour of the outgoing government on the draft laws coming from the justice ministry at this meeting when the amendment to the criminal procedure law was being considered. Proposals for legislative texts intended to be coordinated with the professional and other interested public differed from the legal text that we then discussed here in the National Assembly. However, it was shown that the texts were fully harmonised. In this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Sector Wages Scheme, the amendment proposed by the amendment already in the introduction itself stated that the proposal for a law was not submitted for coordination and was prepared directly on the basis of an agreement at the 41st meeting of the Government of 12. 12. 2012. The purpose of this novelty is to abolish the allowance for specialization, Master's degree and doctoral degree, if this is not a condition for employment. The reason is the tightening of the public finances situation. Following the adoption of the ZUJF, the number of employees decreased either by retirement or dismissal. However, in some areas of government or public administration, the reduction of employees could also pose a risk to employees and, in particular, to service users. The government that is leaving at this time is obviously not interested in the state of public finances and the state budget. Let me stress – I don't care. This is shown mainly in these last, two, three weeks of employment through modified calls for faithful supporters. On the one hand, it is employed across all levels of good taste, and on the other hand, it is employed by public servants who are not only ministers but also employees in health care, education, education and in the homes of older and other institutions, including culture, and elsewhere, constantly threatens to be paid at work or at lower wages. As I recall, at the time of the adoption of the Law on Public Servants and the Law on the Public Sector Wages Scheme, it has been repeatedly stressed that it is in the interests of the State to further educate public servants and thus contribute to the provision of a better public service. While there is no progress, there is no work performance and wages in the public sector are constantly falling, I believe that at least these supplements should remain. At least until the Government has agreed otherwise with the union and other relevant interlocutors. And to make it easier to understand why we are so strongly opposed. Superstandard education, watch out, it's scientific titles, many have earned their own costs at a time when they've given up a lot of money and a lot of investment in their knowledge. Without a scientific title, it is not possible to participate in many symposiums, meetings of experts across Europe and the world. How will they acquire new knowledge? We are once again witnessing this rule of the existing government, the less educated nation, the better. And what an addition, people, look! A specialist gets a monthly allowance of 46.54 cents gross. That's 30 euros. How much coffee is that? How many professional literature can he buy for it, and where can he go for professional training? However, if I am accepted by a specialist in some activity, in health care or elsewhere, instead of a regular doctor who has a higher salary of 30 euros and therefore treats me better, I am receiving a better service, which is an extremely cheap service for me. Master’s degree €72.61 gross and scientific doctorate € 119 gross. Let's bring in an army from Afghanistan, and from where else, let's sell one patriot, and solve all these scientific titles with our left hand. I hope the new government and unions will have more sense in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you, too. I note that we have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a defence proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act, a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, first signed by Janije Möderndorfer. At its 12th meeting, on 20 February 2013, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Roman Žveglič, who will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u16	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, good afternoon! Today's conclusion that the proposal for a novel on the Slovenian State Holding on the Working Body did not receive support for further consideration would be useful in the Slovenian People's Party to comment on the current developments around the basic version of the law. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we voted in the Slovenian People's Party's Group against the amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act, proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia. I believe that today, when the political situation is different from that of the marriage proposal, there is no longer such a burning desire to change the composition of the supervisory board of the holding company, in particular to give more power to the opposition or even more to demand that some decisions be given the full consent of the supervisors, which is truly utopian. We have also explained several times why a society such as a state holding company cannot be a classical undertaking to provide information of a public nature, because this would simply make its work very difficult. Only the point concerning the powers of the Court of Auditors remains. Let me be perfectly clear on this point. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the provision that the Court of Auditors may review the operation of the holding company and its subsidiaries or those where the country has a majority ownership stake. At the time we also had a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the Slovenian People's Party, where this matter was regulated along with some editorial amendments to the law. Despite promises, the proposal has not yet arrived at the National Assembly, and we regret this, because it would be right to include this provision in the existing law. Now let me say a few more words about the current state of affairs around this legislation. The Slovenian State Holding Act entered into force at the end of December 2012. The legal deadlines are running out, but we have neither the Supervisory Board nor the classification of investments, only to have an administration that could start work. Members of the Slovenian People's Party do not know what the future holds for the Slovenian State Holding because they want to join the new government – one that it has prepared, and the other that has been very opposed to it all the time. At present, there is also a heated debate within the new emerging coalition. However, we need to know that we do not accept any excuses in the Slovenian People's Party, why Slovenian property should continue to be managed as it has been. We all know what happened in the past, we see where the practice has brought us, we have seen what it means when political officials order state-owned companies to buy shares, recapitalise banks and so on. I therefore appeal today that you take a decision as soon as possible, initiate legal procedures and let the holding company operate and for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia manage its assets according to international standards and criteria. Holding was not prepared for sale or for majority, as some have shouted. It was designed to make citizens and citizens even know what their assets are, to see in one place, whether we know how to manage this property and eventually to get something out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u18	Good-bye to all of you! Thank you for your word. Since the procedure under consideration for the non-admission of articles and laws has already been fully completed at the meeting of the home working body, Members will not even vote on it. Nevertheless, on this occasion, let me briefly comment on the content of the proposed law. The Slovenian State Holding Act introduces innovations into the management of assets owned directly or indirectly by the State. When we in the Democratic Party of Pensioners as a coalition partner were able to form the content of the law and later decided to confirm it, we were confident, and we still believe and believe that this new concept can achieve the objective of good and economic governance of the country's investment, and in particular transparent governance for the benefit of the country and the benefit of the citizens. In order to do so, we are always ready to improve, and this, according to our assessment, also brings the proposed amendment to the law. The amendments to the basic law included in the amendment of the law of Positive Slovenia were also prepared to be made by the Government in departure. A while ago, the then coalition partners discussed the government's draft amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act together with the proposal by Positive Slovenia and agreed that by submitting a government proposal, we could come up with common solutions on the home labour body. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. In our Group of Members, we aim to ensure that the management of the country's capital investments is fully transparent and in the spirit of achieving public interest. We therefore support that the holding is subject to the supervision of the Court of Auditors, that the conduct of the holding must be in accordance with public procurement rules and ensure access to public information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Slovenian State Holding Act has barely brought us well through the legislative process, has not even come to life, and a proposal for amendments and additions has already been tabled. Let us recall what all possible legal institutions, legal and political manoeuvres have been used to prevent the adoption of this law, although we are probably only united in policy, that the way of managing capital investments so far has not been adequate and, above all, has been ineffective. Capital investments in previous years did not yield adequate returns. Let us also recall the votes in individual state-owned companies' assemblies when different state-owned investment managers, KAD, SOD, DSU and also AUKN, acted and voted in opposition because they pursued different objectives. Is that right? Such a situation had to be overcome. Through SDH, the management of state property is easier, more transparent and more efficient. Clearly, this is not the common objective of all political parties. In spite of all the blockades, the law was adopted and the process of establishing the Slovenian State Holding was also initiated, which is unfortunately not completed. The adoption of the SDH Investment Classification Act, the Investment Management Strategy and so on should be required. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted the SDH Investment Classification Act and forwarded it to Parliamentary Procedure. Members of the newly formed coalition voted to withdraw the classification of investments from the agenda of the parent working body. Therefore, since the classification of SDH investments is not accepted, SDH cannot start managing capital investments. We did not support the proposed amendments to the SDH Act at the parent body meeting. Most of the solutions proposed even go against the basic principles of this law. Let me get this straight on one case. The proposer of legal changes, the Positive Slovenia, proposed a solution to ensure the commitment of SDH and their subsidiaries to access public information. This would, in their view, ensure transparency in the operation of SDH. The current Act on Access to Public Information ensures the use of information of a public nature available to public authorities, local authorities, public agencies, public funds and other persons of public law, public authorities and public service providers. This law therefore does not oblige the transmission of company data. Pursuant to the Act in force on Slovenian State Holding, SDH is a public shareholder company and operates under the Company Act. I think there's a problem with understanding this law. For SDH, the information of this company, at least some information, must be protected as a business secret. In the negotiation procedures, disclosure of information to the public would pose a risk to the successful completion of the investment made and such content of the legislative proposal could not be supported. We would point out, however, that the business of SDH, as is the case with all public shareholders, will be made aware of its business through the public information portal of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. This information shall include a public publication on all business events, such as a reference to the Society's Assembly, information on securities issued, the conclusion of important contracts, legal proceedings and the like. So far, the opposition party has been trying to convince the public that it is the creation of SDH, or even more – the sale of state property. The same objective is also pursued when proposing amendments and supplementing this law. Of course it's demagogy. The management of capital investment is not only about sales but also about recapitalisation by the holder and investors of strategic partners and other types of management. Then let me end with fear. For I fear that the current emerging coalition will also realize these predictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of the Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u22	Your Honor! Actually, it's time to start at the end. At the 12th session of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, indeed, even after the non-lovers and I have, as well as the comic events and procedural complications involved in the vote, the Committee has not adopted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Slovenian State Holding. Since the articles of the draft law were not adopted, it is on the basis of the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the examination of the proposal on the home labour body has been completed. He therefore experienced exactly the same fate as in June 2012 by Positive Slovenia prepared an alternative proposal for the State Capital Investment Management Act. At that time, the coalition spent less than 10 minutes to recognize him as inappropriate. And it is, in the opinion of the political parties, both in the opinion of the public concerned, one of the most important national issues. After all the peripetions and institutes that have been used, even the politically inappropriate ones, we in Positive Slovenia have decided to propose amendments to the law in those parts where we think the slips are the most obvious. The solutions, which I have been discreetly stressing discreetly, were not opposed by the then Minister of Finance, at least not in most of the articles. The basic objective of the new law was to implement an improved concept that would ensure more transparent governance and protection of state property. The main solutions we proposed were: ensuring access to information of a public nature and, as we have heard today, that this is controversial; the commitment of SDH and its subsidiaries to apply the provisions on public procurement and control of statements by the Court of Auditors. The transparency of management should be ensured by the balanced representation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the holding company, whose choice would be based on their expertise and, above all, on their experience. We're repeating what we've heard. Most of the professional institutions and the competent body of the Council of State also supported the amendment with reasoned comments, which we later included in the amendments. The opinion of the government of the novel has not been favoured, but it has not challenged those supplements regarding the application of the procurement rules, the one involved, Article 1 and the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors, this is Article 5. This is probably why the government representative on the competent committee has ensured that the government will prepare the amendments to the law itself, which shows, of course, that the Government knows that the law is not perfect and that is good. Sadly, though, actions did not follow the promised course. The correction of the law which had been promised has unexpectedly overtaken the proposal for investment management guidelines and the classification of investments of the Slovenian State holding company. Let me get this straight. At this point, it's hard to say in the light of these events, who really wants the holding company good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Ms Patricia Šulin will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u24	President, thank you for your word. Greetings to all present! The Slovenian State Holding Act adopted the National Assembly at its meeting on 23 October 2012 governing the status and functioning of the Slovenian State Holding, the transfer of investments by the Republic of Slovenia in the holding of SDH, the management of investments and acts, and the management of investments. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which we are considering today, contains an obligation to apply the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. We understand the content objective of the procurement and the purpose to which they are following the applicant, but we stress that SDH is already subject to the Public Procurement Act and is also a party to it. The proposed provisions to ensure that all subsidiaries comply with public procurement rules run counter to the European regulation on the basis of which the Public Procurement Act was adopted. We stress that some public companies are already committed to awarding contracts under the Public Procurement Act 2 when they carry out activities of general interest. Similarly, the existing law already contains a commitment to disclose to the public the information, as is the case for all public limited companies, so that the public will be informed in due time and of all relevant aspects of the way the holding company operates, as is also defined in the Public Equity Company Management Code. The law also contains other provisions that contribute to the transparent and responsible management of state property, and therefore the provision of applicants by which the Slovenian State Holding could be designated as a debtor in accordance with the law governing access to information is inappropriate and unnecessary, since any additional disclosure obligation could pose a risk to the failure to complete certain investment management procedures. We also stress the crucial importance of calling in the Supervisory Board trustworthy, professionally qualified candidates, with top competences that are independent, without interfering with policy in their work, so that the length of the term of office of the members of the Supervisory Board is not equal to the length of the term of office of the National Assembly. It is also entirely sufficient for the Supervisory Board to decide on the recapitalisation without taking this decision unanimously or in the event of an unanimity decision, to adopt this decision by the competent working body of the National Assembly, which would mean that the policy is administered and not by qualified experts, which is unacceptable to us. The provisions of the previous law ensure the efficient management of investments and the timely implementation of emergency recapitalisation measures, as well as the transparency and information of the National Assembly through new recapitalisation measures. The proposed provision for the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the accounts and operations of SDH and its independent companies in accordance with the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors and for the Court of Auditors to submit the audit report to the National Assembly makes sense, but in our opinion it is not fully resolved. The Slovenian Democratic Party will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Social Democrats are not disturbed by the question of who wants or does not want to benefit the Slovenian State Holding Company. We are disturbed by the question of who wants state property, companies in the majority majority or partial ownership of the country good or bad. We see this property as the development potential of this country. In determining the fate of this property, we must be particularly careful in times of crisis not to destroy the developmental substance represented today by this property by reckless moves. The proposed amendments to this Act have not been voted on by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. On this occasion, we therefore find it valuable and necessary to stress that we need to understand state property as the development potential of our and future generations, not as the electoral prey of every single winner in the elections. Therefore, in the basic version of the Slovenian State Holding Act and also in the attempts to correct it, we do not like the idea that the management of the Slovenian State Holding, and thus the vital part of the State's assets, would be subordinated to the political delegation system. The policy must be withdrawn from the management of state-owned companies and this management is subject to appropriate professional criteria in accordance with the strictest criteria set out in the guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. At the same time, we wanted the management of the Slovenian State Holding to be adequately involved by employees, employees of holding companies and subsidiaries in order to realize the idea we have in terms of economic democracy and the participation of workers in the management of companies. Economic companies as such, and especially companies owned by the State, because the State must set an example of following this example by other companies in the country. This is also what the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia requires of us and the interpretation of the Constitution given in its decision by the Constitutional Court. We support the intention that this state property is subject to the supervision of the Court of Auditors. We stress, however, that we do not want solutions that would only allow for strict control of the ways of public money and public property on paper. The National Assembly is responsible for adopting legislative solutions in such a way as to make them viable. Today, we know that in the case of public cash registers, the Court of Auditors is also monitoring the budgets of local communities, and we are wondering whether it has the professional and human resources capacity to also provide adequate control over the Slovenian State Holding and its subsidiaries and their operations. We support this intention in any case, but we do not want to accept solutions that would ultimately be lifeless and would not allow effective control. We also believe that the public administration body must be directly accountable to the national assembly. The government itself as a assembly is at issue with regard to the implementation of corporate governance guidelines for interfering with the daily business policy. If we look at what is also happening at a time when we no longer have a government with full powers and the staffing in the state economy continues, this is, of course, a special lesson, how we must not understand state property and what objectives, mainly the objectives of political parties, this property must not be subordinated. We see it as a substance that can form the basis for the long-term development of this country into the social market economy of regulated rules and countries, which will also receive a strong fiscal impulse in the form of dividends from profits generated by these companies. We expect the new government to deal with this issue soberly and to find solutions that the next government will not change again. It is about following one long-term concept, because only this concept ultimately leads to the desired results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you, too. I note that we have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Animals, the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Branko Ravnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members! Through the legislative process, after a thorough professional and public debate, we have exceeded the basic purpose of amending the law, this is the transposition of European legislation into our legal order. Despite the extent to which the existing legislation is being amended, we can say that together through proposals we have developed a new level of animal protection in several areas, notably in breeding, trials and slaughter, and, more importantly, strengthened the responsibility of animal owners. The proposed amendments and amendments to the laws are based on the principles of responsible ownership and humane treatment of animals, and I therefore propose to Members and Members that you adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ravnik. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the word "magic" first. Jani Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! Today is the third time we have before us to consider the proposal for a novel of the Animal Protection Act. In the DeSUS Group, we assess that the proposal brings important innovations in the field of animal protection. This means, above all, the ban on circuses in which wildlife is used to perform or display. We also welcome the provisions introduced by novelties in animal testing, namely the introduction of the principle of the replacement of experimental animals with other methods, with as few experimental animals as possible, the improvement of the conditions for the rearing and care of experimental animals and the implementation of experiments. While it would be ideal for animal trials to be totally prohibited, for once obviously we are not mature enough to make such a decision. We are also not mature enough to prohibit the execution of animals in shelters after 30 days of stay or to extend the minimum time of stay. As we have said several times in the DeSUS Group, we also welcome the provisions prohibiting slaughter of animals without prior stunning. It is regrettable to hear that it is precisely because of these provisions that the amendment of the law will immediately after its adoption that the Constitutional Court is to be judged for allegedly violating religious rights. We hope that in this case, the Constitutional Judges will decide for the welfare of the animals and maintain that prohibition also in cases of religious rituals. In the DeSUS Group, we also welcome the improvement in the data coverage for the management of the Central Registry of Dogs. Data on the origin of the dog will be required to prevent illegal trafficking in animals. The Novela confers with the municipal authorities the competence to treat the physical protection of animals, namely dogs on leashes in public places and in cases of conduct of criminal proceedings, as well as checking the labelling or microchiping of dogs. If I can sum it up. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for a new law on animal protection contributes significantly to improving animal protection in the Republic of Slovenia and raising society's culture to a higher, more humane level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Vasle will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u32	Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government! This law has been established for a long time and has been aligned with both the professional and the layman’s public. In the second reading debate, we have therefore heard much praise at the expense of this law, which was passed without a vote against. We also support changes in the law within our parliamentary group because we are convinced that the profession has prepared it well and that the implementation of this law will contribute to a higher level of animal protection in our country. Nevertheless, we are confident that a good law as well as strict enforcement control will not be able to prevent the ill-treatment of animals or even the torture of animals. We call upon all owners of animals, both domestic and other animals, to remember that the animal is primarily their care and responsibility. It is wrong to assume that when we no longer need them, we are concerned about the state or the congregation. The animal is in good and bad sole responsibility of the owner. Therefore, the transfer of this responsibility to others: to inspectors, to municipal officials, to the municipal state budget is only an emergency exit. Non-governmental organisations working in the field of animal protection have also actively participated in this stage of the adoption of the law and have been heard by Members. Thus, an amendment on the prohibition of breeding and hunting of animals for fur, leather and feathers has been adopted, which has raised many questions in furskins. The government proposal did not provide for that prohibition, as there is harmonised legislation regarding the breeding and protection of fur animals at the time of execution. The activity is regulated and has so far not been banned. That is why we understand the fear and warnings of those affected. Or perhaps this ban, for good reason, was premature. In addition to the prohibition of breeding and hunting furskins, changes to the law do not prohibit killing animals for the purpose of obtaining fur and leather. In our parliamentary group, we understand the prohibition of animal breeding solely for the production of leather, fur and feathers. However, breeding of animals whose meat is used for human consumption, skin, fur or feathers are by-products and are allowed to be used. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Mrs Tamara Vonta will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act is one of those procedures in the National Assembly, which can be cited in many ways as an example of constructive cooperation between a skilled and well-informed civil society and parliaments. That is why, of course, it also brings a lot of good solutions, although some compromises had to be made on some points, and this is also the essence of our work. The debate on the amendments to that law revolved mainly around a few hot spots, which were finally adopted. This certainly includes the proposal to ban circuses from performing wild animals. In addition, in Positive Slovenia we insisted that the term "Circus" should also be added to the phrase "and similar events", since the abuse of the provisions is thus impossible. In Positive Slovenia we especially welcome the ban on ritual cloning without prior stunning. We persisted in the planned solution despite the pressures of some religious communities. We advocate a ban on breeding animals for fur, even though some adjustments have been made in the amendment. Essentially, this purpose of the ban has not changed. In particular, it should be pointed out that there is no reason why Slovenia should not introduce such prohibitions. For example, animal breeding is prohibited in Austria, Croatia, Germany, the Netherlands, Great Britain and Serbia alone, and the adoption of such an amendment would definitively eliminate the possibility of such farming in Slovenia, not only for domestic breeders, but also for foreigners who would like to engage in this activity in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We often refer to the European Directive. There is also a directive on the protection of breeding animals which provides that Member States can apply stricter rules in their countries. By the way, Slovenia banned commercial imports of seal skins by means of a regulation on the handling and protection of trade in animal and plant species in 2008 and this regulation restricts imports of furs of certain animals due to the care of handling them. This is evidence of the position already taken by Slovenia in this case in the international community. Finally, what seems particularly important to me is that the Slovenian public favors such a solution. Of course, it is important to be aware that this is a first step, that is to say, the adoption of a law. We are essentially solving a lot of problems with legislation, perhaps even more than it would have been necessary. There are many laws, and another problem is, of course, the implementation of these laws or the supervision of the implementation of these laws. I hope that things will improve in this area as well. As data comes from the field, things are still a little bit worrisome sometimes. In addition, I think it is extremely important that we devote more attention and time to prevention or education from young people's legs to co-existing and responsible for animals, because I believe that with such education and with such prevention, there will be no longer any need for different laws that impose severe sanctions and so on. Basically, when we look at all the areas, in essence, sanctions as such, penalties are withdrawn from some other forms, which I am more inclined to do myself. I hope that this law is one of the first steps in this area. To deal with this, it does not really require an unknowingly large amount of financial resources, but, above all, much good will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! The animals we coexist with are sensitive beings, with a set of specific needs that we must respect and respect if we are to enable them to live a decent life without suffering. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are constantly working to prevent irresponsible animal relations in the long term. The law that we are considering in our last reading today lays down the responsibility of people to protect animals, namely, to protect their lives, health and well-being. It shall determine what is considered to be animal torture and which animal treatment or intervention is prohibited and lays down the conditions to be provided for the protection of animals in the rearing, transport and testing of animals. The main reason for the amendment of the law is to comply with the European Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. Since the last amendment of the law has changed a number of things, it was reasonable that we have also intervened in other areas, with a view to improving the current provisions on animal protection. In the field of animal testing, the system shall be upgraded or substantially sharpened, since for each action carried out on animals or on animal tissues a prior consent of the special ethical commission and of the decision of the veterinary authority shall be obtained. If we compare the proposal for a basic law received by the Ministry with today's text, we find in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it has also been improved by some of the amendments adopted. In Slovenia, in the area of animal protection, a strong civil society and all activists actively involved in the discussions are to be thanked for constructive dialogue and assistance in adopting these very important improvements to the Animal Protection Act. Nor is it possible to overlook a profession that alerts to the great problem of the great feline population. In this area, it will be necessary to set a deadline in the near future for the start of the implementation of cat identification and the management of the Central Register of Cat Owners. After all, we are partially following these appeals in marriage, but that probably won't be enough. The proposal of the Veterinary Chamber concerning outpatients in shelters will also have to be carefully considered, as there are indeed many complaints by civil society regarding the work of veterinarians in these clinics. Despite all the good things that we have changed within the law, for example, we have banned circuses in which wild animals occur, and many more, we are still concerned in the Group of Members with a few matters that we have put in place in spite of opposition from certain groups. Here I would point out to the Muslim and Jewish communities, which have pointed out that the amendment of the law prohibits slaughter without stunning and does not allow exceptions, which means an excessive measure preventing them from exercising religious freedom. Similarly, the prohibition of breeding animals for fur and leather, as adopted by the second reading amendment, applies. The adoption of this amendment means the cessation of this activity and will destroy a small yet existing trade in Slovenia. I am afraid that because of some decisions on the committee at the end of the above-mentioned groups of people, the law will be given constitutional opinions and I do not know how we will feel when an article of the law is challenged. I believe that in these two areas we have been too hasty and have tried to act particularly like the majority public. The law is good. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that in the future more activities will need to be focused on preventing animal protection and seeking solutions that will help reduce the number of abandoned animals and identify them. It will be necessary to strengthen the education and education of citizens on the appropriate treatment of animals and to promote responsible ownership. We must commend a number of animal protection companies, which greatly help to raise awareness. I personally like it very much that every Saturday at one of the radio stations I hear Mrs Eva Leo Müller reminding me of the protection and welfare of animals. The law will be adopted today, and we also announce support in our parliamentary group despite the concerns I have mentioned earlier. We believe that there are many good solutions in the law that go to the welfare of animals, but I fear that in the end there will be a constitutional judgment that will definitively shape the text of the law. We have a marriage, but only with consistent implementation will something be done for the welfare of animals in our country. This appeal goes primarily to the control institutions responsible for this and, in particular, to the owners of the animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you, too. Mag. Dejan Židan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u38	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment! The Social Democrats support the law. We think the law is good, but it's not ideal. The view of animal protection is changing. Now, as we observe the success of our skier, we also remember how we all rejoiced together 10, 20 years ago when we watched the Golden Fox competition. Today there is no longer competition for the Golden Fox and also people who would wear a dead fox, which with dots hanging down, and the head of a binja on the other side, these people almost no longer in Slovenia. The attitude towards animal protection is changing. This marriage should be commended for a few things. First of all, it's a way of adopting this law. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment has prepared an upgrade to the existing law, since this is not the first step we have taken in Slovenia, this is one of the steps. It has produced a proper, good version of the law's upgrade, even with some innovative solutions. In the debate itself in the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment and in the debates for civil society in Slovenia, we were able to agree on some things that we did not hope would be adopted in the original text. There has been some kind of consensus between civil society, the government and parliamentary parties. It must be said that this law brings important news in some areas. What's important to us is to sharpen animal experiments. Animal trials are unnecessary in most cases, repeatable, followed by inertia. They cause pain, torture of the living, and the effects are known, and it is good that we have made legislation more acute in this area. It is important that we have given the opportunity to extend the number of registers for animals to the Ministry in accordance with the professional needs and needs of practice. We have not prescribed new registers with this law, but we have given the competent authority the opportunity to extend this area. Together with non-governmental people, we took a step forward in banning breeding exclusively for the purpose of getting furs. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the fear of people who are involved in leather processing or selling leather or leather products is completely unnecessary. This law is without prejudice to their activities. This law does not endanger their jobs. It is true, however, that the law introduces a prohibition of breeding solely for furskins in the way that there is a transitional period. I stress this because all those who line rabbits — rabbits line up for meat and fur — are not threatened by this law. This is a sufficiently long transitional period, and this is a transitional period which affects one breed according to officially available data. According to official records, we only have one breed. It allows the Ministry to enable the restructuring of this breed by means of measures at its disposal. Thus, we also have two such breeds, or according to other information, that the country has not let go. Ladies and gentlemen! We support this law, but we are aware that the areas that are not yet regulated in Slovenia at this time are not subject to any forced euthanasia, and this law is not yet regulated. The talks in the coming weeks and months, and I hope that also in the field of "forced euthanasia" of animals that no longer have owners, we will also resolve this area by not endangering animals, and also by not burdening the state budget. Individual experience from the European Union shows that this can be arranged this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you, too. Mr Richard Braniselj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you, President. Greetings to the Ministry! The Animal Protection Act has been in force since 1 January 2005, and at that time has been an important acquisition for the legal regulation of this area in the Republic of Slovenia. We are currently amending this law in order to remedy the shortcomings that have emerged during its implementation, as well as to implement the European Union directives. The novela brings a number of improvements with regard to the restriction of animal experiments, the register of dogs, breeding, the traffic of breed animals, it also introduces the procedure for the execution of offensive or uncontrollable dogs and could also indicate that I will not be too long. Fortunately, the law did not prohibit the free sale of lemons for harmful rodents. By banning this, we would be forced to enter our homes into a professional exorcism service that would charge us well for such professional catch of these responsible pests. Whether changes to the law are good will show its implementation in practice, whether they are really in the interests of animals, their owners and their public interest, and this will show time. However, we have doubts as to whether the solutions to the new law are balanced with the time we live on, or with the economic crisis, with the availability of public finances and, last but not least, with the welfare of our citizens and citizens. We also have doubts as to whether some of the restrictions imposed by the law really do belong to the current and current situation. We have concerns that certain restrictions and prohibitions restrict entrepreneurship at the wrong time. If so, the law that we confirm today will have to be balanced as soon as possible. Despite these concerns, we will support the amendment of the law in the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Roman Zveglic will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Have a nice hello to you all. Good day again. For the last time, we have before us a new law on animal protection, which has already been filled in over a few months, as well as a number of e-mails. I was self-inflicted about the raw material in relation to the debate in the National Assembly, but what we want. The novelty shall, to the greatest extent, harmonise Slovenian legislation with the legal order of the European Union concerning the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. It therefore lays down more restrictive measures in laboratory animal trials. The Ethical Commission for Animal Trials, which decides to carry out animal experiments, will have to make an assessment after the amendment for all trials, not only for the most difficult ones, as is now the case, thereby increasing on the one hand the financial and administrative burden on test applicants and, on the other hand, following the principle of the lowest possible use of animals. In addition, the proposed law also improves the registration and labelling system of dogs and also changes the provisions on the execution of dangerous dogs to ensure greater human safety. In the opinion of the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party, a solution is envisaged that introduces the execution of an uncontrollable or obsessive dog, which has not yet caused bodily harm, is correct, as the actual attack of such a dog on a human being, God forbids the child, ends tragically. I guess I don't have to mention concrete and deplorable cases that have ended tragically in this place. In the area of control over the performance of dog owners, the proposed law enhances the competence of municipal editors, as the latter may, at the time of the founding offence, in the event that this happens on the public surface, check whether the dog is marked with a microchip and also take appropriate action. In the first reading, I drew attention to our restraint towards the general municipal tax for carrying out the tasks relating to the care of abandoned animals, which was withdrawn during the procedure. A key role was played by the Court of Auditors, which, inter alia, assessed that the costs of collecting such a fee would be higher than the financial proceeds of the fees collected. Of course, the problem of providing care for abandoned animals, especially the financing of such animals, remains and the burden of the congregations is of course great. The law also provides for a ban on ritual slaughter of animals, which is a stricter regulation than European legislation foresees, and we have joined Sweden, which now has the only such regime. With regard to the amendments adopted in the second reading at the meeting of the parent working body concerning the prohibition of the rearing and hunting of animals for the purposes of their skins and the prohibition of the performance of wild animals in circuses and similar events, we are detained in our parliamentary group. But what it is is. It is no longer possible to change the content as the articles are closed. The fact is that these prohibitions will also cause economic damage. Even a job will be lost, at a time when all jobs should be god damn protected and fought for. The law in this area also interferes with the rights acquired. Parliamentary majority obviously do not care about this in these difficult times, even though it should. Let me get this straight. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the Animal Protection Act is largely suitable for adoption, but I predict that our vote will not be uniform, as we believe that the procedure for amending certain articles of the novel should be initiated as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you, too. I note that we have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. First, I give the floor to Mr Janez Vaslet to prepare himself for Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u44	Say good-bye to everyone again! With regard to this law, I am pleased that we are very united in this, and we are pleased that there is some order in the field of animal protection. Let's just say I'm glad that the dog has to be properly marked by the third month of his life. Then I am very pleased in person with this chapter, which discusses whether the dog owner is under the age of 18 to be aware of his legal guardian in the register. He fell into my eyes again also in Article 8, paragraph 8, which speaks of the sexual abuse of animals. As I mentioned on the committee, this is the problem of humanity, I don't know if from prehistoric times, but from Moses ’ time, because it is written there literally that the one who experiences with animals should be put to rest. An important chapter has already been mentioned several times: tightening the rules on the regulation of the field of animal experiments. Here I noticed some inconsistency in this animal-breeding ban solely for the needs of furs. Article 26 states in paragraph 12 that the execution is carried out for the purpose of obtaining skin or fur. These are the kind of things you're gonna have to fix. We also received a relatively late voice from the breeders of these furskins and furskins, in fact, we had some information that in Slovenia there is only one breed of these animals, which are grown for furry purposes or for furskins, because of industry. And this data shows that a few hundred people who are somehow dependent on it have come up with some letters, but I hope that this can also be settled in further discussions or with a constitutional opinion. Here I would also turn to this area, which regulates the situation with travelling animals. Special mention was made in these discussions of a large number of trails, travelling cats, especially cats. And it was also thought that chipping, some castration, sterilization and so on would be used. I think special chipping, if there's no owner, probably doesn't make any sense. But it will be very difficult to sterilize and castration, so I think it would be worth thinking about, I don't know if that's possible, but that some contraception would be introduced from the air, such as the vaccination of rabies cuffs, such a possibility. Here I also have to touch the ritual slaughter of animals, which, as I have heard today in the presentation of positions, will receive constitutional judgement. I mean, we've repeatedly stressed that an animal that's been drugged is not dead. And also for these sanitary reasons, it is better that the animal does not feel this fear because it is happening, but it has been shown that in this metabolism animals, which are in mortal fear, release some toxic substances that make meat, at least for a certain time, inedible, even toxic, I have read somewhere. It was also heard that natural fur would be replaced with artificial fur. But here again is the problem, probably the basis for artificial fur oil, which is not a renewable source of energy, but there would be a similar example, such as artificial spruce, which is much harder to remove from the environment than a naturally grown spruce for these purposes. I think that the law is good, we have worked very hard for it across the board, but of course nothing is completely perfect and will be improved in further discussions and discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u46	Hello, everybody! The Animal Protection Act is good because it is updated, it is in line with the EU Directive, and in particular it speaks of additional animal protection, and that is good. But I'm more worried about the performance. In particular, the supervision or proper organisation of inspection services, since we have poor experience in controlling shelters, especially in the veterinary service, as well as in municipal officials. The issue of financing the relevant services and responsibility is raised. The law gives the official veterinarians, agricultural, hunting, fishing inspectors, inspectors responsible for nature conservation, including the police, and so on. We have an army. But the question is a connecting factor. We also have poor experience in the recently adopted Food Safety Act. We have warned that appropriate inspection services need to be combined, says not only the veterinary, but also the health inspectorate, and this has proved justified in the affair, since it is not only the very strict control of domestic food producers but the free movement of goods coming from other countries of the European Union must be monitored. I hope that the corresponding mistakes will be corrected by the new director of safe food. The Animal Protection Act is updated, it is good, it provides a good basis for animal protection, and practice and adapted control will produce results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar. However, Mr Matevž Frangež should prepare himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, colleagues and colleagues! In the third reading of this law, we can see that this law has been in preparation for more than a year, together with various professional associations and NGOs. I also assess it as a step towards more humane treatment of animals and also as a step towards more responsible ownership. I, too, have contributed a vote to the committee to vote on the amendment that now prohibits the breeding of animals solely for the purpose of obtaining fur. It was not heard by the breeders, nor at the stage of the treatment by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, in order to cause no economic damage. Of course, we need to pay attention to this or approach it with sensitivity. Nevertheless, I would like to say that, under the rural development programme, we have large resources for the modernisation of agricultural economies and that over the 2007-2013 programming period, more than EUR 100 million has been issued or issued for measure 121 and that the state of Slovenia has committed to the agricultural economy over EUR 100 million for this purpose. I am convinced that this economy, which now has to close its doors for a transitional period of two years, will also be able to re-engineer this restructuring farm, and as I am aware of it in the new programming period for this purpose even more resources than in the 2007-2013 programming period. So I think, where there is will, there is also a way and that we will also save this farm or economy or farm from collapse. And here I call on agricultural advisers, all those who are paid with public money to help this economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you, too. The next panellist is Mr Matevž Frangež. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to give recognition to all involved, led by civil society, which has worked closely in this law and has given a number of advanced ideas on how to better protect animals in our society, ensure them a more comfortable stay and co-exist with man. Finally, this recognition is also to all politicians. I think that both the ministry and the coalition and the opposition have worked closely together in this law. In doing so, let me put particular emphasis on the remarkable effort made by our fellow Member, Dejan Židan, in this law. I think that this law is slowing down, but we are confidently approaching countries that, in an exemplary manner, regulate the area of animals, their protection and protection, and, last but not least, in extreme cases of human protection against them. One of these terms is that Slovenia will join a group of those countries that reject the circus in cases where wildlife is involved. Animals like humans prefer their freedom, and this must be respected. Also in a number of other issues, the law has led to solutions that allow for better care for animals in the future, to strengthen the ownership of their well-being and to make full progress as a society on this issue. This question is certainly one of the expressions of our humanity. That is why I will support the marriage, with the recognition of all those who have worked closely with him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you. The next debater is mag. Ivan Vogrin, who is not in the hall right now. That is why I call for the next word, namely Mr Dragan Bosic. Get ready, Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. That's a nice greeting from me! To begin with, I would say that animals are really wonderful creatures because they have managed something that rarely succeeds: at least to some extent to unite Slovenian politics. It's not a small thing or a long way from being small. As far as marriage is concerned, it's good because of what the predecessors said, including mag. The real Jew, with regard to regulating the trier principle of working with laboratory animals. However, one concern here would only be raised in relation to this law. Here's the thing. The law, clearly, refers to animals and these are defined as all vertebrates, except humans, that means that wild animals are included, and determines the responsibility of humans to protect them. Here is a phrase that is disturbing or that needs to be alerted and watched for the future. This one says: "This law also regulates the treatment of fish, game and hunting dogs, if not by regulations governing fishing, game and hunting, otherwise arranged." Why am I saying this? There is an initiative of the Hunting Union and the ERIC of Velenje, an initiative to list certain bird species. Very interestingly, in the midst of this, there is also a rascal protected by Europe, not to mention others, including foxes, sloaks, big beaks. Why am I saying this? I see this as one trap, bypass, as one possibility that certain animals with certain regulations or directives will literally be moved into one segment from the untouchable to the touchable. The arguments cited above, I think that at the end of March the debate will be on this subject, but just as a warning I am speaking, the arguments cited by, say, the Director of the Hunting Union Professional Service, the jars that are market-oriented, which are important for, I don't know, Italian hunters who are very fond of shooting these birds, I do not doubt that. However, it is the birds that are now protected by law. I'd like to keep them protected. It says on the official website of the Hunting Association that these birds don't nest with us. This one says they nest sporadicly too. One thing I would have warned you about, the dead don't nest anywhere. That means that if we don't protect them or think about this bypass, it won't be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Mr Bevk has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Let me put it this way, as I said in the second reading, that I support the Animal Protection Act. I am also pleased to say that when this law was adopted, a resolution on normative activities was taken into account, as civil society has been involved all the time in the consideration and adoption of this law, and this is an active one. Many proposals from civil society have been taken into account. Let me also remind you that the second treatment of peds for poor months was accompanied by an exhibition about animals in the lobby of our hall, which was very informative. However, I would have one question, despite the promise of support, which is unanimous, to this law, for the representatives of the Government. The European Commission's website, where European citizens' initiatives are presented, also contains a proposal for a legal framework for the gradual elimination of animal trials. Let me say that this law that we are about to adopt today is already sharpening animal trials. However, there is a civil initiative in the European Union to phase out these attempts. I want to know how our government feels about this issue. What are the thinking within the European Commission? As a matter of fact, I support the Animal Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you, too. I note that Mr Zvonko Lah is the next debater to prepare Mr Roman Žveglic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I too am joining all those who support this law. I think the law is pretty good that we've taken this law a step further, but we still don't solve all the problems. It also seems questionable to me, as we also discussed on the committee responsible, the prohibition on the rearing of animals solely for skin, fur and feathers, because it seems to me that it does not matter what is being done. More importantly, what are the conditions of this animal at the time of breeding? We should probably also take a closer look at the conditions of those animals, which we also raise for food, for meat, under what conditions they live in. Here too, the profession has had doubts about this prohibition because Europe does not have it in most countries. But I would focus on the overpopulation of cats in certain areas. Of course, there are various problems in rural and urban areas. In cities, there is a problem of overpopulation of wild cats, which is under control, or municipalities have signed contracts with owners of animal shelters, but these shelters also represent very high costs for municipalities, which we also discussed. Cats in cities, near kindergartens, are a great threat to the transmission of certain diseases. There are also large amounts of waste in the sandstones in kindergartens and complaints are made by principals and employees in kindergartens. Of course, after the congregation has to storm through the shelters, it becomes a great expense for the congregation. I believe that the state and the municipalities should agree on some procedures where they would prevent and accelerate castration and sterilisation of cats, so that the population would somehow regulate itself. In the countryside, however, there is a great problem when certain cat owners are so multiplied that neighbors and the surrounding area are disturbed, and the congregation has to storm and this is therefore a huge cost. I think that it is also necessary to take a step forward in this direction, to increase the responsibility of cat owners, where there are known owners, and to make a strategy for how to act, but not just burden the municipalities. There was also a proposal for a municipal tax in the municipalities, probably meant more in the municipalities to pay these costs, but in the end, the view prevailed that we could not, although there was a proposal for municipalities to introduce this, I think this was inappropriate, and it is right that this has not been introduced, but the problem remains and needs to be resolved in the future. I think that the congregations have too little involved in the amendment of this law, perhaps even by the municipalities there is some kind of in place or good proposal to supplement this law in order to be even better than it is. Once again, I am glad that this law brings a lot of good regulation or some improvements and needs to be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Roman Zweglich. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I'm risking a little controversy, a little debate. Of course, certain solutions, which have been incorporated into the law and added to the parliamentary procedure itself, are of course nothing at all. First of all, I am not comfortable with this story about the prohibition of breeding exclusively for furskins with an extremely short transitional period and because we are interfering with a certain acquired right. And we won't even let him know that he can't do this anymore if he doesn't. To dream that this will be able to be restructured, I think that this is speaking from the Parliamentary Chamber, because mostly there are no problems on the ground. This breeder and all these breeders are usually small farms that can't possibly get to run on any kind of invitation to tender. If it were in the law that this breed could remain and no new breeds were allowed, I would understand that too. Of course I don't understand that. Therefore, and for this very reason alone, I will not uphold the law and oppose it. This is also because I think we too much want to regulate and prescribe what someone should do. Although I expected that my marriage would also say that my cats who live freely on the farm should no longer be allowed to hunt mice. The debate on the committee has gone so far. In the spring, when the work begins in the fields, thank God that farmers are now being carried by a little different horses and not by those on the four legs. I don't know if we should be doing this anymore. What kind of criminals would be in this debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you, too. The next debate is Mrs. Tamara Vonta.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. It seems to me that at the previous statements it is not worth saying anything, because we have already said many times that it is two farms and both farms are lovers' farms and talking about job losses and great economic damage, it is very nice to speak for those who are somehow your opinion, but it is not the truth and I see the problem in this. It's very popular to say that. Of course you're going to gather around a lot of people, but it really isn't. With all due respect, I know you get to know your pets more than I do, but this is the official information we got. I would like to draw attention to some of the things that I think are, in fact, more proposals that have been given to me and that do not have a direct connection with this law, but it might also make sense to think about having children in primary schools or in secondary schools, such as those who would like to, perhaps, part of their obligations or within circles or from some selection content already existing in programmes, so that they may also have a chance to spend one part of those hours in shelters, so that this choice is possible where they can help with their work. It seems to me that it would be quite instructive for children as well as for parents. In fact, what matters most to me, I am sure, with no law, and especially with one that is insanely strict and punished, we cannot achieve it. And that is to strengthen the bond between animal words and responsibility. The animal is not an animal on its own, we are not the owners of the animal because when we come home with tails, we are happy, but it also brings responsibility, a certain amount of work and so on. And it seems to me that it would be very encouraging in children, especially in those who may not have the opportunity at home to live with a domestic animal, and there is something like this that might be possible to choose something within a school system as part of the selection content. But that's just a pretty reasonable suggestion. But how does it work, and then there's another thing that can come up with problems. I haven't even thought about it right now, but I think it's a good idea. I agree that it doesn't matter why we're sorting the animal, and that it really matters what conditions we're sorting it out. Yeah, but it's also important to know that an animal that's being sorted for fur and died just to get fur, that this animal has a particularly scary, beautiful death that I don't want to talk about right now, because I think you'd all feel a little sick. But all those who know that word a little bit better, you probably know how it is with those diodes, one in the ton, and one in the mouth let the electricity go, the fur is even, and the like. As for these and the conditions in which animals are essentially intended exclusively for fur treatment and the deaths they receive, you really do not want to know all the details, really not. And that's why I think it's the only right way, especially because there won't be much damage. There will be no great harm, and this we have received confirmation from all ends, so all is one pure populism. I'm sure something will have to be done with the inspection services as well. Let me just say that we've just witnessed a case recently where it was literally that the inspector invented it, that she was in the sightseeing position, and she wasn't there at all. But the society of animals that die before our eyes must not take this animal away because it will be punished. That's absurd. An animal without food, an animal dying, you can't take it, and the inspector says it was in sight, and everything is fine. She wasn't even on the tour. All right, so these are just individual cases, but we often feel totally powerless in such cases, and we're essentially wondering why we have laws. I know the inspectors have a very wide field of work and very few. But if we're not going to do this, then all the rhompom was here and all the nice words were in vain. And I know that there will be a number of words that have been addressed to animals in this National Assembly, when we are living in a crisis and people are in crisis. That's all true. But that's why we can't forget everything else that goes with it. All things must be saved, for this is part of us, the world in which we live. I'd really like to call because I've got a bunch of company reports on these problems that I'm talking about. Especially in the end where I come from. I am aware of the hardships, I am aware of the financial problems and so on – but then it is pointless to have such a law. It is simply to be exercised or granted some status, or whatever, to have any influence on society. It's not like society's gonna get punished. At times, people still do not realize that ownership of an animal does not mean ownership of its life. But to be concerned and responsible, animals are also nice to live together, so not everyone is just when we feel good. I'm still in favour, and some say it's actually impossible, but I still think that at one point it will probably be necessary to introduce the cat register and chipping. And, of course, in cities, cats are still a much bigger problem than in rural areas. These cats are also, not only do they leave poop and I don't know what else was said, in the sandstones. Sandstones must be covered anyway. These cats are also quite persecuted and tortured. That seems like a problem to me, too. That's why we have congregations, so we have money that is supposed to be used at least for cats to be castrated, for cats to be sterilized, for this population to not spread and not spread, because it's simple, and that's pure truth already uncontrollable. Of course, cats also do one positive job in cities. That's what you have to say. They can still hunt mice, and they'll always be able to hunt them. That's ridiculous, saying we can't let cats hunt mice, that's ridiculous. Come on, we're in some serious house. And the same applies to rats and the like. This is part of our world and we will have to accept it, and if we don't quite like it or how to say it, because we don't like it here in here, but we have to decide somehow how we're going to do it, how we're going to save them. Indeed, it seems to me that the basic condition of the education of young people, from childhood on, is the same as that of transport, is the same for all. This seems much better than criminal policy or punishment. Much better. This, I think, is one model that we will have to get very close to in all areas. However, it requires a great deal of engagement and joint work from different sectors of the country. I also stand for what we have already said on the committee, for banning firecrackers, a total ban on firecrackers, because it represents not only gray hair to all of us, but also animals and I don't know exactly why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you, too. Mr Roman Žveglič applied to the replica, if I have just registered. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. The honourable Member said that what I was saying was not worth saying. I will say so, even if this breed is small and brings some added value, not just words needing words, it would require support, not speculation. That's it. This seems to me as if one of us were banned from being an MP here or banned from working for a fifth time in health or higher education institutions. So let's take a look at these things. But as for the ban on firecrackers, here, if I'm still a Member, and if it comes into the procedure, here is my support, including fireworks, even though it's still such a glorious event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you, too. I'm asking if anyone might have a desire to discuss it or a word. The government? Yes, Mr. Branko Ravnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Four questions were raised, to which I think further clarifications should be answered or given. The first was about the breeding of animals for furskins. It is true, as was said in the debate, that the Ministry, when preparing the law, took the view that European legislation adequately regulates the protection of animals for furry purposes. We, at the next meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and the Environment, have been confronted with the arguments that have been put forward and, after the discussion has been concluded, have supported the solution, as is now enshrined in the proposal for a law, because arguments and views have convinced us in the debate. From an economic point of view, however, it should be reiterated that each animal rearing must be registered in Slovenia and also under constant veterinary supervision. In our records, one breed of 100 animals has been recorded for the purpose of breeding animals. The provisions will have no effect on rabbit breeding, and these breeds are primarily intended for human consumption. This law will not affect the textile, clothing and leather processing industry. However, the Ministry will closely monitor the situation in this economic area, and if there are signals that this law has negative economic effects, we will respond in line with our options and policies in this area. With regard to the second issue of fisheries regulation, I must say that this law is without prejudice to the conservation of protected, endangered and other species of animals, because this is governed by sectoral legislation, and environmental legislation, which is why procedures are being assessed in this way, it is said through other procedures. In this case, when it comes to hunting, the second sector law regulates these matters. With regard to the proposal to phase out animal trials mentioned and the question of what our relationship is, let me say that we are currently considering the amendment to the law resulting from the implementation of the European legislation adopted at the end of last year, we are implementing this. This is restrictive legislation, which is already extremely high standards in the breeding of experimental animals, and we use them only in cases where it is a matter of protecting human health and life. In cases of animal protection, the environment, and also the official authorities, are always given initiatives that are dealt with in a manner that is standardised for this purpose, are included in the procedure and will be followed by the Government in this part by changes at EU law level and will be transposed into its legal order. However, with regard to the initiatives that are within our competence, I have no doubt that we will not do the same as in the case of the current amendment of the law. There's only so much to do with the inspection work. The area of animal protection is very sensitive. It is important that supervision is carried out professionally and in accordance with legislation. We need to know that the needs of animals are largely different from that of humans. Many people may feel that when they see the cattle in the open winter, they are not properly provided. On the contrary, these animals feel great in such an environment, only the perception of individuals can be such that these animals may not be properly provided. If an animal has a choice, of course it chooses nature. In this part, it is extremely important that when it comes to the supervision of the relevant profession. And our profession is well prepared for this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I don't see a desire to discuss it. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. No amendments were tabled in the draft law for the third reading. The National Assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or at the latest at 17.40. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting, which will be resumed at 1:00 p.m. with consideration of item 17 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u66	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, a ministerial team with the Prime Minister of the Government at the head of the current business, and all present, welcome! We're continuing our adjourned session. We're moving to 17. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union between January 2013 and June 2014. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal for a declaration, I give the floor to Mr Ivan Janez Janša, President of the Government who is engaged in ongoing business.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u67	Honourable President, honourable Members and Members, dear colleagues and colleagues! It will take 9 years for Slovenia to become a member of the European Union. During 9 years of membership, Slovenia, among other things, became a member of the euro area at the beginning of 2007, at the end of 2007 and at the beginning of 2008 part of the wider Schengen area, and in the first half of 2008 it chaired the Council of Ministers and the European Council. These were times of optimism and growth in the European Union, times of great movement, breadth and also great plans. This period was a sign of trust in the so-called secure framework of Europe, the European Union, in which we sincerely believed in the new members in particular. It was not until later that this framework did not contain all the key safeguards and guarantees, but at some points it had a strong growth and well-being. There has been a major deficit in the political and economic union, where the framework has not been fully met. The economic crisis has shown this manna in a very painful way, and for some Member States more, for those better prepared to react faster, less. Slovenia has been affected by this crisis, has experienced it, and is still experiencing it in a very painful way. It is therefore all the more important that we become even more active both at national level and in the exercise of our interests. In the framework of the institutions of the European Union, only in this dual way can we effectively lift Slovenia from this critical state. The Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union during this year and the first half of the following year, which you have before you, is a kind of strategic document containing such a presentation of the state and priorities of Slovenia during the year and a half, during the Presidency of Ireland, Lithuania and in the first half of next year Greece. The European Commission's legislative and work programme for this year has been taken into account in the preparation of this declaration. This document foresees some developments as far as possible to anticipate and plan, but developments in the last four years in the European Union show that all of this is not always possible. This is how many things are going to happen, and so probably this year and next year there will be many things that are not national, nor European strategic documents have been covered, and in this sense not even the declarations that we have adopted in the Slovenian Parliament. Some crisis situations have accelerated the pace of resolving the situation in the European Union in many Member States as well. Remember the meeting on Greece, partly Spain, Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus in the last year. Here the response to events must have been extremely flexible, no matter what the declarations say, and I am afraid that this will be the same at the time that we are proposing this document. For this reason, I would like to point out at the outset that this declaration should be seen as a broader framework and that key decisions will be taken from the outside, given the situation and the initiatives to come. The material you have as a basis for today's debate is made up of two parts. The first part is a proposal for a declaration; this is a declaration policy document that highlights key priorities in the coming period, as we can imagine them, as well as those priorities of the European institution, given that we also respect their calendar. The second part of this document contains Slovenia's priorities for the work of the Council of the European Union for this year and the first half of the following year. These priorities are an accompanying document of declarations and represent framework views on key dossiers to be dealt with within the next 18 months or 16 months by the Council of the European Union. The declaration itself contains seven priorities. The first is the effort to get out of the crisis, the second is the active contribution to the debate on reform of the European Union, the third is the further strengthening of the economic and monetary union in the European Union, the fourth achievement of economic growth and the creation of new jobs, the functioning infrastructure and the functioning single market, the fifth effective use of resources and the provision of quality of residence, the sixth provision of an area of security and freedom justice and the seventh further regional integration and support for the enlargement process of the European Union. Of course, we could add a lot more to these seven priorities, but seven priorities are more than enough and we need clear guidance in these seven areas. With regard to the exit from the crisis, this priority comes first. Despite the calming of the financial markets in the second half of last year, economic forecasts for the entire euro area are increasingly promising. The European Commission's winter forecast for this year predicts a decline in the economic activity of the euro area; weak growth can only be expected next year. Even more pessimistic forecasts of the same institution are valid for our country. Efforts to get out of the crisis are thus at the heart of political debate at the highest level of European Union decision-making, i.e. the European Council. Most European councils were also dedicated to this topic last year. Thus, among other things, the Growth and Jobs Pact has been agreed at these meetings, guidance has been given to create a single supervisory mechanism over banks, as well as a mechanism for direct recapitalisation of banks, and a debate has been held on the further strengthening of the European monetary union. All discussions related to the exit from the crisis will continue at the next five regular meetings of the European Council this year. The topics I mentioned earlier, which were on the agenda last year, also need to be continued, most of these mechanisms are not fully developed. This process continues and ratifications are not completed at some point. The key red thread will undoubtedly be further measures to stabilise the situation mainly in banking and fiscal areas and measures to revive the economy. In the light of the preparations for the European Council next week, the European Semester should be highlighted, the European Council will provide political guidance to the European Union on national policies within the five priority areas of action, namely, firstly, the implementation of public financial consolidation, secondly, the restoration of normal lending to the economy, thirdly, the promotion of growth and competitiveness, fourthly, tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, and fifthly, the modernisation of public administration. These priority areas, which Member States are expected to take into account in the preparation of future reforms, are almost exactly the same as last year, as much work has just begun and no results have yet been achieved. Last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took action in all five priority areas identified by the European Union as a priority. First time. The 2012 budget balance and the budgets adopted for this year and next year lay the foundations for fiscal consolidation. A reduction of the budget deficit has been achieved and it is also possible to draw Slovenia from the surplus deficit mechanism in which it has been in place since 2009. It will contribute to consolidation and will also contribute to the adopted pension reform. Another time. By adopting the Bad Investment Management Company Act, we have laid the groundwork for stabilising the banking system primarily with the aim of reviving the lending activities of banks to start the economy. Third time. 40 % of investment incentives and 100 % of investment in R & D were already adopted at the beginning of the mandate and the corporate income tax is being gradually reduced to promote competitiveness. Furthermore, accepted and coordinated labour market reform with the social partners will contribute to competitiveness. This labour market reform is also a key element in reducing unemployment and combating social exclusion in the coming years. Since the fifth priority, a number of measures have been designed to modernise the public administration, including by reducing the number of ministries, eliminating more than half of the various working bodies, reducing administrative barriers within the three economic stimulus packages and removing obstacles to the successful investment of Structural Funds. The foundations are so laid, some of the effects of these measures are already on the palm, other effects will only reflect on growth over time, provided, of course, that they will all be fully implemented. In the event of their abolition, however, we are also risking a decline in economic growth in the coming years, as we have begun to distance ourselves from the target following the rapid approximation of the European Union's development average before the crisis in recent years. In 2008, Slovenia reached 91% of the European Union average and only 84% at the end of 2011. The fall of gross domestic product at that time was cumulative among the highest in the European Union – immediately for Greece. We were in the second place of that sad ladder. The worst scenario, however, is still to be avoided by the implementation of adopted reforms. The second priority reform of the EU and its institutions. A second part of this document or declaration is built around this. As part of the search for a way out of the crisis, the way in which the European Union and its institutions operate must also have changed. What has been presented as something unacceptable and unacceptable when we join the European Monetary Union or the euro area, namely, that this represents the construction of Europe at two speeds, has been established as an institution in recent years, I think of the practice of the Euro Summit sessions, when only the leaders of the Member States meet with the euro. Of course, in such a radical change in Europe's position, or the euro area was forced by crises in individual Member States and rather than by a scholastic dilemma, or the special meeting of the leaders of the euro countries does not pose a serious threat to the unity of the European Union, other threats to this scholastic dilemma have been completely overshadowed and when specific problems have to be resolved, no one has thought of such concerns. Of course, the Euro Area Summit is not an institution of the European Union which was envisaged in the Treaties, so it was necessary to regulate the way in which it works separately, only through an international agreement or pact on stability, coordination and operation in the European Monetary Union or a so-called fiscal pact. However, despite the fact that the foundations have been settled in the contract, the institution still has no rules of procedure, it is being improvised and the rules of procedure of these summits will not be reached until next week. This is just one example, which I underline in order to better illustrate this need to adapt the European Union to the changing situation, when measures are being taken that are realistic in relation to the demands of time and do not take account of what this represented in various political debates during the debate on the Lisbon Treaty or the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union. The economic crisis itself in Europe has further accelerated thinking about ways to bring Europe closer to its citizens. These reflections on how to restore greater legitimacy and credibility to the European Union, although very old, have often been at the forefront and are no longer at the forefront of the crisis, but are still present and important. This framework now includes, for example, a change in the election of the President of the European Commission. There will be a lot of reflection and talk about such and other ideas. Any decision requires a change of contract. For Slovenia, an active contribution to the debate on reform of the European Union and its institutions is a second priority of the declaration. Slovenia is preparing for discussion with a joint project of some state institutions. This project is called more Slovenia and is expected to start this month and end in June 2014. The aim of the project is to exchange and present proposals from different target audiences as a contribution to the preparation of Slovenia's views on the future of the European Union, including the role of citizens of the European Union and the change of EU institutions. The deepening of the economic and monetary union is a third priority. It's one of the most important changes. This has started to happen in the last year at the level of the European Union as a whole. This is a global or strategic response of the Union to the crisis and at the same time a measure by which the European Union is working or by which the European Union wants to be significantly more resilient to future similar crises. In this context, much has been agreed on over the last three years. The key arrangements went first in the direction of greater budgetary discipline. Here is Slovenia's homework. This excess deficit procedure has been renewed. As it is said, Slovenia has unfortunately been in this process since 2009. A fiscal pact was adopted under the obligation to incorporate a golden fiscal rule into the Constitution. A European Semester for the supervision of Member States' budgetary and other economic policies has been introduced. Of course, many of these still need to be implemented in national legislation in Slovenia, including the golden fiscal rule, because the deadline is running out. The European Council also adopted last year's timeline, the establishment of a banking union. A key element of this timeline is the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism over banks by the European Central Bank. In this context, the possibility of direct recapitalisation of banks by the European Stability Mechanism is also important, but details are not yet agreed here, which is why this mechanism is not yet in use and does not know exactly when to reach it in practice. The June European Council will discuss the timetable for the implementation of four longer-term measures to strengthen the European monetary union. It is the coordination of national reforms, the social dimension of the European Union, the contractual relations that will strengthen ownership of national structural reforms and, of course, the solidarity mechanisms to promote Member States' efforts to implement reforms. Since the beginning of its membership in the European Union, Slovenia has advocated further strengthening integration or union in various areas. Although progress has been very slow in some cases, steps have been taken elsewhere in recent years, some ten years ago not even theoretically representative. Here I would particularly stress the efforts to form a banking union, because without this step, without a banking union within the European Union, it is not possible to ensure the stability of the entire euro area and this euro area can once again be a hostage of the public financial crisis in any, even the smallest, Member State of the Eurosystem. This establishment of the Banking Union will break the link between public finances and the banking system, making the European Monetary Union resistant to such shocks, and will also ensure that taxpayers across the European Union are protected from the risks posed by this link. The fourth priorities are economic growth and jobs. There are no productive jobs without economic growth. The internal strengthening of the internal market of the European Union is also taking place too slowly. This market still represents a great potential for growth in the European economy. Slovenia shall endeavour to support as soon as possible the adoption of existing legislative initiatives, the Single Market Act 1 and the Single Market Act 2, which is the continuation of this package, which is now under way. The achievement of economic growth and the creation of new jobs is one of the key priorities. And the internal market, as has already been said, can contribute greatly to this. In addition to the relevant legislation and the creation of broader conditions, the European Union or its institutions can make a significant contribution to the recovery of economic activity through the European Union's own budget, particularly in smaller Member States such as Slovenia. For many Member States, investing in European funds in times of economic crisis is in fact crucial for investment activities and the promotion of the economy. Also for urgently needed public sector investments in individual countries. As you know, an agreement was reached at the beginning of last month on the European Union's budgetary or financial framework for the next seven years. For the first time in the history of the European Union, this seven-year financial framework has decreased by 3.5%. This is relative to the situation in which we are relatively few in the global European Union. Nevertheless, this has been a hindrance to our priorities, especially in our efforts to ensure as much cohesion as possible. This seven-year financial framework of the European Union has also addressed the problem of youth unemployment. In some countries of the European Union, this percentage is more than half, which is more than 50%. This is also a problem for Slovenia. The European Council has decided to devote €6 billion over the next seven years to eliminating youth unemployment in those regions of the European Union where this unemployment is more than 25%. Our Eastern cohesion region, unfortunately, is one of these regions, but it is also necessary to know that in Slovenia youth unemployment is a bigger problem than statistics show, because it is covered by the extension of studies or the fictitious entry that our education system allows. If that were not the case, statistics on youth unemployment would also be higher. As regards the general purchase from these negotiations for the future seven-year European financial framework, Slovenia can be pleased. We have been confident that Slovenia will be a net payer in the European budget at the time ahead of us over the past seven years in the framework of the current framework. At least the trend of our approximation to the European average was the same by 2009. Then this fall, which I was talking about earlier, followed, and we remained in those parameters that allow us to be in the middle, is said, when it comes to the Eastern cohesion region, still fully involved. For cohesion funds and also in its entirety, Slovenia has not only maintained the net financial position, but has even improved it.For the situation in which we are, of course, this is good news. However, the fact that Slovenia is still a net recipient of the European budget is that this is our downturn, given the European average, should not cheer anyone up. Our net financial position in the current financial perspective, which closes at the end of this year, is 0.87% of Slovenia's gross domestic product, and in the period 2014-2020 will be our net financial position plus 1.03% of GDP, says we are among those countries that have improved the net financial position. Partly due to successful negotiations, partly due to the fact that we have fallen closer to the average of the European Union. Of course, the net financial situation now allows almost 400 on average per year in Slovenia over the next seven years, almost 400 million euros more from the European budget than will be paid. It is said that this is a significant asset and I think it is in the common interest to invest as much as possible. There are still a lot of resources available this year from the current financial perspective. So far, we have received around 44% of all cohesion or all of the cohesion funds available from the European budget. Given the success of pumping we are now somewhere in the middle, at the beginning of last year we were much worse. Last year, more than EUR 500 million were allocated to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the second part of the year following the acceleration of this project from the European Union budget. Last year we achieved more than a 100 per cent increase in the European Union budget. In 2011, the average of 22 million per month was 46 million per month last year, but further measures in this direction will also be needed this year. Here I warn against the temptation that the funds intended for own participation in the financing of projects, which are largely covered by the European budget, are not earmarked with various rebalancies for something else, as this will mean that the funds still available and needed by Slovenia will remain unspent. If these few 100 million go instead of public sector wage investments to make some promises that can be made mentally in recent weeks, then we will pay a high price in a developmental sense. The fifth priority is the efficient use of resources and ensuring quality of stay. Safe food production is also within this priority. This topic has recently been extremely topical in Europe due to horse meat and some similar. Given that this is a single European market, joint actions by both Member States and European institutions are effective. The sixth area is the preservation of the area of justice, freedom and security. Here, from the point of view of the citizens among the more visible, there is no doubt, in particular, the expansion of the Schengen area to Bulgaria and Romania. Both countries have technically met all the conditions. However, there are substantive problems, but the admission of both countries to the Schengen area is expected this year. From the point of view of security and expansion of the Schengen area, the Western Balkans is an important region. This region has a fully guaranteed European perspective, and once again it is said to enter the Schengen area, which is likely to be one of the most difficult tasks of all criteria or of all areas where major progress is to be made. The next area is the enlargement of the European Union. This refers to Slovenia's location as a priority, both in the Western Balkans and in the eastern neighbourhood. As has already been said, the countries of the Western Balkans with the 2003 Thessaloniki Agenda are guaranteed membership in the European Union if they meet the conditions. This does not apply to the Mediterranean environment. From the point of view of the motivation of the countries in the Western Balkans, this guarantee is important, but should not represent motivation in the opposite sense, if, in any event, we are to come to the European Union, it is only necessary to wait. Here Slovenia must be among those who demand that these countries maintain the dynamics of reforms, progress and improvement of their business and environment. As far as Croatia is concerned, I think the last open issue that prevented Slovenia from ratifying Croatia's accession treaty has been resolved today. Today, at 10 a.m. and a few minutes, both governments simultaneously confirmed the memorandum by which the resolution of the transferred deposits of the former Ljubljanska Banka Zagreb is returned to the framework of the successor agreement or Annex C of the successor agreement. The memorandum itself is expected to be ratified in Slovenia next week after signing a government regulation Monday; Croatia has already done so because they have a slightly different procedure. This fact has also been widely welcomed within the European Union today. This is a compromise with which Slovenia has achieved its goal, namely, to return the resolution of this issue to a successor agreement or successor framework, and Croatia has achieved its goal of removing the last obstacle that has prevented the Slovenian National Assembly from ratifying the Croatian accession treaty. In addition, I would say that there are still a number of open issues within this succession agreement. This agreement is not implemented in many respects for a variety of reasons. This is not the subject of this declaration directly and indirectly. One of the reasons why Slovenia is further interested in extending the European Union to the Western Balkans region is that at least some of these issues, which remain unresolved now, will be easier to resolve under the successor agreement once some Western Balkan countries in the European Union or just before membership in the European Union. This 2001 agreement is therefore also important in the light of the enlargement of the European Union. As far as Croatia is concerned, according to our information, the procedure for ratifying Croatia's accession treaty to the European Union has been completed or at least started practically in all Member States of the European Union and there are very serious reasons to expect Croatia to actually become a full member of the European Union on 1 July 2013. With this, Slovenia will limit only to the members of the European Union, and there is likely to be a few years left of the Schengen border, where there will be no more customs due to the establishment of the single market as of 1 July. Dear Members and Members! This brief review of the key priority of the declaration presented only some of Slovenia's most important priorities in the institutions of the European Union, including the priorities of some European institutions during the current and two subsequent presidencies by mid-term next year. As I have said at the beginning, all that will happen during this time of the bad year and a half cannot be predicted, nor has it ever been so far, so either at the meetings of the National Assembly or at the meetings of the competent working bodies on novelties, you will have to discuss them, confirm them, adopt their views, and the Government will, in accordance with the established practice of cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, present these views to the National Assembly and the working bodies of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The proposal for a declaration was addressed as the committee responsible by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Roman Jakič, President of the Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! Before I begin with the official work of the report, I should be allowed, as President of the European Union Affairs Committee, to congratulate today's parish of the agreement between Slovenia and Croatia on the ratification of the Association Agreement. I would like to express my personal enthusiasm for this and congratulations go both to the President of the Government, Mr Janša, and to the Foreign Minister, Mr Erjavac, and to the Secretary of State, Mr Kaiser. Now let me tell you more about the proposal for a declaration that we have on the agenda. The European Union Affairs Committee considered as a competent committee the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period January 2013-June 2014 submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Government. Within a set time limit, the amendments to the proposal for a declaration were tabled by the Commission for National Communities and I personally as the Member of Positive Slovenia. A proposal from the amendment committee was also tabled at the Committee's meeting on the proposal for an initiative submitted by the MEP mag. Mojata Clevy Kekush. To the proposed amendments, the Government identified itself at and supported the 52nd meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs. The Committee has received reports from all the home work bodies and the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs in the State Council, which have examined and supported the proposal for a declaration from the point of view of their competence. The following issues were raised in the debate. First time. While the general orientations of the proposal are worthy of support, there are concerns about the implementation plans linked to them, since the question arises whether there is a set of all projects in the Republic of Slovenia and what the Republic of Slovenia is supposed to receive with them from the European Union funds. Another time. In the negotiations on the 2014-2020 Multiannual Financial Framework in the European Council, the Republic of Slovenia has proved to be an excellent candidate for cohesion funds. The question whether the Government is preparing a partnership agreement to negotiate with the European Commission with specific priorities, as EU funds will be crucial for the development of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming years. Finally, it was an initiative to supplement the proposal for a declaration in the work on taxation. The Committee adopted the following amendments to the proposal for a declaration. First time. In the introductory part of the declaration, we wrote that Slovenia will strive to respect human rights and freedoms, including the rights of members of indigenous national, ethnic and linguistic minorities. Another time. We added a new paragraph to the priorities of the Institutional Affairs chapter, which reads: "The National Assembly will, within the framework of the powers conferred on it by the acquis of the European Union and national law, carry out, where appropriate, procedures to monitor compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in the draft legislative acts of the institutions of the European Union and to participate in political dialogue with the European Commission. At the same time, with regard to the legal and in-depth economic and monetary union plan, he will strive to be adequately involved in the control and process of the establishment of this Union in terms of democratic and legitimacy and accountability." Third time. We added a new paragraph to the priorities of the Tax Sub-section, which reads: "Slovenia will make special efforts in the coming period to meet commitments and measures in the field of tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens." And the last. In the priorities of the Culture and Audiovisual Policy chapter, we have replaced paragraph 5 and have written down that Slovenia will continue to work towards the protection and promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity, the development of intercultural dialogue and the development of intercultural competences, including multilingualism, as well as the inclusion of cultural themes in other policies, particularly youth and foreign policy, science, audiovisual policy and education policy. After the debate at the vote, of course, we accepted all of this unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. In order to present the report of the Committee, I also give the floor to the President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At the outset, I will ask you for a moment or two to be extended on account of the time of the New Slovenia Group, because the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy is very important. However, allow me to express, first of all, on my own behalf and, of course, on behalf of all of us, the satisfaction that the initial text of the agreement, which was unanimously supported by the Committee on Foreign Policy, was initialled this morning by the agreement on how to resolve the issue of Ljubljana Bank Zagreb. I think it is fair for all the negotiators on the government side, led by the President of the Government, to then, of course, also by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Erjavac, as well as the Secretary of State, Mr Kaiser, to express my congratulations and recognition from this place. If I said yesterday that there are reasons for moderate optimism, today I am correcting it, and I say, there are reasons for optimism. And now to the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period January 2013-June 2014. At its 23rd meeting, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered, as a competent and parent working body in matters of European Union foreign and security policy, the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period January 2013-June 2014, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mag. Igor Senčar, who stressed that the proposal for a declaration is a strategic document setting out the framework for Slovenia's performance in the EU from January 2013 to June 2014. Under the Foreign Affairs and Defence Chapter, the Secretary of State has identified the development of the European Neighbourhood Policy as a priority, while Slovenia will continue to advocate that only a stable, democratic, secure and economically developed neighbourhood will ensure the security and well-being of the countries of the European Union. The proposal for a declaration in the process of establishing a neighbourhood underlines the importance of providing mechanisms and instruments to encourage the countries of the Eastern Partnership and the Southern Neighbourhood in the future to continue the reform processes and to enable the European Union to approach them. The proposal for a declaration also sets out that it is crucial for the countries of the southern neighbourhood of the European Union to be provided with support for democratic processes and the strengthening of partnership, while strengthening cooperation with civil society and key regional actors is important. The Republic of Slovenia shall also focus its priority on the area of scientific cooperation between countries and shall, in this context, seek to strengthen cooperation within the framework of the Union for the Mediterranean and the Euro-Mediterranean Universities – Emuni. The priority in the Middle East peace process is, according to the Secretary of State, aimed at a coordinated approach by the European Union to the recognition of the Palestinian State and the continuation of humanitarian projects to make life easier for the people there. In the field of the European Union as a global actor, the proposal for a declaration provides for the promotion of a strategic partnership with the United States of America, cooperation with Canada, the Russian Federation, with important strategic partners in Asia, in particular China, Japan and India, with Australia, with the Latin American and Caribbean countries, with Brazil and Mexico, and for the EU, an inter-regional agreement on free trade with the Asian countries is essential. The proposal for a declaration also defines the attitude of the Republic of Slovenia towards ensuring peace and security in sub-Saharan Africa and crisis areas in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The Republic of Slovenia will also be active in ensuring the stability and development of democratic processes in Syria, Mali, Iraq, Egypt, Libya, Tunisia and Algeria. As an important objective, the Secretary of State also cited the promotion of diplomatic resolution of the Iranian nuclear programme. In the area of security and defence, according to the State Secretary for the Republic of Slovenia, the implementation of civilian assistance and the provision of assistance in military education and the promotion of the development and improvement of civilian and military capacities is a priority. In doing so, he confirmed that cooperation will continue in CSDP operations and missions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Georgia, the Palestinian territories and in Atalanta operations in the waters of Somalia and in EUTM in Mali, with a further strengthening of the strategic partnership with international and regional organisations. In conclusion, the Secretary of State stressed that the priority region remains the Western Balkans, where the process of stabilising the region in a security-political and economic sense needs to be continued and encouraged. Therefore, the Republic of Slovenia remains an advocate of the enlargement process for countries that follow the rule of law, respect international agreements, participate in the process of harmonisation in the field of economic policies and foster good neighbourly relations and contribute to good regional cooperation. However, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Peter’s position added that the Ministry participated in the preparation of the material in the Sub-chapter Security and Defence, in the Section Foreign Affairs and Defence, and in the Chapter Justice and Home Affairs in the work relating to civil protection. He stressed that the Republic of Slovenia will continue its efforts to develop a common security and defence policy within the meaning of operations, institutions and capacities and to participate in the operations and missions of the security and defence policy of the European Union. Regarding the area of civil protection, however, he said that activities in the first phase would focus mainly on the reform of European Union legislation in the field of civil protection. The members of the Committee also took note of the report of the Defence Committee, which considered the proposal for a declaration from the point of view of its competence as a parent working body and had no comments on the proposal, and the opinion of the Commission on International Relations and European Affairs of the State Council, which also had no comments on the proposal for a declaration. There was no debate on the proposal for declarations, and the amendment of the Committee to Chapter External Affairs and Defence, Chapter Security and Defence was adopted, which is included in the supplementary proposal for a declaration together with the amendments of the Committee on European Union Affairs as an integral part of the report of the Committee. After the discussion and the vote on the amendment, the Committee voted on all parts of the Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union institutions in the period January 2013 to June 2014 in terms of its competence and accepted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group has the floor. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr President of the Government, ministerial assembly, other members of the Government! The New Slovenia Group supports the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period January 2013 to June 2014, together with the additions adopted on the home work bodies. Slovenia must continue to contribute actively to the debate on reform of the European Union and its institutions, as their effective functioning is a condition for the progress of the Member States. We are sure of this in the New Slovenia Group. The financial and economic crisis and the changing situation in the international community have sparked a new reflection on the future of the European Union and proposals for a re-establishment of its institutional arrangements. The "more Europe" syntagmo in Slovenia is understood as a deeper integration, economic, monetary, public and political, and in this context we see greater efficiency, competitiveness and democracy in the European Union. In New Slovenia, we support the intention or decision that Slovenia will continue to advocate further deepening the economic and monetary union by establishing clear rules of action, which will help to financial stability and strengthen the economy. Since the start of the financial and debt crisis, the European Union has taken important steps towards ensuring the financial stability of the euro area and the European Union as a whole. However, the measures implemented so far have not restored confidence in the financial markets. The financial crisis has exposed some shortcomings in the structure of the single currency area, which does not have the same degree of integration in the economic, fiscal and banking fields. Slovenia must therefore continue to support the deepening and strengthening of the European monetary union with the aim of achieving stronger and sustainable economic growth, employment and social cohesion. In New Slovenia, we agree that economic growth and new jobs and efficient and functioning infrastructure and a functioning single market are fundamental conditions for the progress and development of Slovenia and the European Union. Economic growth and job creation must remain a priority both in Europe and in Slovenia. The future multiannual financial framework of the Union should also make a clear contribution to this. At this point, Slovenian negotiators should be commended because at the level of the seven-year financial framework for the next financial perspective for Slovenia they have negotiated about half a billion euros more than Slovenia has received in the current or emerging financial perspective. And perhaps a short look at agriculture and rural areas. In the area of agriculture, it is right that Slovenia seeks to further promote competitiveness and the production of high quality products, taking into account sustainable principles, resource efficiency, consumer requirements, human health, animals and plants. In the future, Slovenia will also advocate the implementation of the principle of short supply chains, advocate local food supply – I stress: local food supply – and as much self-sustainment as possible – I stress: self-sustainment – also due to food insecurity in the world, as well as ensuring the greatest stability of agricultural income. In this regard, too, it will continue to advocate for the equitable development of rural areas, for the conservation of rural jobs, with rural development policies sufficiently supported by European Union funds for the implementation of the objectives. In terms of preserving identity as a fishing and maritime country, the European Union institutions will seek solutions that will enable the economic survival of fishermen and the sustainable development of European fisheries and aquaculture. It will in particular advocate due regard for the specificities and needs of small fisheries sectors in marine regions such as the Adriatic and the Mediterranean. In addition, as regards the enforcement of Slovenia's interests in the region. For Slovenia, of course, continued regional integration and support for the enlargement process of the European Union remain crucial. In the New Slovenia Group, of course, we claim that the enlargement process of the European Union is the most powerful political tool for connecting. It is therefore right for Slovenia to continue its efforts to stabilise the Western Balkans and to help the Western Balkans move closer in the negotiation process. This Slovenia closely monitors, not least Slovenia has outstanding experience here. He knows the countries of the Western Balkans, he knows the peoples of the Western Balkans, so Slovenian aid is invaluable here. We argue that a stable Balkans means a stable Europe. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group announces its support for this extremely important document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers and other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We will also support the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union for the period January 2013-June 2014, because we believe that the content of the document is well prepared. More importantly, content is a good basis for our contribution to the functioning of the European Union or its institutions. In particular, I would like to stress the correct orientation of the priority areas that we also fully agree with. In the framework of the Commission for the National Communities, we have considered the document mainly from the point of view of our work circle. I must express my gratitude that the amendments we have adopted on our committee have been adopted, which are primarily aimed at highlighting the specific treatment of the minority issue in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Jakič presented this content, so I do not want to read our concrete proposals again. I merely stress that linguistic diversity is a specific feature that cannot be fully integrated only into cultural diversity, so it was particularly important that this proposal was adopted in such a form. This is also correctly included in the introductory part. It is also particularly important that in the work on culture, education, youth, the above mentioned content relating to cultural and linguistic diversity is also covered. Finally, I stress that this area is undoubtedly the area under which Slovenia emerges in the wider context of the European Union, and it is right that in such strategic documents, as well as in part in operational documents, this content is so made public that it can also benefit all national communities in the field of Europe, while also promoting the Republic of Slovenia in its functioning and its application. Well, thank you very much, for your cooperation and our support for the declaration is assured.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u77	Your Honor! On behalf of Positive Slovenia, I am also pleased with the signed Memorandum of Understanding between the Governments of Slovenia and Croatia on the transferred foreign exchange roles of the Ljubljana Bank and as the first serious step towards ratifying the Croatian Accession Treaty. One more time, congratulations. As for the document on the table, here's the thing. The operation of Slovenia in the EU institutions is guided by this annual declaration of 18 months of guidance for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions, or since 2007. So before us is the sixth such proposal. The purpose of this type of material is to be multilayered: Slovenia's key tasks for the functioning of the EU should be clearly defined and this document should contribute to greater consistency of Slovenian positions at different levels of decision-making on EU institutions, and the document is also intended to inform the general public of the details of Slovenia's EU mission. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we believe that the proposal correctly sets out the basic principles of the functioning of Slovenia and gives different details of the activities of each area, indicating priorities. The very divisiveness of the proposal for a declaration is moving between "seeking, paying attention and monitoring", from which it can be understood the level of priority of individual areas, but in such a form the declaration does not serve as a guidance document and does not offer the possibility to strategically plan the activities of each sector in the direction of the objectives set. According to the Parliamentary Group, Positive Slovenia needs a stronger policy guidance document that will define more clearly individual areas of priority, while maintaining sufficient breadth in indicating the objectives and steps to achieve them. The strategic aspect of achieving these objectives should be covered by the action plans of individual resources, which should be created in parallel with the creation of a declaration and should address national and European action in an integrated manner. The creation of the declaration can therefore no longer be an exercise "copy-pasta" from the previous year and must be based on the political and strategic guidelines to be provided by the strategy for the development of Slovenia. In parallel with the creation of the declaration, action plans should be drawn up for individual resources, which will give priority timescales to the areas and identify the need for professional basis. As regards public awareness of Slovenia's priorities in the EU, we estimate that we have a long way to go here. We do not know in what way, if any, the declaration was made by an interested and professional public. In general, it should be noted that public participation is completely neglected in the process of establishing views on the proposals for European regulations. Hand in hand, of course, even when preparing domestic regulations, public inclusion is not very exemplary. Such practice is unacceptable as far as we are concerned. European regulations also affect the lives of our citizens and citizens, so we should find a way to involve them more in their adoption procedures. Here we only remember the infamous concessions directive, which triggered a wave of resentment between the EU population and Slovenia alone for opening the door to the privatisation of drinking water management. The Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia will support the proposed declaration, as the content guidelines are written widely enough so that it is not difficult to agree with them. However, we would like to see a sufficiently broad, intensive public debate follow up on this document in the future. Given that the EU is adopting work programmes with clear objectives, we want the documents prepared by our government to be sufficiently clear and concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the next 18 months, supported by the Group of Members. The Declaration is a document that contributes to the transparent and targeted functioning of Slovenia in the European institutions and identifies the fundamental political orientations on the strategic issues that Slovenia will face. The Declaration has been adopted by the National Assembly for eight years since Slovenia is a full member of the European Union. In this regard, acceptance of the declaration has become a routine issue, but in the SDS Group we point out that the situation in the European Union and our country is not routine, as the time of the crisis in the European Union as well as in our country continues and brings new and major challenges. The time of the crisis has brought changes to the fundamental conditions of the European and Slovenian economies, the financial markets are not consolidated, the differentiation of the Member States of the European Union is emerging. New reflections are therefore needed on the future of the European Union and the renewal of its institutions. We believe that the "more Europe" syntagma is still quite up to date, as deepening the economic and monetary, public financial and political integration of the European Union must be a permanent guide. At the same time, we are in favour of "more Europe", i.e. deeper integration, not being more expensive for Europe; therefore, at the same cost of the institutions, it is even better to have more synergies and positive consequences for the Member States at lower costs of functioning of the European Union. It rightly pointed out that we do not give up any of the fundamental values that have led us to the historical development of Europe. We are convinced that 2013, which is also the European Year of Citizens for us in Slovenia, should be used for a broad discussion with all important stakeholders of the Slovenian company to create a vision on the role and interests of Slovenia in the European Union. The priority given by the declaration is the right direction for the functioning of Slovenia. The government has obviously prepared these guidelines very well, so almost no changes have been made on the competent committees. The financial stability of the euro area and the European Union as a whole is also a permanent objective during this period. Without confidence in the financial markets, we cannot imagine an effective way out of the crisis, so it is right that Slovenia remains an advocate for the further deepening of the economic and monetary union. What is important is the tendency of Slovenia to establish a legal framework for a single supervisory mechanism in the area of the establishment of the Banking Union, particularly because of the poor functioning of the domestic regulator. The fundamental condition for the progress and development of Slovenia and the European Union are, as rightly pointed out in the declaration, economic growth and jobs, and an efficient infrastructure and a functioning single market. This priority is also the most difficult in Slovenia at the same time, but the new financial perspective of the Union, which has recently been confirmed, gives us the hope that we will draw on this financial framework the resources that will enable us to boost economic growth in due course. In the SDS Group, we stress in particular that the current government and its President, like the then Yanšev government in 2005, successfully managed to overcome Slovenia's very favourable financial position in the context of the 7-year financial perspective of the European budget, which is now nearly half a billion higher. We are already reminding ourselves that the possible new government cannot afford the same inaction and poor use of European funds as it did at the time of the previous left government, since these funds are practically the only development potential of Slovenia in the coming period. In doing so, we are especially counting on the success of Slovenia in the activation of infrastructure building funds, especially railways. Maintaining a healthy living environment and efficient use of resources has been at the forefront of Slovenia's efforts for some time and has also become part of the public's efforts. The enlargement process, with emphasis on the Western Balkan countries, is a constant of the orientation of Slovenia. The European perspective of all countries in this area cannot and must not be a lasting collateral damage to the economic and financial situation in the European Union. Slovenia must warn the European institutions and countries of the European Union that the stepmother's attitude towards this area can be a time bomb with unheard of consequences. We are pleased that the current government has also created conditions through effective diplomacy for Slovenia to ratify Croatia's accession treaty with no bad consequences for Slovenia. In this regard, we have in mind Croatia's binding agreement on the solution to the problem of the savers of the Ljubljana Bank in the framework of the successful commitments or today's parish of the Memorandum of Understanding, for which we, of course, congratulate the Government in our parliamentary group. The SDS Group, irrespective of the colour of the future government coalition, will closely and responsibly monitor the implementation and achievement of the commitments resulting from this declaration. Our Members will be active and constructive in the face of the challenges of the future government. As the current government has adopted all key reforms, including the case of Croatia, the path of the new ministers to Brussels will be more relaxed than the path of the current ministers. We want the possible left government to come closer to the success of the current and previous spring-oriented government in promoting Slovenia's interests in the institutions of the European Union. This will make it easier to ensure that Slovenia remains part of the area of justice, freedom and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u81	Respected and respected! Initially, Europe is not just a place where Slovenia is; therefore, we must not be interested in Europe just because Slovenia is part of this Europe. We must also be interested as a whole; we are this Europe, and we must ask ourselves, from the perspective of Slovenia and our strategic interests, again and again, how we will strengthen this Europe, after it is not just Slovenia, but the whole European space of the economic and social crisis, in order to be more active in overcoming the challenges of this time. We therefore lack serious and creative reflection on how to strengthen Europe in order to make what some predecessors have said "more Europe" a reality. At European level, everything since the outbreak of the crisis has shown that Europe can effectively develop some anti-crisis mechanisms, including the problems created by the crisis or the cause of the crisis. On the other hand, we must find that the process of designing and adopting these decisions is long-lasting and painful and that it is also difficult within the European Union to reach agreement on key things, such as those that could represent a significant gain for Slovenia, but are not in the interest of some other countries. The Declaration therefore sets out our country's priorities for action in the European Union and in its institutions over the next 18 months and the material undoubtedly contributes to the transparency of this policy. The question is whether the declaration itself brings something new. However, from a range of sectoral orientations so far, we can talk about economic governance, financial affairs, migration, the internal market, the European neighbourhood, we can see that the declaration summarizes more or less the existing orientations of Slovenia and Europe. Time requires us to think more creatively about what we can do in a given situation, so that more Europe will be among us tomorrow and that Slovenia within Europe will be better qualified for these challenges. Because I do not want to repeat the kind of principled guidelines that the predecessors have already welcomed and we will join the Social Democrats in this greeting, only four specific points. In particular, we highlight the area of economic and monetary governance, the deepening of the economic and monetary union is the right step to get an appropriate European mechanism so that we can add and implement our monetary union a fiscal level. We welcome Slovenia's success in negotiations with a new financial perspective, in particular in terms of the benefits that Slovenia can benefit from on cohesion policy, but stress that the negotiated package in Brussels does not in itself mean anything unless we adapt better internally and prepare that we will be able to draw on more European funds through operational programmes. In this respect, we call on all political forces and the incoming government to simplify the administrative framework for more efficient European funds. It's obviously a permanent assignment. In the case of taxation, it is worth pointing out the introduction of a financial transaction tax, which we Social Democrats, as well as our European allies, have been defending for a long time, we are pleased that it is becoming a reality. Despite some declaration commitments, however, we lack more concrete commitments and measures to combat tax havens in order to limit tax fraud and tax evasion. Tax havens are one of the biggest problems in the system in which we live, the dysfunctions that cause money to be diverted away from the real economy where it is actually created. We welcome the intention to invest more in R & D, which is the second point. The aim of the Europe 2020 strategy is to target as much as 3% of the gross domestic product for research through public and private investment as well, to expand and complete the European Research Area and to strengthen the link between the economy and science, with researchers, to promote public-private cooperation, and to finance and practical applications for scientific achievements in the economy. We welcome Slovenia's efforts to improve research career opportunities in cross-border and European projects, with families friendly models, to attract the largest number of women and young people to this cooperation and research work at the European level. Third time. Young as one of our key priorities, the generation that loses most during the current crisis and needs the most attention, because the untapped opportunities of young people, their inability to take care of their social perspective in a given situation, constitute or may represent the greatest structural and long-term harm in this crisis. In this respect, young people need more support both in Europe and in our national context. We strongly support the proposed position of the Republic of Slovenia that we need an effective horizontal youth policy that will affect all areas of importance for young people, depending on the success and effectiveness of our community in order to provide active support. We are signing under this, but we stress that we also need such a horizontal policy of youth policies at home. The National Youth Programme, the Youth Employment Strategy and other policies are long awaited, but they are still not in place as comprehensive action plans in the National Assembly. It is essential to increase the employability of young people. In doing so, we welcome the Youth Employment Package adopted by the Commission last December as a good and necessary, but it is also necessary to implement and adapt as quickly as possible to our situation, in particular through the Youth Employment Guarantee Scheme. In doing so, we note that, despite the declarations of commitments, some solutions, such as volunteer traineeship, are unfortunately not solved by the latest measures in the labour market. We need to recognise more informal and informal learning and strengthen structured dialogue to strengthen communication with young people and to apply the principle of 'nothing about young people without young people' in a consistent manner. And finally, fourth time. Enlargement of the European Union. We are concerned about some of the statements made by the visible leaders of European countries, which, after Croatia's entry, limit the further European perspective, especially to the countries of South-Eastern Europe. This is Slovenia's national interest. It is our national interest to train the European Union as soon as possible to open the door of full membership for other countries in the Balkans. This is in our economic, cultural and political interest. The European perspective is not a perspective if it is far away. In this respect, we are working to reach real but more ambitious dates so that this process does not die after Croatia's entry into the European Union. The enlargement of the European Union to the Balkans is not just an opportunity for countries such as Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania and others. This is also an opportunity for the European Union. In doing so, the Social Democrats welcome the memorandum on resolving the issue of the Ljubljana Bank, and we believe that this removed the last obstacle to ratifying the accession treaty for Croatia's entry into the European Union as soon as possible in the National Assembly. We are looking forward to these ratifications and the Social Democrats will once again be one of the green lights for Croatia's entry into the European Union. The Group of the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs Polonca Komar, on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear ministerial team, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today there is a strategic document before us, which is the framework and basis for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union from January 2013 to June 2014. These are the key political orientations and priorities of the Republic of Slovenia for operating in the institutions of the European Union. Like most European countries, Slovenia is also in a crisis that affects its development, economic development and the general climate of our population. However, the situation we are in can also be seen as a challenge and, as a Member State of the European Union, we can take advantage of all the opportunities and opportunities offered to us in the enlarged market. During the years of existence, the European Union is working towards the greatest possible financial stability and strengthening of the economy, but we must recognise that it is also fighting a loss of confidence in financial markets. We therefore join in deepening and strengthening the economic and monetary union with the aim of achieving stronger and more sustainable economic growth in employment and social cohesion. We see great importance in improving the transparency of the functioning of the European Union and in the efforts to make its institutions more efficient. We see the opportunity of Slovenia in economic growth and job creation, which remains a priority for the period 2013 to 2014. In doing so, we must not forget to improve the mobility of workers, with a major role to play in building a single European transport network. I particularly welcome the establishment of a stable and effective business support environment, as we believe small and medium-sized enterprises are driving economic development. We must not forget, however, those living in this wider space, their health, nutrition, safety and health-friendly environment, if we wish for economic development. We must therefore strive for such an environmental policy that will ensure this. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want to live in a social and legal and also a safe country. As the European Union expands, external borders move and we want the movement of people within the Union to be free and rapid. In doing so, we remain advocates of the enlargement process. The European Union is also on the path of major changes, and it is important that we actively participate in the debate on its reform and the conditions for the progress of the Member States. The year 2013 is the European Year of Citizens, which takes place under the slogan "It is about Europe, it is about you" and comes at a decisive stage in European integration. It means the 20th anniversary of European Union citizenship, which was introduced in 1993 by the Maastricht Treaty. The proposal for a declaration provides a good basis for economic recovery and further strengthening the competitiveness of the European Union, and we will therefore support it in the National Gazette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support a proposal for a declaration setting out seven key priority areas for the political direction of the Republic of Slovenia to operate in the institutions of the European Union from January 2013 to June 2014 and setting operational priorities for working in the Council during this period. The complementary declaration with the additions adopted seems to us a suitable basis for the targeted functioning of Slovenia in connection and in particular for a more transparent functioning within the institutions of the European Union. In particular, in the case of Slovenia, we would like to stress the importance of some of the priorities for the functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, which are certainly an opportunity to get out of the crisis and as an opportunity for Slovenia and in-depth, sustainable development for our country and for the European Union as a whole. We therefore express our support for the supplement adopted, which obliges us to keep the Members in line with our powers to monitor and carry out procedures to monitor compliance with subsidiarity both in legislative acts, in the institutions of the European Union and in the political dialogue with the European Commission. It is also very important for us that the National Assembly be adequately involved in the control and process of creating a genuine and in-depth economic and monetary union. The document, in our view, is very important for the development of the Slovenian economy, as it arises at a time that can be broken and with appropriate measures the crisis can nevertheless turn to better. Slovenia should therefore implement specific, adapted measures which are of particular importance to the Slovenian economy. We have neglected vocational education too much in the past, so it needs to be regulated more meaningfully in the future and given more attention. On the other hand, there is a big problem of unemployment in Slovenia, especially among the first job seekers, among young people. While we hope that the adoption of new labour legislation will remove a number of pitfalls on unemployment, we must nevertheless pay considerable attention to youth employment and education and take advantage of the possibility within the European Union if we are to prevent further brain drains abroad. It is therefore necessary to seek within the budget resources to improve access to European funding, help design concrete projects and make effective use of these. The key focus on improving life is also environmental concern; in particular, resource efficiency, quality of living, preservation of a healthy living environment, biodiversity, production of safe and quality food can be a start-up for the economy on the one hand and, on the other hand, are the best preventions for a better and healthier life. In working within the European Union, too, preventive measures should be encouraged instead of curative and associated awareness-raising of the population, which could have a better impact than mere curativeness on improving the level of health of the population. The area of transport links is certainly important for the future development of Slovenia, so we stress the importance of efforts to preserve the status of the port of Koper and its connection to the hinterland as well as the continued preservation of Slovenia in links within the network of European transport corridors and the restoration of existing and new infrastructure. However, the issue of the supervision and effective functioning of modern public services is constantly emerging. Inefficientness and lack of control have been seen in the crisis in all its weaknesses, and it is therefore necessary to strengthen compliance with commitments and measures in the field of tax fraud, tax evasion and tax evasion, as stated in the adoption of the Supplement to the Home Committee. Whether we will succeed depends primarily on us Members, so I hope that we will find a common language and at least externally in the context of the functioning of the European institutions in the future, together with any government, find a common language and perform more unitedly with a view and truly in the interests of development and a more successful future for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the supplementary proposal for a declaration. Mrs Janja Klasinc has the floor to prepare Mr Bevk only.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, eight times in the National Assembly, we are discussing the text of a declaration drawn up by our country for better integration with the European Union. For eight years we've been writing down our goals, finding out how it works, and we all still have the feeling that we don't feel enough that we're really European. Maybe we, the officials do, but the citizens are less. All public opinion research at home and in Europe shows the growing estrangement of European Union citizens from European Union bodies. This is a problem that we will have to overcome in the coming years. It seems that Brussels and Strasbourg have become overly liberal, perhaps as a result of all this, that we too are being bureaucratic on the inside. I do not know if these governments that have worked in Slovenia after joining the European Union have given sufficient attention to the coordination of all projects of the various ministries towards the direction of the European Union. We must be aware that we are the Slovenians who can equally influence a decision taken in Brussels as someone else. In Parliament, because there are different relationships, there are countries that are larger, but in the Council of Ministers and in the Council at all, in the Commission, where our power is equal and in some areas we are more successful, in some less. Of course, Slovenia is no exception, and other countries may be too alienated from the European Union, but the common goal is to actually feel this Europe as soon as possible as possible. Allow me to pay a little more attention to foreign policy today, because this is my area. I could say that Slovenia has been less satisfied in this area in previous years than it was this year with regard to its representation, its presence in the European Union. Let me start with the human resources area. We have experienced a problem in the past with the Common European External Action Service, where, as a small country, we knew we could not have many diplomats in this common service, but we still felt that we should have something more. In the last year and a half things have changed in part, for us a diplomat can make great progress, and so we now have former Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar as the European Union Special Representative and Head of the European Mission in Kosovo, where he makes an important contribution. It is no wonder that Lady Ashton and other co-workers decided to seek a representative in Kosovo or perhaps somewhere else in the Balkans right between Slovenian diplomats. All Europe sees us as the country that understands processes in the Western Balkans somehow the easiest. And that's true! For a while, we have warmed up, and we may not have been aware enough, and that is what we know about our economy. The very years that we may have been running too far from the Balkans have proved to be a downside when they took advantage of the opportunity of other Member States of the European Union, such as Germany, Austria, Italy, and have made significant use of their economic power in this area. Slovenia is now fighting to gain those positions that it already had 20 years ago and would have made them easier to establish. In times of economic crisis, this is very important. Of course, it would be bad to look very narrowly at this area and say that only the Balkans is our priority. Therefore, I am pleased to see in the declaration of this direction that Slovenia sees globally, to see its opportunities in the Gulf, South America and elsewhere, especially in the BRIX countries, this is in fast-growing economies that can open up great opportunities for Slovenia in the economic field. As I mentioned earlier about the Balkans, I would not like to miss the importance of the enlargement of the European Union. I would also like to join my fear of my colleague, Frangež, who mentioned earlier that this economic crisis could possibly deny the journey to the European Union to the countries in the Western Balkans, which are striving to become full members as soon as possible. Slovenia played an extremely important role here. Without Slovenia, Croatia may be more difficult to come to the European Union, even though not everyone is aware of it; we have always stressed the importance of this. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Kaiser, who is with us today, the Ambassador and the Secretary of State and Foreign Minister Erjavac and Prime Minister Janez Janša, who have accelerated the process of resolving the issue with the Ljubljana Bank. It is right that we resolve this as soon as possible, and it is right that we ratify Croatia's accession treaty in this Parliament as soon as possible, because it would not be right for Slovenia to appear to be the one to block this path. However, we need to know that there are also open issues in other countries. Serbia was granted candidate status one year ago, and it will now be one year in March. Slovenia supports the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union as soon as possible. Montenegro started negotiations last year and is making good progress. The problem is Bosnia and Herzegovina and Macedonia, definitely. I assess myself as well as other foreign policy actors in this country, so that Bosnia and Herzegovina should be placed on its own feet as quickly as possible, but it is also responsible in the European Union. I do not think that the European Union is aware of the importance of its assistance to this country, because without this, it will not work. Macedonia has had a shameful status as a candidate since 2005, and the Commission has already concluded four times that the state has met the conditions for starting negotiations with the European Union and that this alone is not possible because of the name and the complications with Greece. Slovenia is working to make Macedonia a full member of the European Union as soon as possible and deserves it. We hope that Albania will also gain candidate status this year, and Kosovo is waiting a little longer on this route. With regard to Turkey, of course Slovenia has always supported Turkey's involvement in Europe, but in the last period, Turkey's negotiations with the European Union have stalled and we are all concerned that for two years Turkey has not opened any negotiating area in this area. Why did I make this expansion so important? Because I am confident that the European Union will live as a real Europe only when all these countries I have mentioned so far will truly become full members of the European Union, and then we will be able to speak about the real Europe with all our diversity and diversity. With regard to Slovenia's great merits in the area of enlargement of the European Union and its efforts, we may not be able to say for some other areas. I note that sometimes we are too passive in our decisions, and I find this on the basis of the work of the Committee on Foreign Policy. We hear several times from representatives of the Government about the individual issues that are being addressed in the world of ministers in order to take the position that the majority of the members will take. We've been initiating things too many times. We may have a different attitude. This was known in the case of Palestine, so you won't say I'm criticizing at all. Look, Palestine has rejected most members of the European Union for a long time, and we have been following and captivating it, although in fact Palestine wanted to reach its statehood or wants to reach its statehood in the same way as Slovenia did, with self-determination. Unfortunately, this self - determination was not acknowledged by the last government, despite the fact that 138 other countries in the United Nations General Assembly did so when the session was held. This is a black point on Slovenian foreign policy and such black dots should no longer be available. Perhaps we should sometimes step a little further out of our context, look at the problems more globally. Finally, I would say that we will succeed both Slovenians and all Europeans if we are to be more proactive, if we are to be more pervasive, if we forget that it is the only money that leads, but that they must be the main guide of value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the floor to prepare Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Declaration sets out the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia or the basic strategic direction in the field of European affairs in terms of the tasks and activities that Slovenia will carry out within the Council and the European Council. The material also contributes mainly to our country's clear and transparent policy in European affairs in the 18-month period. I think I can already say from the beginning that we can accept this document today, although it bears the date of December 2012 and somehow it is already the third month of this 18-month period and we could prepare this material earlier. In my view, the main priority of the Republic of Slovenia is the issue of the European budget for the period 2014 to 2020. It is very important how an individual country negotiates what kind of financial framework is available. The European Parliament does not support the reduction of the European budget, aware that the budget of the European Union is largely purely of an investment nature and, as our European Ambassador Mojca Kleva says, the budget must remain high enough to address unemployment, economic growth and cohesion between Member States during the time of the crisis. It is worrying enough that there are already more than 26 million unemployed people in the European Union, as well as in Slovenia, we are approaching very quickly in 1993, when we had 133 000 unemployed people in employment institutions. In view of the budget adopted, however, the most important in the next phase is the Member State’s ability to draw on these resources. Therefore, our administration must proceed as quickly as possible to prepare all necessary implementing documents and concrete projects on the basis of which the next multiannual financial framework can be implemented as soon as possible. The investment potential of our country is almost exclusively linked to the ability to draw on European funds, because own money is very little or only enough to follow projects supported by the European Union's financial funds with our shares. Only for illustration: we can gain such wide access to international waters and the open sea through an arbitration agreement, if we do not have ready projects and money to build a third pier and upgrade the railway infrastructure or build a second track. Therefore, my question would be to the representatives of the government: How many projects are we ready for? As an inheritance in this area, what do you leave any new government? In particular, how many such projects are prepared in the field of cultural heritage? Your Honor! The European Union has been implementing a enlargement project for more than four decades. From the first six members, their number will rise on 1 July 2013 with the accession of the Republic of Croatia to 28. We actively support and seek to continue the enlargement process of the European Union, and therefore our priority is to extend to the Western Balkan countries in particular. This morning, a memorandum of agreement was initialled between the governments of Slovenia and Croatia on the transferred foreign exchange deposits of the Ljubljana Bank. Thus, the Croatian Government has ensured that all judicial proceedings on this issue are stopped and the Slovenian Government has committed itself to initiate a procedure in the National Assembly to ratify the Croatian Accession Treaty to the European Union. I hope that this will happen earlier than it did in a month, so, of course, also on my part, congratulations to all negotiators who have achieved this success of our foreign policy. The resolution of outstanding issues with the neighbouring friendly country is, of course, in the vital interest of our country. The arbitration agreement, the question of the Ljubljana Bank and the ratification of the Association Agreement are therefore well on track to conclude in mutual favour and be respected by both sides. This is so much more important because economic cooperation between Slovenia and Croatia is excellent, as trade between countries is more than €2 billion. Of course, I will support the declaration, as I said at the outset, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the word to prepare Dr. Ljubica Jelusič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to colleagues, ministers and other members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from this city as well! Every time I go through documents such as today's proposal for a declaration, I am in fact extremely pleased and see how good the referendum decision of Slovenian citizens and citizens to join the European Union has been. Today, the countries and nations with which we sometimes lived together have some regret that they have remained so behind, but our responsibility is, we also feel this responsibility in the National Assembly to help them on this European path. Very briefly, because I do not have time, I will touch on the chapters of Transport, Telecommunications and Energy, namely the telecommunications and information society sub-chapters or the digital agenda. I have also talked about this on the working body and the first paragraph of this subsection is very talkative, which says: 'The Digital Single Market must be completed by 2015.' Done! "Slovenia supports the objectives of the Digital Agenda and agrees that future efforts should be made to accelerate the development of this area." When I talk about the digital agenda or broadband networks, then I think of the claim of a famous Slovenian internet technology expert who says that technological progress, as electricity has brought about in the 1950s, such as the Slovenian countryside, Prekmurje I have here in mind, such progress today actually means the establishment or construction of broadband networks. Of course not just infrastructure, like equipment, as hardware, of course I also mean here and especially on applications. This comparison may seem ridiculous to someone, but really, once we understand it this way, then we will really take a more energetic and effective approach to the realization of these projects. I believe that projects are taking place in this area, but I would also suggest to the future government that it does not reject them and that it continues to intensify them. Here's a word about the European Union's common foreign policy. I'm sorry she's not here. Until the EU has a common foreign policy, it will not be an important player in foreign policy until then. The European Union is also an integral part of the Quartet, which is supposed to solve the problem of the Middle East peace issue or process, but if we are not united, then the solution is not soon to be seen. If we had a single foreign policy in the European Union, we would probably have made a slightly easier decision on the Palestinian issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, get Mr. Happy Meh ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I note that we have before us an important, consistent document in this declaration, which shows in one place how complex and comprehensive the functioning of each country in the institutions of the European Union is actually. It also points to some sort of planning of this cooperation, but I think that such a document should leave – and I think so – enough room to respond to unforeseen events. At the same time, it is important that such a document takes account of some kind of balance between national interests and common European interests. This movement or struggle to enforce or maintain national interest will always be present. However, it seems to me that in some area it is important to take into account that the concern for national interest when it comes to the European Union may need to be put aside slightly. This is a matter of civil protection mechanisms and, above all, of situations that we face when natural disasters occur. We are within and outside the European Union, affected by various natural disasters and do not know these borders. Fortunately, the European Union has a very important mechanism for civil protection, and Slovenia has been one of those countries that has worked very hard to exceed the borders of the Member States of the European Union years ago, during the Presidency, and to include candidate countries in the European Union. I hope that this pace of Slovenia's efforts to extend this mechanism to other countries will continue in the future, as we, who are very exposed to natural disasters, must be aware of the need to be willing to help others, and you can only expect other countries to come to your aid – either the Member States of the European Union or others. In this regard, it is very important that this concept of cooperation within the framework of civil protection is also maintained when it comes to bilateral relations with the countries to which we are bordering. Some of these processes are essentially going on and are very successful, and we can actually very much commend them. For example, cooperation between Furlania-Julia Krajina and Slovenia in the area of mountain rescue in the border mountains or in the field of firefighting cooperation, where the training centre in Sežana also holds courses where firefighters from both sides of the border also participate in order to understand the language of each other when working together and to know the organisation of each other. We also have not so good experience from other bilateral co-operations, such as relations with Austria when it comes to regulating watersheds in lakes near hydroelectric power plants and consequently floods in Slovenia. However, this issue, which would necessarily need to be regulated in the future and this segment does not actually concern such very civil protection, concerns more the question of a common agreement on the regulation of waters between Austria and Slovenia. As far as such cooperation with Hungary is concerned, we have not yet taken many steps. However, as far as cooperation with Croatia is concerned, it seems to me that it is now in these days, yesterday, when we are very pleased with the progress made in negotiations with Croatia, it would be good to consider how to put in place more effective cooperation processes with this country in the area of mutual solidarity when it comes to issues of natural disasters. I would like to draw attention to another dilemma that is evident in this declaration, even when it comes to the issue of civil protection, namely the so-called rapid intervention unit in cases of natural disasters. Slovenia has a specific position on how to mobilise this unit – I think it is right and I support it. I would point out, however, that this unit actually shows one trend towards professionalising civil protection at the level of the European Union. Here is where this issue of our national interest is now raised. Slovenia will have to maintain its specific position on these issues, a large number of volunteers we have involved in the units of protection, rescue and assistance and, in fact, a rather difficult relationship between the number of professionals in this system and the number of volunteers. As far as defence is concerned, as some have already mentioned today, it has taken a firm stand on the path of membership in the European Union for ten years since Slovenia, with the help of the referendum, of course. Some then argued that if Slovenia was a member of the European Union and that it was not necessary to become a member of NATO when it came to the issue of defence forces. At that time, there were euphoric times, talking about 50,000, 60,000 members of the European Defence Forces. Today, 10 years from then, we can see that this euphoria is gone and that we are very far away from the European defence forces and that the problems are also in completing European combat groups. Finally, Slovenia must contribute to this and make every effort to ensure that, when the time comes, its rotation in these European combat groups provides an adequate number of its troops. We do know, however, that the problems of maintaining an adequate number of professional soldiers and that it will probably be difficult to ensure this in the future. As for Slovenia's participation in European Union missions, I must say that I am very pleased that this cooperation is taking place in accordance with the strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in November 2009 and published in March 2010 and then also entered into force. Although it was a government document, that document had enough, we can say, broad support for the various political factors in Slovenia and therefore that document has in fact survived. That is why I must say that I am pleased that the current government – and I hope that another future – will make sure that when it comes to international missions, it is in line with this document. This document significantly improved the position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the decision-making process when it comes to the issue of international missions. In this mandate we had the opportunity to participate in the decision-making process for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in Mali, within the framework of the European Training Mission in Mali. On this occasion, however, I would point to one segment of this declaration, which speaks of the attitude of the Republic of Slovenia to Syria or to Syrian rebels. I estimate that it would be very cautious to judge our attitude towards the Syrian rebels. The events that we were able to follow yesterday, including the capture of members of the United Nations and the UNDOF mission by one of the common Syrian rebels, show that it is a force that is not counted on to respect international war law or the law of armed conflict, so it would indicate that we remain cautious and also on the line that we have advocated within the Foreign Policy Committee when it comes to maintaining sanctions against Syria within the European Union, where we do not have a unified opinion, but I hope that Slovenia will also maintain its position in the future, which is that the arms embargo is maintained, at least as far as the European Union is concerned, in the future. As it is said, I am also led by events that we could have followed yesterday, and we need to know that not far from here, on the Israeli side and in the other mission, on the UNCO mission, we Slovenians also have their members and members, so their security must be very important when we decide on our positions as regards international missions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor to prepare Mrs Jasmina Opec and then Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u95	Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe we're all thinking it right and we're discussing it right. I listened attentively to the President of the Government, who for 40 minutes explained what the Government had done and what the European Community was supposed to do. We are interested in what Slovenia has done to preserve jobs and the good situation of the economy within the European Community. It may be easy to say that there is no economic growth and no jobs; but, excuse me, there are no jobs and therefore there is no economic growth. Therefore, in negotiations with the European Community, we should do everything that allows us to make the economy, and companies within Slovenia will have a better and better position. When we talked about craftsmen, we said that we had protected our craftsmen sufficiently from craftsmen elsewhere. A lot of people think they don't. But today, let's say there was a speech about a big step being taken with the memorandum. However, MEP Tanja Fajon says that Croatia provides for the suspension of judicial proceedings, and my question to the President in resignation or to the outgoing President is: Have Croats stopped or have they waived legal claims and judicial proceedings in Croatia? If they do not, we should be given an answer, then this is an extremely important question for us and we have not received an answer to this today. We are talking about the European Union and the framework in which we can work, and within this we are setting specific limits that are extremely problematic for us. For example, the Government reportedly adopted a regulation on the construction of simple facilities on 28 this month, with which it is very difficult to intervene without discussion, without professional or any responses to the space and where it also makes it impossible for local communities to have their space. But we should, if I were to reflect on what I have been talking about and what I would also like to get an answer to, actually talk about whether we have set up a platform with our views to ensure that we operate, such as energy. Will energy within the European market be able to maintain the autonomy or so much autonomy that it does within the European Community, and will we maintain the independence of this energy and the accessibility of everyone who actually needs it here? Is this what we really want, and it forms the skeletons of our country, and of course also in some way the skeleton of what we say is our economy? We should be extremely careful to protect all those of our societies and areas where we have the opportunity to maintain jobs and create new jobs. First, care should be taken to maintain jobs and immediately thereafter to open jobs. You were talking about cohesion funds. I will not repeat all of this, but in every way it seems to me that energy is an area where we will have to, especially because we are threatened with lawsuits or we already have lawsuits in this area, to answer what we have done here this year – at the end of the year we will not be able to tell what the government has done three years earlier, but what we have done this year – and that we are also talking about energy about what is self-sustainment, what is with renewable resources, what is the question raised by producers of renewable resources or elements and which within Slovenia is an extremely big problem. These are all things that I think are extremely important in order to take advantage, within the European Community, of everything that this European Community offers us as an instrument for people to have a job with us, so that they do not have to drive to neighbouring countries within a single European Community that can provide a suitable position. And the key area, ladies and gentlemen, is our activity in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Ficko has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Ivan Vogrin and then Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u97	Greetings to all of you on my behalf, too! My view of the guidance declaration will be from the agricultural field. One, of course, is guidance and objectives on a declaration basis and actions show us otherwise. We have written declaratively that our objectives of producing safe and quality food, producing high quality products, short supply chains, increased self-sustainment, food as strategic raw materials and so on. Everything's fine and fine up here. It is, unfortunately, different in implementation or practice. Self-sustainment is low, below 40%, mainly for those products with a higher added value than for vegetables, not to mention pigs. We still have an external trade deficit in food for a billion people. It is true that, on the basis of subsidies, we have the production of raw materials, not food. That the economy in agriculture is poor, as far as profitability is concerned, we have already discussed. That the factor income below the average of the European Union, that added value is low, is said to indicate that the current agricultural policy does not indicate a change in line with the objectives that we are committed to. In the area of forestry, it is stated that we will have sustainable forest management; that we will have active management in particular, which is not shown to us by non-economic forest management; that on the one hand we use the 25 million euros circus for public forestry; on the other hand, we get the poor 13 million euros on concessions; that we cut down too little and so on in private forests; that we export only cold water together with biomass, that the timber industry is destroyed. Sometimes I feel that when we defend our goals and negotiate in Brussels, we say one thing when we come home, work in our own interests and not in line with our objectives. Such a policy will have to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Mr Ivan Simčič, then Mr Franz Pukšič, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will not discuss the importance of this document because there has been a lot of talk at the principle level by my fellow Members and colleagues. I will also not comment on the presentation of this document. But I would like to say something similar to what Mr Ficko said: that it would be good to ever compare actions and attitudes, orientations and policies and perhaps hear what we do not like to hear. I am looking at the latest letter from Lászlá Andorra, European Commissioner, stressing the need for selective austerity measures, and I will stop here. But I'll point to something else. We are saying that Slovenia remains part of the area of justice, freedom and security, and on these issues, which are very well recorded in the introduction to the principle level, then warned that the following declaration does contain one thing which, also from the experience of legal proceedings on the home labour body of the Committee on Internal Affairs, embarrasses me because it says here that Slovenia supports the establishment of a common European asylum system that will bring up asylum standards and increase the rights of refugees, at the same time points out the possible negative consequences of the reformed legislation and so on. What am I reminding you of? In order to be able, for example, to change legislation in the National Assembly, when we lower already achieved standards laid down in the adopted legislation - I mean the Law on International Protection - and because this is also linked to the financial perspective and the absorption of European funds, I would point out that we have waived legal aid, that first legal aid has been reduced in the sense of saving, even though the State of Slovenia has given only EUR 12 000 out of its resources, and the second was European. This is the financing of NGOs that offer this assistance. I am not going to continue here because I have discussed some other aspects on my mother's working body, but I would like to draw attention to some other things that seem very specific to me. In the section Culture and Audiovisual Policy, I would like to stress that it is very good for Slovenia to use, in its relationship with the creation of European Capitals of Culture in the future, the experience gained as European Capital of Culture by Maribor with partner cities, because this is the experience we will be able to develop, place, continue and show how this can be achieved. Of course, in the context of this chapter, I would draw attention to many of the things that I have been missing in my domestic attitude towards culture and cultural policy in recent times, and I hope that in this future perspective, the idea that cultural people themselves often express that we should not see – for me, this is a national resource – is only lonely, but in relation to all other policies and resources, because it will only then have the right effects. The third point I intend to touch on the declaration is employment, social affairs and equal opportunities. Here I think it is very important that Slovenia participates in the adoption of a directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of persons regardless of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, with which the European Union wants to establish a single minimum level of protection against discrimination beyond employment and vocational training. Why am I warning you this? Because we have a new Law on Religious Freedom in our legislative procedure, I do not think that it follows these principles, which are set out here in this Directive. I think that neither to many others nor to the future will Slovenia have to answer the question of how to place an advocate of the principle of equal treatment in the system, so that it can actually implement a non-discriminatory policy, because the advocate of the principle of equal treatment is also in a place where the Ombudsman cannot. The Ombudsman shall only refer to an individual State or an individual and an institution, and the supporter may also apply to the private sector. Just the last one. Slovenia, according to this document, supports the strengthening of gender mainstreaming in the European Union 2020 Strategy with special emphasis and so on – you have certainly read it. But what I want to stress in particular is that sometimes principle guidance can only be a dead guide that does not experience realization, so I think we should make these things more effective in Slovenia. I hope that, as in the Government Act, a new ministry will be set up, including a complement to "and equal opportunities", at least at the symbolic level this part of the policies that are very prominent in Europe will also be implemented. I would like to see the continuation of what will certainly be one of the main themes during the chairmanship of the next Tria, namely the proposal for a directive on gender balance in non-executive corporate decision-making positions. So far, Slovenia has not been one of those who would have had doubts about supporting this Directive. I hope that in the future it will be even more decisive in representing and overcoming those who are the most decisive inhibitors of these positions. These are sometimes, it's surprising, especially liberals, who say they can't handle such types of restrictions. For the last time, with all the favourable statistics that we will be reading before tomorrow's International Women's Day, but I would like to say that the expected life expectancy of women is really high, but what worries me is that for 8 years we are lagging behind the European average when we talk about how much of a woman's life we live healthy. The European average is 62 years, Slovenian average is 54. In order for a long-lived society to move forward in this direction, not only to have a long life but also to have a long healthy life, my final thought on this declaration is that it will be possible to have even more costly and more concrete effects in subsequent declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Get ready, mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! This declaration of orientation for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the period January 2013 June 2014 also states that, among other things, Slovenia will continue to seek greater transparency in the functioning of the EU and also in the light of the EU's good functioning for the efficiency of institutions. Without this sentence, we could have done much more for all the areas listed here: energy, economy and so on. You know, it was in the National Assembly that we made a catastrophic mistake in 2008, on February 1st, when the SD at the time did not support the proposal to establish the provinces. If we had provinces, cohesion funds would also be significantly better exploited than they are today. Remember, when the then government and Minister Ivan Žagar left from this area, I warned already in 2009 that there would be at least one billion euros left in Brussels. If we didn't fix a lot of things this year, of course, everything can't be replaced in one year, which was first introduced in three years, then there would be more money left in Europe. Otherwise, the coming new government is also responsible for what has not been done before and we will see what you will do here. If we had landscapes, there would be significantly less unemployment and vocational education, and all other things would be better because they are definitely up to now, and at least until recently, they are the main guarantee of the development of the same congregation, which some have also been able to criticize so much. There's a lot of stuff in there that says what's necessary and what we would do, and I'll say this: yesterday, with a fellow member of the Ministry of Education, I attended a presentation or a copy of the new edition of the book Earth has a heart. One of the discussers said that even the soul, which is true, and if instead of this declaration, were to accept this book, or if Members and Members were to read this book at least without escape, they would quickly find that only nature should be heard and then acted in this direction. One of the questions was: Are you not afraid of what will happen to the earth, to the planet? The writer of this book’s answer was not to be afraid. The earth as such, the planet, will be restored and settled, but it will therefore demand payment, interest. He'll behave just like a capitalist. Capitalists want interest; as high as possible, the better. They don't care how the rest of them live. What am I trying to say, and what is the conclusion of this teaching? We all want the best for our children. What we leave them — a nature that is poisoned, destroyed, degraded. This planet will demand interest. Our explorers will pay for all the enormous nonsense that is happening today in the whole world and even in our home. It's enough, you know, just the information that the sun gives us a thousand times the energy we need today. In this direction, thinking should be done both at home and in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. It's mag. Damjana Petavar Dobovšek, prepare Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic and then Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I warmly welcome the Minister, Secretary of State and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, my fellow Members and Members! At the outset, let me take the floor to congratulate myself on the agreement on how to resolve the issue of the Ljubljana Bank between governments and congratulations on the agreement on the next steps towards ratifying the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. With regard to today's topic itself, i.e. the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union for the period January 2013 to June 2014, I would like to put a stop to macroeconomic policy. This is one of these priorities, namely the exercise of our interests in the institutions of the European Union. I think it is very important that Slovenia is trying to integrate and focus its cooperation on one of the priority areas and tasks, namely, macroeconomic policy and economic and monetary union. I support Slovenia's efforts in its initiatives to deepen and strengthen the economic and monetary union, which includes the creation of a banking union. I believe that the creation of a banking union is one of the most important future institutions, which will also oversee national regulators and supervisors across countries in the European Union, which I think is extremely important for financial stability in the euro area. Especially at a time when we are facing measures to get out of the crisis. I also support the creation of a specific instrument of solidarity or steps in the establishment of this instrument of so-called fiscal capacity, which I believe would be very necessary and important in order to mitigate the possible negative consequences of structural reforms and the economic cycle in individual Member States of the European Union. I also find it very important to support Slovenia in setting up an integrated financial framework, the first step of which represents a single banking control mechanism with the central role of the European Central Bank. In this context, I also support further steps to implement the overall regulatory framework, including appropriate regulation of the framework for the resolution of financial institutions and guarantees for applications and the implementation of the rules adopted. I also support consistent solutions on all these legislative proposals relating to bank regulation and supervision. These are all legislative proposals concerning capital requirements and the rehabilitation and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms. In the area of taxation, I attach great importance to and support the introduction of a financial transaction tax, both at the level of the European Union as a whole and at the level of a larger group of Member States. I think that this financial transaction tax, which is much to be discussed, can be used as an additional source of funding for the European Union budget, but – and this is also supported by Slovenia in this declaration – provided that this tax is introduced at the level of the European Union as a whole. Unless Member States which have introduced this tax are also provided with a proportionate reduction in their contribution to the European Union budget in some other way. It is also necessary to amend and supplement the Directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and the continuation or renewal of contracts for the renewal of measures, in particular for Switzerland, Liechtenstein, San Marino, Andorra and Monaco. These measures are aimed at preventing financial fraud and protecting the financial interests of the community as such. In particular, with regard to the transmission of information on interest received, i.e. the amount of interest on the deposits of our debtors who are obliged to report interest received in these countries. It is worth noting that in this declaration Slovenia is extremely reserved for the proposal for a Directive on a common consolidated base for corporate tax. Here I would like to point out that Slovenia believes, conditionally in this declaration, that the proposal, in particular for small, micro, medium-sized enterprises, is very demanding for implementation and has positive and negative effects at systemic level. I also support the declaration of the proposed amendment to the Directive on a common system of value added tax, as it seems to me that this proposed system or mechanism allows for a very rapid response in cases of fraud in the field of value added tax in the case of tax whirls, especially in tax havens. As a response to the financial crisis and also to the avoidance of indebtedness, I also believe that Slovenia urgently needs a consensus on the incorporation of the Golden Fiscal Rule into the Constitution, because I believe that this is the only guarantee for the self-restraint of the budgetary policy on a case-by-case basis. Finally, I am proud of the Presidency of Slovenia in the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2008. As the new Member State of the European Union, Slovenia has also played an excellent role at the head of the Presidency of the European Council with our Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. This has also increased Slovenia's reputation and visibility in the European environment. I welcome this declaration because it means more Europe in Slovenia and means in the current situation, when a programme and ideologically diverse new coalition is being consolidated, more Europe, including a defender before the past development and past political models of the exercise of power, and also before over-indebtedness, not least by the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia as supervisor and regulator of our system banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič has the floor, prepare for Mr Andrej Cuz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u105	Chairman, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, when we consider the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union, it should be stressed that European rules are extremely important for the operation and development of the State of Slovenia, which I see personally as a Member and as a citizen as an attachment to the European Union and not as a full member of this space. Why do I feel that way? Because we are always on the verge somehow, because we know that the European Union does not treat us equally, at least in practice it is as it should be. Why is that? Even because of our own incompetence, because, as Slovenia, we were not better able to stand up and present ourselves, because I am still asking myself today whether all these twenty-two years, twenty-two years, we were aware of our comparative advantages in relation to the partner Member States of the EU and the wider space. Each development must be based on comparative advantages, traditional values, traditional knowledge, traditional culture, which we did not know how to take advantage of in Slovenia, as expected and as did neighbouring Austria and as Switzerland, for example. I expose two countries which, by their geographical position, are slightly in a worse position than Slovenia, but we are not aware of this. One of the key comparative advantages is the sea we have, and we did not really know how to take advantage of it. Now that we are talking about Slovenia's involvement in the institutions of the European Union, we can find that everything is nice and right; that when we talk at some declaration level, we have no problems at all, we are happy to support such a declaration. But we always fail again in the operational field exam when it is actually necessary to show up and prepare. In Slovenia, unlike advanced European countries, we are lagging behind on the ground when projects need to be prepared when European regulations need to be implemented into Slovenian legislation. Here we are more popes than popes. In fact, our legislation is almost at the top of the demands that the European Union expects from us and it is logical that we cannot catch all the deadlines that we set ourselves and also some of the norms on time. I will not quote the document, but there are quite a few legal acts and laws that we have adopted in Slovenia, regulations where we have set maximum requirements and shortened the time limits that the European Union expects of us and demanded. I therefore expect that in the future we will not repeat all these mistakes, that we will be better able to stand up for our own interests. It is unacceptable that Slovenia, given its excellent geographical position, does not have a key position, does not have the position that would actually mean Slovenia's future development, but today we are shaking whether or not we are going to do what we are going to do. Clearly, we have missed all our natural comparative advantages. The Honourable Secretary for Agriculture – he has just arrived in the hall – for example, Slovenia exports raw materials, Slovenia exports cold, Slovenia behaves like an African country, but is located in the heart of Europe! With a shipping trip to the heart of Europe! We can't take advantage of all this! We can sign 20 more such declarations and we can commit to a lot of things, but nothing helps us if we don't really know how to adapt on the ground. People want to be offered cooperation; young people to become involved in development and to have a perspective; to offer them a real opportunity and to say that Slovenia deserves a better position in the European space. This can be done if we are aware of our comparative advantages. But apparently that is not the case, and it is a great pity that we do not know how to organize better in this country. I am very critical for a simple reason, because if we boast here and if we could now – I could count on quite a few good projects that we have carried out in Slovenia and that were really successful; but these projects were not enough. If we are not critical of ourselves, until our slowness and delay, then we will never catch and catch up with everything we have missed in the past. Since it is never too late to start anew and to start acting more properly for the better future of this country, it is necessary to focus properly and take into account all of this, taking into account all the benefits and even the disadvantages of globalisation I will never accept that globalisation is an obstacle to small countries. That's not true! As much as you're ready and capable, you can get into other areas. We've been offered everything. We just need to take it. We need to know how to get there. Others come to us, come and usurp us — not true! We leave them to ourselves and open the door for them, and we speak, come and do this and that, because we do not know it. Those who control their natural resources, who are aware of their national and national and natural wealth, are rich. Slovenia is a rich country and I stand firm behind this position, and I hope that we will now be able to behave better in the new financial perspective than we have been in the past five to seven years and that we will actually do much more and take advantage of all the opportunities offered by this globalisation and this European space that it has accepted us and we must take it that way. But nothing will be given to us, nothing will be given to us if we do not know how to fight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz has the word, Mr Roman Jakič is ready and Mr Jožef Jerovšek is ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u107	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. It seems to me that the text of the declaration is well prepared. The creation of that declaration also took into account the European Commission's legislative and work programme for 2013. While the declaration itself contains seven priority areas for Slovenia's operations in the European Union, I would like to stress in particular the efforts to get out of the crisis, the active contribution to the debate on reform of the European Union and the desire to achieve economic growth and create new jobs. Previously, there has been a speech that it is young people who bear the greatest burden of this crisis and I must agree. I am pleased that several calls from the professional public have also been made by Brussels, including European policy, since a few days ago it has come to the public to adopt or adopt a scheme or guarantees for young people, through which the European Union will spend as much as €6 billion over the next seven years to combat youth unemployment. In doing so, I would also like to commend the efforts of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which has used over 20 million European funds over the past few months through the First Challenge project and has enabled the first employment of over 3,000 young diplomats and diplomats. At the same time, I would also like to commend the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which negotiated for funds in the next financial perspective, as Slovenia can be satisfied with the purchaser of these negotiations. Our main objective before the start of the negotiations was to maintain the position of a net recipient of funds from Brussels. Compared to the European Union average, although Slovenia has made progress over the last seven years despite the crisis, which has made our negotiating situation rather poor. Nevertheless, Slovenia will remain a net beneficiary of the European budget by 2020. Moreover, our net financial position will be significantly better. If our net position in the current financial perspective was about 0,87 Slovenian gross national income, we will be entitled to even a good percentage of gross national income in the period 2014 to 2020. While Slovenia will benefit from €2.9 billion in cohesion and common agricultural policy during the period 2014-2020. In doing so, we need to know that only in the last two and a half months have we managed to provide almost half a billion euro of additional resources. Similarly, the rural situation, where by 2020 we will be eligible for a good EUR 744 million, has managed to deliver a special €150 million allowance to our government in recent weeks or months. Now, of course, it is up to us to cash in this success and this means as well. We still have a lot of resources from the current financial perspective, as Slovenia has managed to exhaust only 44% of all available funds by now. Last year more than €500 million were returned from the budget of the European Union to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Over the past year, the government has strongly accelerated the pumping and has achieved more than 100 % increase in the European Union budget. These increased from €22 million per month to €46. I hope that the future government, which consists of, although in the light of programme differences, I doubt what this will look like, will be able to continue the good practice established by this government by Janez Janša this year, and I would also like to commend the government for its visits to the Slovenian regions. I come from the lower Podravje myself, and as a resident of the lower Podravje, I would like to thank the policy that it has listened to the problems of our environment. There has been a lot of talk that we need to work for more of the European Union, so we need to take care of the example of politics as any other citizen of our country. I recommend to the incoming government that its focus remain on the ground in Slovenia, especially in the less developed regions, and in Brussels. We must all work for more of the European Union, not Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much again. The guidelines drawn up by the Government for the work of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union here have been quite uniformly supported, as has been the case with the committees, and there have been virtually no comments. That makes sense to me. The current government has been extremely successful in this good year when it worked. In addition to preparing all the key reforms with which a greater desire can be made, it has significantly increased credibility to enter the future in Europe if this is the new government and which has been extremely facilitated by the current government and by the new ministers on their way to Brussels. The headlines are now designed to enable Slovenia or the future government to be even more successful, as the financial perspective for the next five years is favourable, but it will be necessary to adapt and learn how these funds are being used to avoid these ineffective practices from the period of the previous Left Government, because living on laurics in such a situation as the State is now unacceptable. We do have a successful government, but the laurels, whoever rules, cannot rule. I'm afraid that maybe he will not like you or that knowledge of the future government. In fact, we now have the wrong perception of Parliament's policy and functioning in public on the left, and it is being promoted as much as possible: there is no controversy and no parliaments. In this regard, I would instruct all Members and all journalists involved in daily political practice to go see the Spielberg movie Lincoln. I saw it last night. It happens in Congress during the Civil War of 1865, when an amendment to the American Constitution on the abolition of slavery was adopted. Look at the way the Slovenians are trained, everyone is convinced that in America they were democrats for the abolition of slavery and Republicans against. But it was the other way around! The Republicans were for the abolition of slavery and the Democrats were for the abolition of slavery. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] Watch the movie, I did it last night. And this wrong perception of Kasna's struggle was in Congress, what a struggle! You've got to see this! And politics is the struggle for interests and the struggle for the country. I'm afraid that this new coalition of wills will not have this knowledge, and we'll be three years behind again, and then we'll start saving this country in three years. For I fear that the basic direction of the future coalition will be how to avenge the success of the current government, the current coalition. Of course, this is completely wrong, and I am warning you in advance because I have already experienced a lot in this House. This vendetta left, along with the media space, is amazing. But I may have detected a change in attitude. Just before me came a colleague, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, and interestingly, he performed with completely different views than he did this year. He said that each development must be based on traditional values. I don't remember any of the people sitting here taking up traditional values so far. Nobody! That was not all; Gaspar Gaspar said that it must be based on traditional values. I have to admit, they were actually gone. You were closer to the Balkan values. Now I don't know, but Mr. Mišič was somewhere between the Balkans and Antarctica, the more he directed down. If this is some solid change of attitude that you are finally also advocating for some traditional values, I welcome this, that is all you should see. Last time, the prime minister's candidate didn't have a program, but having a program when you're running for Prime Minister is also a traditional value. This traditional value has already been left behind. It has also been noted elsewhere that these values have not yet developed and that it will be very difficult in the next term. We will see from the personal list of ministers how much we can trust in these values. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we are being watched in Europe. If all the capital that this government has raised through the adoption of all the reforms; by removing obstacles — not at the expense of Slovenia — in relation to the ratification of the Treaty with Croatia; by accepting unpopular reforms, by working for the country and destroying itself if you can easily spend it in the institutions of the European Union, then the citizens of this country are not well. I urge you to really take into your hands what this declaration says, and that this is a law, guidance, more declaration; this must be the commitment that citizens of this country expect and only on the basis of such a commitment can with a upside-down head with all the problems that will nevertheless stand within the European Union and act at home, at home, and give up the daily political effects and the daily political propaganda that your left-hand side is marked by the fact that everything is subordinate to propaganda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I'm asking the government representatives if anyone else would like to explain any additions. Anybody? I'll take my turn. Mr Branko Ravnik, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Very briefly, because several issues have also been raised on the subject of agriculture. I must say that the positions in this document are based entirely on the resolution on the strategic directions for the development of Slovenian agriculture and food, and in fact the policy we are currently working on for the next programming period is fully coordinated and our position, which we are advocating in Brussels, is adapted to this. However, the measures that will follow from the programming documents to be financed from European funds are also targeted. I think there's a whole lot of fear about that. However, there was another information on the level of self-sustainment. Once again, I would like to say that at the general level, self-sustainment does not count, but is counted by individual products. Generally due to natural circumstances, the rate of self-sustainment is higher where natural duties are good. This means mainly livestock production of ruminants, is real milk, meat, and worse where we have poor conditions, these are field areas, being real wheat, vegetables. The measures to be implemented during the transitional period, as we have now set out in the documents, will primarily aim to accelerate or intensify the promotion of food self-sustainment where food is low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Dr. God Cerar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Dearly beloved, sentence two on enlargement and on external relations. I have heard that quite a few debaters have stressed the importance of the enlargement of the European Union into future or concrete enlargement to the Western Balkans. There was also some concern about this — we often hear of expansionary fatigue in our daily lives. It was said that it would be good to hear a little more ambitious dates for future enlargements. I must say that at the foreign ministry we are still aware of the importance of the enlargement of the European Union; the importance of enlargement to the Western Balkans or stability, for the prosperity of this part of Europe and, if you will, to ourselves. Believe me, Slovenia is always, here I do not exaggerate, in the first kinds of efforts to keep this issue on the agenda. We're not alone. We are trying to get as many allies as possible, because in fact it is true when the Union is dealing with its internal problems, somehow the will, the energy is running out to expand, say, to our end of Europe. I would like to stress this. Slovenia is not only loud when this issue needs to be kept up to date. I must say that we are extremely active - not only for the foreign ministry, but also for individual departments - in concrete assistance to the countries of the former common country and I think that this assistance is appreciated that it is effective. It is also true that at times a person may feel that he or she somehow does not allow us to help them. In short, do not do their job or do their own. We must be aware that it is easier to argue for enlargement if you have a suitably prepared candidate there who is implementing reforms that are approaching the rules of the game or the acquis of the European Union. I would like to emphasise something else in our efforts to expand into the Balkans. This is also highlighted in the declaration itself. Indeed, we still think that it is important for all the future members of the Western Balkans to realize that regional cooperation on the way to this membership is extremely important, that good neighbourly action is extremely important and, ultimately, compliance with international obligations, not least the successful agreement already mentioned today. The Succession Agreement is a legal act which I think is one basis on which relations in the Western Balkans can or must be built in the future, even in the context of joining the European Union. Palestine, Syria, the Middle East were mentioned. Here I must say that there are issues where the European Union, an individual Member State, too we, could do more. The fact is that the European Union should be a little more active here, decisive and, above all, more united. Believe me, somehow we are working our best to achieve this unity. But as long as this unity remains uninhabited by all, then the European Union will not be one, I would say, an influential, credible actor in the international community, or as Mr Horvat said, it will probably be difficult to talk about a real common foreign policy. In the end, I'd kind of touch another thing that somehow got into my memory when I listened to you. It was a matter of stressing the importance of this relationship between a citizen-institution of the European Union or the idea of the European Union itself. I think it's very important. I think we must do more in the future to prevent this alienation, that people are actually more involved, even in the preparation of such documents that we are discussing today. It seems to me that this is one of the best investments in this project of strengthening the European Union or strengthening the internal unity or internal strength of the European Union. I see they brought me a few more papers maybe a word, two things about things that aren't strictly related to my department or the foreign ministry. [[...]] The issue of the budget of the European Union, the drawing of funds, was raised. Specifically, Mr Bevk asked how many projects have already been prepared. I can only note with satisfaction that virtually all the parliamentary groups have welcomed the Government's success in the negotiations on a multi-annual financial framework for the next six, seven years. The task was indeed not easy, but, as you yourself have found, we were able to negotiate quite a bargain. We agree that it is now necessary to focus on the future or specifically on the successful use of these funds. Preparations for pumping are under way, both as regards the relevant implementing documents and the preparation of concrete projects. At present, we have already confirmed several projects totalling €ninety-seven million, where we will start implementation already in 2014. As already mentioned by the President of the Government, we have already greatly accelerated the use of European funds in the past year. I believe that we will succeed or hope to succeed in this trend in the coming years. The role of Slovenia and its positions on the deepened monetary union; as already stated by the President of the Government, the European Union has responded effectively to the financial and debt crisis. Slovenia participates in and participates in negotiations on an in-depth economic and monetary union, and in this regard Slovenia particularly supports the early agreement on effective joint supervision of banks to be carried out by the European Central Bank. It is also seeking an early agreement on the issue of direct recapitalisation of banks under the European Stability Mechanism. We now expect to submit proposals on a common austerity mechanism as soon as possible, which the European Commission is expected to do earlier this summer. On all of these, our representatives are clearly, regularly advertised in the debates of the Council of the European Union. There are currently works under way in four key elements of the European Monetary Union, namely the social dimension, the prior coordination of structural reforms between Member States. Slovenia supports greater emphasis on the social dimension, which must be reflected in concrete measures such as helping unemployed young people, for example. In this context, we are pleased with the agreement on assistance to unemployed young people, which will be allocated €6 billion. We also support the prior coordination of important structural reforms between Member States. The team must be placed in the existing procedures of the European Semester. We also expect the submission of a Commission proposal on contractual arrangements that have been in the European Commission, the end of this month, which we associate with certain financial incentives in the event that a Member State meets the structural reforms set out. Just checking to see if I have any more. Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I give my word to Minister Gigi Turk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. This debate should primarily be about what policies Slovenia will advocate in Brussels or within the European Union, and not so much about how we fulfil the domestic tasks we receive from Brussels or what we are doing with regard to policies that are European in Slovenia. In this respect, I see two relations in Slovenia; one attitude towards Brussels is somehow the attitude of the student who fulfils these homework, who looks up at Brussels, the other relationship is the equal relationship between one of the 27 members and the country which takes the European Union for his own and who also has all the right to co-operate with its policies. It is so that, in that part of the policy that was in power when we joined, this first part is more present than looking at Brussels up, and the behaviour as a student fulfilling our homework, while the policy that took part in the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2008 sees this quite differently. I think that this second relationship is correct and that this policy, which was mainly part of membership, should be rid of this relationship, that we are still in some way part of it or that we should be particularly good at the homework we receive from Brussels. With regard to these European policies, I believe that in the past – and also this document goes in this direction – we have taken on things that are useful to Slovenia, which are useful in my field of Slovenian culture, education, science, sport and so on. We have supported the European cultural budget in the past, we have supported the largest possible European budget for science as well, for research and development, because there are known data that Slovenia, even when European funds are to be used directly in Brussels, in competition with other Member States, with other organisations to fight for the means that our researchers and our culturers are above average, and that they fit us to have as much money as possible. We are and will continue to fight that the process of such policies will be as friendly as possible to small and medium-sized countries, small and medium-sized institutions, small and medium-sized universities, small and medium-sized institutions, because we have such in Slovenia. In the past, we have had quite a few actions that have also gone in the direction of making these mechanisms friendly to new members who are poorer, who do not have large institutes, and to point out that Europe must also fight brain escape or that European policies cannot encourage brain drain from less developed poor members to become richer. I think that, at least in the Competitiveness Council, Slovenia has a very good name, a good status, in some way led a group of 10, 11 members who have established a critical mass of opposition to the old members who have stressed in this area mainly and only excellence, and read: as we in Western Europe know best and we must also have mechanisms such as to make as much money as possible. This integration, which some Members have talked about, between science, culture, creative industries and so on, was one of the things that we brought to European policy during our 2008 Presidency. We have also very much supported the creation of similar mechanisms in the field of culture and in the field of creative industries, such as research, development and science. In the field of film, we also support those countries that say that the film industry is not a purely ordinary industry, that it cannot be treated competitively in the same way as someone who makes chocolate, but that it is a matter of cultural goods that are not mutually competitive and, of course, the aid of the country, the intervention of the country in the film market is permissible. We had such a very good conversation, for example, with a French colleague on this subject, and we agreed that we would be here to support this topic. In the digital agenda, I also think that we are, and this document also shows that we will be among the countries that represent more advanced, more modern policies. In the past, we have also advocated the need to establish a Digital Single Market in order, for example, to establish a "rooming", for example, according to data service roaming prices, in order to contribute more to the development of European industries than to voice services and so on. In short, what seems important to me, which, in my opinion, is also important to the government that comes, if it comes, to act in the tradition of someone who has already presided over the European Union, someone who is an equal member and that this relationship, that we have to carry out some homework to look at Brussels excessively up, even – if I say so – the left half of our policy and diplomacy gets rid of.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Tone Kaiser, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I must be pleased to note that all the parliamentary groups – I am talking about a debate that has also been devoted to the agreement reached today with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia on the resolution of the issue of the Ljubljana Bank or of these so-called delegated applications – have found that all the parliamentary groups have supported this. However, I think Mr Meh has expressed some fear or a certain scepticism about this agreement reached. Once again, although the agreement has now been officially published, today the level of confidentiality has been withdrawn that Slovenia has reached a key interest, which is what the State Secretary Dr Cerar has already mentioned in part, that the solution to this issue is returned to the framework of the succession agreement. The issues of succession are resolved against the mechanism set out in Annex C, that is, the Basel Bank for International Settlements, and the judicial procedures referred to by Mr Meh will be settled in Croatia or will not be able to continue the new judicial proceedings until this preliminary question is resolved. In short, there is no need here for any scepticism or fear. Slovenian interests are fully covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Brezigar, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to give a brief explanation of the debate by Mrs Potrat on the sidelines of the statements in the declaration that Slovenia supports the establishment of a common European asylum system. On the side of this, the Member State has made a statement on the reduction of standards in the procedure following the amendment of the Law on International Protection. In this regard, the Ministry explains that it is not a matter of reducing standards, there has been a change in free legal aid at the first stage, but applicants have the possibility of legal advice and information at the first stage by non-governmental organisations, co-financed by both European funds and the budget. Thus, the claim that standards would be reduced – and if I understood correctly, perhaps for some contradiction to the declaration’s entry – does not hold, these standards remain at a level that actually allows applicants all the legal assistance they need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mrs Patricia Chular, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all present from my side! Perhaps I would just answer — not doubts — but concerns about the three issues I have experienced by the discussers in today’s debate. Otherwise, we are discussing a document on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic from January 2013 to June 2014, and I do not know how actively I will be able to participate in this period in these areas, but I would like to show that concern about the three areas that have been exposed has certainly been addressed in particular on our part. At first, we heard quite a few words about the situation of young people. We are all aware of the high level of unemployment and certainly there is none among us who would treat youth unemployment lightly. In our one-year mandate, we have prepared a special measure for this target group. So far, no target group has had a separate action within the active employment policy, but a separate measure is now available to promote youth employment and facilitate the transition of young people from education to the labour market. That is why I would like to see this target group pay special attention in the coming period, because, although it is possible already, I can say a little bit of a nuisance, but young people are our future and deserve special attention. That is why we have also supported the Youth Guarantees in the debates of the world. We believe that they need to be defined in more detail and that Slovenia should also be included as a member eligible for the use of Youth Guarantees. Then we had doubts about the advocate of the principle of equality and its placement. This is what we have been doing or have been working with governments for some time now. The procedure also includes a legislative proposal proposing the placement and resolution of the position of advocate of the principle of equality. In the past year, we have also raised our position on committees and other bodies on the proposal for a directive on European legislation to increase women's representation in leadership positions or in companies in non-executive decision-making positions. Slovenia is this proposal, although some of you have had concerns, supported or favoured this proposal, and again I can only submit such a position to the proposal and hope that the country will represent it externally. I would, however, like to point out another matter for my own future period or within this declaration and express my concern or at least my expectation that special attention will be given to it. And this is a fund to help those at risk. We believe that our country has good practice in this area and that it needs to be vigilant in drawing up rules for the use of funds within the Fund to help those at risk, because the social pressures of people are great and we need to make use of all the resources available within the cohesion funds to improve the situation of each individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I find that all of you have been given a word by all of you, all of you, who, of course, wanted it. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. That's why I'm opening the application. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, five minutes. He's quitting. Mag. Majda Potrat, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have not replicated to Mrs State Secretary, but I would like to explain that lowering standards is one of the fundamental issues that we do not find a common language because I came from a position of protection of rights in the law in force, but we have changed the law and not only in my opinion, but also in the opinion of the Law and Law Service, NGOs have fallen. However, it is up to each state to decide, in accordance with its own policy, that when the level of protection of human rights in a country is higher than the minimum prescribed by the European Union, it is up to it to decide how it will act. I regret that when we have a higher level of protection of rights, we decide on common lower standards. I am aware, however, that migration policy is a demanding policy of the European Union, and Slovenia will also have to take into account that the structure of migrants is changing considerably, that more and more highly educated migrants enter the European space and that it will also have to be more open and otherwise prepared for their arrival. Of course, we have the most problems with those who do not belong to this category of highly educated people. I would like to point out just one more thing; because I have heard some expressions of great satisfaction with the success of Slovenia at the time we presided over the Council of Europe, I would sometimes like to hear a comparative figure on the cost of the Presidency when Slovenia presided, and the cost of any other country presiding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. At this point, of course, you can't get this information. I give the floor to Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much. To conclude, I would just like to give a brief warning on this document that we have discussed today, and last but not least on the Committee on Education, Culture and so on, where it is clearly stated that one of the priorities and one of the important issues is also the so-called cultural diplomacy. At the same time, I would point out that the issue of cultural diplomacy would not remain only on paper or the same as it has happened many times this year, as we would say that we promise to learn more next year. We concluded this every year at the end of the school year. So cultural diplomacy as one of the priorities – I understand that something is being done in this regard. In the meantime, I am very surprised that when we put this matter among the priorities, on the other hand, we stop SKICO. Once again, with March 1st, the sketch is gone – in Vienna, of course. Although, as far as I know, the funds were even provided. It has been said that everything is now going to Berlin, I believe, because we have already in Vienna or Austria so many cultural institutions associated with our country. I do not fully understand this logic that cultural diplomacy is one of the priorities of our country, and on the other, we are putting an end to one very successful project and one of the few projects that is essentially inter-ministerial, which is a project of three ministries and which has been terminated solely on the basis of the desire of one ministry, while two ministries have resisted. I don't fully understand this discretion between the written document and the actual work. I hope something like this doesn't happen in the other chapters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal for a declaration. The assembly will decide on the proposal for a declaration in accordance with the timing of the meeting within half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the 11th meeting of the Assembly, which we will continue by the vote at 17.05, which is in half an hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-07-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u127	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. First of all, colleagues and colleagues, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. If there's a problem, I'd like to ask you for a timely warning. We continue with the adjourned 4th item of the agenda by the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act. Since no amendments have been tabled to the bill, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the second reading of the working body and at the meeting of the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent, so we are voting. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 3. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153(2) of the Rules of Procedure, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Animal Protection Act. We will also vote on this. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 10. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration of Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period from January 2013 to June 2014. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal for a declaration, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. Here, too, the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the competent committees would make the proposal for a declaration inconsistent. May I have your attention, please? I'm opening a vote. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections in the National Assembly is appropriate for further consideration. In doing so, I inform you that in accordance with Article 80(4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of all Members, 60 or more, is necessary for the adoption of the draft decision. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 7. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The draft law will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Members. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Members is appropriate for further consideration. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 30. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 30.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The draft law will be allocated for consideration to the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council is suitable for further consideration. In doing so, I inform you, as in the first case, that in accordance with Article 98(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members are required for the adoption of the proposal, i.e. 60 or more. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 29. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Since the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision, the legislative procedure on the draft law has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 84 Members present and 52 votes against 29 Members. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The draft law will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Local Elections Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 84 members and 49 votes against 31 members. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. The draft law will be allocated for consideration to the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 83 members, 54 in favour and 27 in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposed decision is adopted by the assembly. The bill will be allocated to the home working body, namely the Committee on Justice, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On behalf of the President of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Swiss Federal Council on the prevention of double taxation in respect of income and property taxes, signed in the People's Republic of Switzerland on a proposal for the ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Swiss Federal Council on the prevention of double taxation in connection with income and property taxes. JUNE 1996. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 86 Members were present, and no one voted against them in favour of all 86. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT RATIFICATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION 25. AND 26. Member of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes, adopted on 28. NOVEMBER 2003 IN GENEVA. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 86 votes against none. [[The vote was 86.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 18th item of the agenda, which is to deal with the Mandate-Voluntary matters. I note that no cases have been submitted until the beginning of this point, and we conclude this item on the agenda. We also conclude the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
