ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am just informed that the Mandate-Electorial Commission has also completed its work and we can expect them to join us in the Chamber, so I propose that we start with the 16th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Kristina Valenčič, Mr Branko Smodiš, Mr Bojan Starman, whom I see in our midst, so that this does not apply, and Mr Jožef Jerovšek is also present here. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of the 2013 budget proposal for the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was tabled by the Government. In order to present the proposal for the 2013 budget rebalancing, I give the floor first to the President of the Government of Mags. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen! There's a budget rebalancing ahead of you this year. There was an urgent need to prepare this. Why? There are at least two reasons for that. The main thing is that the plan of the previous government was completely but really completely unrealistic. The other is that, unfortunately, there are even worse economic conditions in our country. In the 2013 budget adopted, revenue was projected at EUR 8.6 billion. The updated revenue estimates show that for a few more than €600 million it would be less than originally planned. On the expenditure side, the total amount of expenditure remains approximately the same, which is €9.6 billion. I will leave a more precise explanation of the state budget's balance sheet to the Minister for Finance, but I would like to touch in particular some of the points in this balance sheet as well as the measures involved in this balance. I have said many times that unfortunately we were unable to choose from good solutions. All the solutions we were dealing with were less good. And according to our assessment, we have chosen a set of measures that are least bad for both our people and our economy. When I listen to the insights on the subject of rebalancing, I can hear from saving too much, to not saving too much. The real truth is that, despite the fact that expenditure remains at the level of the budget adopted, much effort and effort has been put into measures on the expenditure side. We had to find 140 million euros for pensions, because you simply forgot about it, dear colleagues. And if we do not provide this with a balance sheet, the pension should be reduced by 6% from 1.7. I don't know what your pension plan was. Maybe you had this reduction in mind as well. We had to find 122 million euros for interest, which is almost 20% more than you planned. You're making a big mistake by 20% – don't you think? To make the budget deficit look lower, you planned so much less. We also pay for the handball measures that you have taken despite the warnings given. Of course, it is a regression of public servants and pensions that you have taken from us in a non-constitutional manner. All of this increases our spending today and increases our deficits, unfortunately. I would be much more pleased if I were to stand before you today with a budget that would show surplus or at least EUR 2 billion for investment. Unfortunately, this is not possible in today's situation, and I believe that we are well aware of that for all of us who are here today. It is necessary to reduce spending even more, to be even more radical in saving, are the words that I have heard here among you several times in the last few days. I didn't hear any suggestions, where and for how long. Everyone who talks about radical savings is targeting employees in the public sector. It is fair to say that employees have worn and bear a large part of the burden of consolidation of public finances for several years in a row. But you need to know something, dear colleagues and colleagues, when you talk about reducing the public sector, you are primarily talking about education and health. These are the two biggest segments within the public sector. There's absolutely no need for rationalisation, and we're doing it. By no means can we, at least we think, reduce the number of employees in the public sector, education, health care, the police by 20% or 30%. It's been over 100 days since I've run this government. I think it was a huge deal. I've listed many times in the last few days what we've done in this very short time. I have heard many times about my work, our government in these last days that we are continuing the work and projects of the previous government. If that were true, I don't know why so many critics on this side. In this balance, despite the fact that expenditure is very limited, we have also taken care of measures to help the economy. The measures to be taken by the economy will increase by more than €700 million. Indeed, it is not a matter of grants to the economy, but we have provided funds for the recovery of forms of aid and our aim is to provide continued and effective support at all stages, from fundamental applied research and development and from the commercialisation of new solutions, products and services, and thus to achieve strategic development objectives. This is an increase in the competitiveness of the economy, faster creation and growth of innovative companies and an increase in the innovative capacity of businesses. However, many times I have said that we will do the most for our economy when the banks start to service our economy again, so we have devoted the most time in these 100 days to the rehabilitation of the banking system. I have also said many times that Slovenia does not always have time to start over again. The project, which was necessary and was set up, we continued because there was simply no other way. The biggest critic is that I, as an opposition Member, opposed this solution. Those of you who repeat this over and over again, add that I have opposed this in Positive Slovenia for one very reason. It's that we didn't know and you didn't know if this solution would really be the cheapest thing for our people – and even more, you didn't even know how much it would cost. That was the only reason I objected as a Member. But I can say that we have actually made it impossible, and they also admit that to us in Brussels. When we took over the government, there was virtually nothing operational in this area. Today, the management company, we call it a bad bank, is already ready to transfer bad claims. The only problem we have to avoid is that Europe does not believe our Slovenian assessments of the situation in our banks. These evaluations are not made by the Government but by Banka Slovenije. For a large, large majority of the transfer of bad claims, we need the consent of the European Commission, so it will take about a week more for these transfers to take place – a week more than we originally predicted and planned. The Minister of Finance said yesterday, time is money and time is a loss of growth, so we've put all our forces into it. I agree, however, that it is probably better for some week later than for us to repeat the exercise in January. This would be the most challenging Slovenian credibility in the financial markets. The rehabilitation of banks, together with the recapitalisation, must be carried out once and for all. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the 2013 state budget rebalancing ahead of you. According to my assessment and ours, the best was done in this short time. If former Prime Minister Janez Janša did not hold so tightly and firmly that he has not done anything in the last three months, the budgetary deficit in this balance could be significantly lower. Wage measures would apply throughout the year. This would mean less than €60 million. The value added tax would bring us 150 million euros more. If the regression were not to be returned to public servants, the expenditure would be even lower by EUR 50 million. In total, this means €260 million or 0.7% of GDP. Instead of 4,4 % of gross domestic product, the budget deficit would be 3,7 % of GDP. Our structural effort would be even higher than Brussels expects us to. But time can't be turned back. We started on March 21st, and since then, we've worked very hard to see the document before you today as it is. I will be pleased to see every constructive proposal for new measures. Unfortunately, I only listen to two: he doesn't raise taxes and he doesn't interfere with justice. Without one or the other or without a combination of both, what we do, unfortunately, will not work. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not ours or your Slovenia – there is only one, a common Slovenia. There are no yours and our actions – they are only actions that lead Slovenia on the right path. For the sake of the young, for the future, we must find agreements. But I am still firmly convinced that we will solve our problems on our own, without foreign demands and without foreign assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to present the proposal for the 2013 budget rebalancing, I ask if he would like to further present the balance sheet with the Minister of Finance, Dr. Uroš Cufer? Here you go, Dr. Urosh Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Maybe just a few words about this rebalancing that we have in our adoption today. I would like to mention that we have already set ourselves the key economic policy objectives for this year and for the following years under the National Reform Programme stability programme this year. The specific objectives covered by these two documents are from three areas: consolidation of public finances, resolution of the banking system and extension of businesses, improvement of corporate governance, and gradual and deliberate withdrawal of the country from the economy. The proposal for a rebalancing in front of you today is prepared in accordance with these objectives. In fact, the planned measures are a good basis for building on them in the future, and in fact we are also preparing additional measures for 2014 and beyond. In addition to the consolidation of public finances, measures are also in place to rehabilitate the banking system as well as measures to relaunch economic growth. The balance had to be drawn up for two main reasons. Firstly, the existing budget is based on macroeconomic indicators for 2013, which have proved to be significantly less favourable than envisaged during the planning period. Secondly, that certain elements of the adopted budget are not what they would have wanted to be planned, at least as they are now falling out, unrealistically, on the other hand, that the individual measures that should support these assumptions were not prepared, in fact, we can only prepare them now with a great delay and therefore with the budget outage. In this stability programme announced by the Government that we will prepare measures in a way that will affect about two-thirds of the expenditure side reduction measures, one third of the measures to reduce the expenditure side will actually be this balance ahead of you. The deficit is also 1.5 billion, says as much as was done in the stability programme. I wouldn't go over the individual items because you've all had the opportunity to get them and you've studied them. However, I would like to tell you and recommend that this balance today or tomorrow, as the debate will be, we accept that we can go further and prepare the additional measures necessary to stabilise and normalise Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy was also regarded as a parent labour force by the Rebalancing Committee. For the presentation of the Committee's reports, I give the floor to President Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to you all. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 62nd emergency meeting. Seven. 2013 as the parent working body considered the proposal for the 2013 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was provided with opinions from the following interested working bodies: the Commission on National Communities, the Commission on Public Finance Control, the Commission on Relations with Slovenians around the world and the Commission on the Monitoring of Information and Security Services and the Committees on Agriculture, Defence, Health, Culture, Foreign Policy, Home Affairs, Infrastructure, the Economy, for the Work of the Family and for Education. These interested working bodies took note of the proposal for a rebalancing and did not formulate and adopt their amendments. The Committee also received the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a rebalancing, and was also informed of the letters of interest from the public concerned. During the business term, qualified candidates, Members of the New Slovenia and SDS submitted 11 amendments to the proposed balance. In the introduction to the tabled balance, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance said that the government had already set key economic policy objectives in 2013 and beyond under the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. Specific measures concern three areas: consolidation of public finances, resolution of the banking system and extension of businesses, improvement of corporate governance and a deliberate gradual withdrawal from the economy. The proposal for the 2013 national budget rebalancing follows these objectives. At the same time, she mentioned that the budget already adopted was based on macroeconomic indicators which provided for significantly better macroeconomic conditions for 2013 than they actually are, and that certain revenues and expenditure were unrealisticly planned in the adopted budget. Under the Stability Programme, the government has forecast a budget deficit of EUR 1 billion and a half for 2013 which means approximately 500 million more deficits than planned by the budget adopted. The proposal for a rebalancing follows the same target deficit, followed by a detailed presentation by the Secretary of State A, B and C of the balance sheet and the planned revenue and expenditure. It also gave its opinion by the representative of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, who briefly presented the overall economic picture for 2013 and said that exports had only slightly increased and other indicators were worse than expected. In the debate on the rebalancing, members of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups felt that the proposal for a rebalancing did not follow the three goals set by the government, while pointing in particular to an increase in the deficit of about half a billion. This has a very negative impact on investment and on the economic environment, which is deteriorating. On the one hand, taxes are increasing and have a negative impact on the economic environment, and on the other hand, it is not enough to reduce budget expenditure more. They considered that there were no steps in the right direction with regard to privatisation, as no new classification and investment strategy had been adopted and pointed out that there were no funds foreseen in the rebalancing. They also highlighted the need for more measures to make European funds more effective. In the discussion on the budget submitted, the members of the coalition parliamentary committee said that the proposal for a rebalancing was realistic and appropriate in view of the economic situation, although, given the situation, it could not meet all the financial needs. They said that there would be more tax revenues and that the objective of ensuring the stability of public finances was to be pursued. They also highlighted a restrictive wage policy in the public sector and also in certain transfers. Finally, the Secretary of State replied to some questions and said that both sides of the budget should be affected in order to consolidate public finances and that the proposal for a rebalancing was a step in this direction. The Committee identified and did not support the amendments tabled by qualified applicants. He supported the two amendments to the Committee at the Ministry of Economic Development and accepted them. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy supports the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is also proposed to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will be the first to present the views of the parliamentary groups, which will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u8	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government and Minister, Dear Fellows and Fellows! So the balance of the budget that lies ahead is actually a correction of the budget that was adopted in the autumn of the previous year. It has been accepted since the early autumn and is based on data on which each budget and also your balance are based. This is on the latest forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and not some speculation of anyone in the government. The forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in autumn last year were significantly different, as today's reality shows, and therefore certain items, particularly when we are talking about revenue in the budget, have been otherwise planned, as shown today. These are objective circumstances, and I'm sorry that you're happy to turn the blame over and over again on your predecessors for being in a situation like this. I think that, Prime Minister-respected, you can also look at certain coalition partners that destabilized the previous government and eventually demolished it, and the result was a dead race. It is said that the dead race was not caused by the previous government, but you have already caused the dead by those who destroyed the previous government, which lasted a few months and the consequences are here today. Therefore, it is at least that you attribute such responsibility to yourself and blame yourself for the circumstances that have arisen. Let's see when you like to go back to the history of what the previous government did to the legacy, which it also received at the beginning of 2012. We have reduced the budget deficit by one billion euros. That was done last year. Certain structural changes were also adopted last year. You're talking about getting out of the pension register. Retirement is not a result of pension reform as such, as 40% of the fewer people have retired under the newly introduced law between January and May and January – last year, it is said that retirement has substantially stopped. It is true, however, that at the end of last year, the expected reform brought many people to rest because they did not know what was being done with the new solution. And it is true that pension reform is also due to some uncertainty of the population and those pensioners who could have retired under the old conditions, and this is an experience with every pension reform and also this previous government could not have known when it was planning the budget early in the autumn of last year. Let's see how you've gone about correcting this budget balance. With lower revenues to the state budget, let's see which are lower. It is not true that the lower income from the objective title is half a billion euros, but the lower revenue is only from a tax source of around 250 million euros, and the other 250 million euros are due to lower ambition after European funds have been drawn and 257 million euros are planned to reduce the European budget's revenue, which means that you will slow down the dynamics of European spending. This is bad, because these funds are linked to investments that have a multiplier effect on public finances in the country, promote economic activity, encourage more tax inflows and generate jobs, which consequently generate better conditions in the country. So you are rebalancing 500 million less revenue, 250 from objective tax sources and 250 from reducing European spending. That's the truth, Your Honor. And one more thing, you are planning this slow pace in drawing on European funds in the last year of the financial perspective. When we have to do everything we can to speed up the use of European funds, you are consciously going to a lower dynamic. Please do not excuse yourself that there are no projects, that they are not ready or that this absorption is impossible. That's not true! If you set such an unambitious goal in the middle of this year, it will also be objectively low pumping. But if you do everything, activate the ministries and all those responsible for the pumping, you will draw on these funds. And there's also a nasty message from this rebalancing that you're clearly giving up the work of European funds, which is bad. When we talk about the expenditure side of the budget, the matter is much more critical than on the revenue side. You are maintaining the level of current expenditure and current transfers, regardless of the fact that you are significantly losing revenue in the state budget. All due respect, this is similar to the fact that an economic company that has dropped its orders and no longer has that much revenue from the sale or the business it is carrying out has maintained its costs and thus caused a loss or a loss. Such an undertaking, if it takes some time, will sooner or later enter insolvency proceedings. And such an approach in Slovenia has been going on for several years. What is this message, therefore, that the State is not capable of directing the expenditure sides of the budget to a reduction in revenue? Facts show that the figures show that you even increase the salary weight to increase current expenditure. The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia noted that in April of this year, for the first time since the long months of decline in the number of civil servants, you have again raised the number of public servants. This is because you have probably filled your cabinets and made other promises to your loyal supporters and hired them in the public sector, and it should cost as much as it wants. These are bad, wrong trends, respectable. I can only say that the portfolio I left reduced the number of public employees or employees by 15%, from 230 personnel plans we came to 199, which was also real, with all the measures available this year. And I would be very happy to keep this principle going, with such sad numbers as this budget or, in particular, the revenue side of the budget. Let's look ahead, look at investment expenditure and transfers. You are reducing them by about €250 million according to the 2013 budget plan. I think it is bad that, at a time when the economy is walking, when we are facing an increasing level of unemployment, when new jobs are not available, especially for young people, they are reducing such drastic investments and, in particular, investments related to European funds. This further stifles economic activity and leads us further into the spiral of an increasing deficit, because the revenues from the walking economy will also be lower and more unemployed. If we add to this the tax increases you have already made and you intend to make – a raise in value added tax, a change in the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, by which you stop the further decline in the amount of income tax. And if we add the projected property tax, which will also put a considerable burden on economic operators, if we add a further change or increase of cadastral income, which also affects an important part of the economic operators involved in agriculture, then it is clear that this sum has an extremely negative impact on economic activity and economic growth. Anyone who has not recognized the economy, who has only met half of the first a-a, knows that such measures cannot expect more tax inflows despite increasing tax rates. Taxes will continue to decline, and if you do not manage the budget on the expenditure side, the deficit will increase. And, see, it is not only as you like to say, malicious opposition, that is increasingly noted by the bodies of the European institutions, in particular the European Commission, which is concerned about the situation in Slovenia or is concerned about the lack of control of the public deficit reduction programme in that country. I am sure that the European Commission, in addition to the opposition in this country, will be very careful to monitor the situation in this country because it is a significant part of the European Union and of the countries in a relatively unpredictable or unpredictable position. Every bit of instability can trigger a financial system across Europe and, of course, Slovenia is among the most problematic countries. That is why the eyes of the European institutions are also open to us. And it is right that these institutions are also reminding you of this in addition to the opposition. You have committed yourself to gradually reducing the structural deficit. The balance of the budget goes in the opposite direction, and unless we reach the mid-term objectives of managing the public financial deficit, we will not reach the end of the goal of reducing the public financial deficit. If we continue to look at that the sum of investment expenditure and investment transfers in the last year of the financial perspective, when we still have to draw on a lot of European funds, the real sum is significantly lower, about 400 million lower, of all investments in that country, such as the budget deficit. That is to say, we have running expenditure and current transfers more than all revenue collected into the state budget. It's suicide. We spend more without investment than we create or collect into the budget. This is dangerous, it can only be if we really have a priority objective of reducing the deficit, but when we increase the deficit by EUR 500 million, as in the case of the rebalancing of this year, at the same time we are so drasticly squeezing investment expenditure and transfers, this is an additional stone in the spiral of the instability of public finances, which can lead only down and nowhere else. And let's see where you cut the most in terms of expenditure into structure. To the municipalities for investments of €70 million less, investments in railways of €75 million less, investments in hospitals of €18.5 million less, the Ministry of the Economy, in particular for incentives for growth and development of €62 million less, which is practically 50% of the budget. I agree with you that from balance sheet B it is possible to plan and also to achieve effective measures to promote economic activity, but only in many cases in combination with balance sheet A or subsidies. You can't do that without it. Tell me how you're going to service new businesses, those that start with ashes, out of nothing. They also need a certain law in the form of grants. You are well aware of this, so we also have European resources. Ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of such reduced inflows as you are planning, EUR 250 million is lower on the basis of tax revenues of legal persons, which is logically that companies in the recession cannot generate profits and even less pay profit taxes, and other taxes, i.e. 500 million less income, and on the other hand the same budget expenditure, with significant cuts in investments, will generate us more than half a billion euros in deficits this year. Thus, the deficit will rise to €600 million at this expenditure-income level alone. Taking into account the remaining budget balances, we will find that this year alone we will have to be in charge of a billion euro to service this. We are indebted, Your Honor, to extremely high interest rates. The former government also had to repay itself at extremely high interest rates, reducing the deficit by one billion according to the legacy it received from most of the current coalition team. Therefore, in these unpleasant situations, we will be additionally burdening the budget with the level of interest costs. The cost of interest on domestic and foreign markets is already EUR 800 million. €800 million is an extremely high number. That is, therefore, what we will pay this year from the debt budget – only for debt servicing. With the forecasts that you are making to control or extend the excess deficit for a longer period of time, we will only increase this amount, which, in the wake of the sadly falling revenue in the state budget, will cover a virtual majority of the soft part of the investment budget. Dear Government, I am aware that it is defiant in such situations to rule and also to hold back public finances. The budget adopted in 2012 for 2013 is not something that would happen spontaneously. That's the point. Each budget shall be a target which must be equipped and currently accompanied by measures to achieve this objective. If someone thought that without effort there would be so much and so much revenue in the budget and so much and so much less expenditure on the functioning public sector just like that and that everything had already been prepared, he had, of course, made a mistake. In the first half of this year, you gave up ambitious plans of the previous government, even after the current expenditure has been cut short by interference with standards and standards in a wide range of parts of the public sector. I'm just wondering when it'll be time for you to realize that without it, it won't work. Or we will place this burden on later and, of course, these measures will only be even sharper. I ask you how you will convince the housewife who controls the family or household budget to spend 20% more for years than the income in this family budget. We have 8 billion revenue, and we are spending 9.6 billion euros. The previous years, in the time of the Pahor government, were even worse, the deficit was about 25%. This has been going on for five years. Let me tell you how in the middle, let alone a long time with such unbalanced finances. We owe each other more and one day it'll be over. And until we are able to understand that we also need to adjust our incomes, God help us for so long. And this government has made up its mind, and this also keeps telling us that it does not intend to do anything in this field this year, but it is relatively mysterious next year. This stuffing of the head into the sand, of course, because it is not the last time that the public likes the messages, but those who lend us money and without the money we can survive in this country, not in the medium term, but only in the long term, have realized that they will no longer lend us money. For this year, we have resolved what will happen next year, what will happen next year when such messages are made, of course, is a big, big question, and the situation can also be worse because of the intervention of European institutions. You also said that the goal of this government is to rehabilitate the banking system. It is said that banks would be able to service the economy and households. The Slovenian banks are also characterised by the fact that they have a lot of deposits and a lot of depositors. Thus, people in Slovenia trust Slovenian banks. That's good. How can a respected Minister of Finance understand the behaviour of some Slovenian banks not to pay interest on subordinated bonds? How do you think that the investor who invested in the bank will be in the bonds with the hope that the money is safely invested and can now be wiped out under the nose for these interest and is in great uncertainty about the payment of that underlying deposit that he put in, how do you think that investor or everyone who is in his circle will ever borrow any euro to the Slovenian banking system? That's a downfall. Loss of confidence is the collapse of the Slovenian banking system. And do, please, whatever it takes to keep this from happening. Your Honor! Between what Slovenia needs in the public financial area and between this balance sheet, there is a big difference. We have therefore also called on the Prime Minister and even the Government to draw up a new balance, based on measures to balance public finances, a gradual balance, including in line with the programme to reduce the country's surplus deficit. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will not support this balance and we will oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u10	Respected and respected! There's almost five years of crisis behind us. Unfortunately, there is no sure prospect ahead of us that we can turn against either our inner self-esteem or our outer self-esteem, which would give us the hope that in a short time it would be better. Social Democrats are aware of that. That is why we are also advocating our political influence for a path which we believe can only ensure the recovery of Slovenia in a way that improves the ability of the whole community to develop, to benefit and to restore the self-confidence it needs to meet the challenges of time. It is our belief that we are facing the next major challenges. Firstly, how to enable an economy buried in great over-indebtedness, opportunities for start-up, growth and new jobs. Secondly, how to restore people, especially young people, confidence in the future, faith in their own abilities and optimistic expectations from the community. Thirdly, taking into account the need to start up the economy and maintain social security and to continue investing in people's abilities and capacities, to balance our public finances in the medium term. These are milestones that determine our behaviour when we adopt the balance of this year's budget. We must choose the middle path between the trap of borrowing and the trap of saving. The fact is that strong imbalances do not contribute to the exit from the crisis. The experiences of Spain, Greece, Portugal and Ireland are instructive and suggest a clear conclusion that we must do everything we can to draw from the danger of the debt spiral that we have fallen into by adopting the measures of the previous government. The findings of the International Monetary Fund on the errors of the Greek script are also important warnings about the situation of Slovenia and the nature of our action. On the other hand, it is also quite clear that maintaining a high level of public spending debt does not lead to recovery, but rather to shutting down Slovenia's access to the necessary funding sources. It worries the rapid rise in debt and not so much its height. In this respect, we attach to the findings of the former President, now the former fiscal council, Professor Senjur, that we must re-evaluate the objectives of our fiscal consolidation. Obviously, we were on the slide, and we'd been working on you. Reducing public expenditure does not help to balance public finances but results in economic activity and job cuts. This then results in reduced public financial revenues and an additional need to deplete public spending. This has happened to Slovenia in the last two years. The continuation of such a policy will over and over again exacerbate our public funding opportunities and again dictate further cuts. That is why budgetary policy also needs to take a turn. The results of such a policy are best seen in Greece. Under the three-year programme, Greece's public debt should begin to decline in the coming year. Instead, from 148% of debt to GDP in 2010, it increased to 170% of Greek GDP. The economy is on its knees, people are scared, they grow extremes, and there seems to be no hope anymore. In order to determine the defeat of such a wrong policy, we do not need to stay at home in Greece, Spain or Portugal. The Janša government’s fiscal consolidation programme reduced domestic consumption by 5.7% in 2012 and 7.7% in the first three months of this year. This led to a fall in gross domestic product when banking spasms and the spread of the doctrine of fear. Instead of the projections after a 0.9% drop last year, a 2.3% drop was recorded. This year, however, the forecasts are decreasing and show that instead of growth of 1.2% of GDP, GDP will fall significantly in Slovenia, falling by 4.8% in the first quarter. We have warned the Social Democrats about a strict austerity policy. We have pointed out that public financial consolidation has no alternative, but that it needs to be implemented gradually, so that we do not have a negative impact on the decline of economic activity on the one hand and the increase in unemployment on the other. This crisis has really come from outside. But here in Slovenian conditions she found fertile soil for growth, because it enabled the finger of our own weaknesses and weaknesses. The high indebtedness of the economy created between 2004 and 2008, when all institutions apparently remained inactive, the pro-cyclical functioning of the then government, which led to overheating the economy and the emergence of public financial imbalances of EUR 1.2 billion per year, the situation in banks that were clearly undervalued, the weak corporate governance and the non-management of poor and inherited investments, the poor functioning of the judicial system and, above all, the absence of a common consensus development vision of that country, which would determine the direction of our path, and thus a more unanimous nature of crisis action. Now we have two concepts instead, and in every change of power, we have a facility in the concept, which is why we stand in place. At this time, the situation on the ground is a radical setback. We are faced with substantially reduced revenues from the planned, by EUR 527 million. Of this tax revenue, EUR 317 million. In doing so, we perceive both the deviations from the forecasts of macroeconomic trends and the pre-optimistic unrealistic planning. This reduces the European Union's funding by €257 million. Of these, €109 million from the Structural Funds and €150 million from cohesion. The opposition claims that this is due to lack of ambition and that these funds must be understood as a goal. Unreal goals, on the other hand, cause problems. In doing so, we stress that the European Union's funds are also planned to be lower than the original plans in the budget, but higher than last year's achieved. In other words, this government maintains higher goals than the previous government has managed to achieve. The same applies to investments. Social Democrats are disturbed by the fate of the funds that Slovenia will not be able to absorb by the end of this year. In doing so, we reiterate that both the European Commission and the European Investment Bank have developed programmes and mechanisms that match Slovenian priorities. For example, the development of urban areas, cities, energy restructuring of buildings, credits and guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises that allow the use of funds not so far engaged from the current financial perspective to be used in the future. We once again call on the Government to approach the reallocation of these funds and ensure their use with the T+4 formula for a further period. Time is running out and immediate action is also needed in this area. On the other hand, as a country, we have needs that have not been taken into account in budget planning. In doing so, two large groups of increased expenditure shall be excluded. Recapitalisation of system banks amounting to EUR 1.2 billion as part of the resolution of the banking system and an increase in the need for the pension system. As far as banks are concerned, the Social Democrats are allowing the possibility that the way banks can be rescued is different, but the fact is that an important part of the problem stems from congestion in the banking system. Without solving this problem, it will not be possible to get on the path of recovery. That's why we have to solve this problem. We have been reminding this in the Group of Social Democrats for many years. On a flat and malicious basis, mathematically speaking, it is logical to show that we have fully invested in increased indebtedness. That's the wrong impression. In the background, there is a major restructuring of the expenditure side, where the real use of available resources is being followed. Taking into account the reduced revenue and only partially compensating these reductions with increased tax revenues, we also need to recognise the large-scale reductions in the budgets of individual ministries. In this regard, however, the investments that Social Democrats recognize as knowledgeers of the winding-up policy, the extensive measures to restructure the economy and help businesses, the systemic extension and changes in financial and insolvency legislation, the recapitalisation of banks and the transfer of their poor claims, the maintenance of social security levels, the high level of active employment and investment in education and science as ways to strengthen the capacity and competence of our people, including new measures to promote youth employment. In doing so, we are proud to have managed to maintain the level of investment in knowledge, science and development and to increase the competence of job seekers with active employment policy programmes, and we have provided important funds for investing in economic restructuring, of which EUR 200 million in claims and investments balance, as well as for its technological advancement and assistance to firms in difficulty. We hear warnings from Brussels, too. We take them for granted and weigh them carefully, but we cannot pass on the important knowledge that the European Union is also, and this is demonstrated in several cases, has chosen the wrong concept of facing the crisis. This is not just our conclusion, it is the findings of a number of prominent global economists, institutions, but not finally of citizens. That is why the European Union needs to change. Social Democrats remain firmly on the line of advanced pro-European policy. We warn against the dangers of Euroscypticism, which is growing precisely because of the wrong, people and their options for alienated European policies. We stress that Europe is strong when it leads by its example. We cannot say that we are satisfied with this rebalancing. The general social situation, the economic situation and the social situation of our people tell us that we are far from that satisfaction. We believe, however, that, in the context of the possibility, this rebalancing is a good example of catching our goals in the medium term, gradually balancing public finances and, above all, ensuring people's economic activity. A key measure for fiscal consolidation is, in our belief, the start of the economy. Starting the economy, creating jobs, restoring optimism among our people and restoring confidence in the country and confidence in the future. This is the path that Social Democrats recognize in this balance, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! Let me also say on behalf of the National Gazette that we will support the proposal for a rebalancing. It is just a need to make a rebalance, and I think that the proposal we have on the table is better than the existing current budget. The fact is that the government has to react when things happen on the revenue and expenditure side that were not budgeted. That is why it is right that we have made a rebalancing which reduces the revenue by just over EUR 500 million. Thus, it remains at the same level of expenditure – 9 billion 600, with the need to further establish in revenue that there were not enough planned interest payments of up to EUR 122 million, that there were not enough planned pension funds or transfers to the pension fund. Here, too, the amount is considerable, € 140 million. Here I have some doubts about the planning system, because such major errors, at least in the calculation of interest or pensions, should not occur when preparing the existing budget. Moreover, income estimates, irrespective of the lower, lower economic growth forecasts, are too high. In particular, taxes could be more precisely determined or planned on what kind of income will be. Therefore, despite the fact that a 500 million-euro deficit is expected to increase if the balance sheet is not adopted, the deficit would increase to EUR 2 billion, a billion-euro deficit, that is a fact. In a way, we are trapped by some budgetary system, where the budget, as on the table, is a compromise, some agreement of an existing government coalition, how it will distribute very small funds among budgetary consumers. However, I must say that the budget is a major problem because most of the budget spending is in some way cemented by various laws. Practically, the room for manoeuvre for any government that is very small for change or saving. And these things will have to be changed in the future. The balance sheet should also not forget the change made on page B of the balance sheet, which allocates funds for the recapitalisation of banks and for servicing or financial assistance to enterprises and financial institutions. These amounts are large and I am not worried that these loans or guarantees will ever turn into an unplanned outflow or government budget expenditure. I hope that these funds will be earmarked and implemented in an appropriate manner, rationally and correctly. With the budget, especially if there is little money, we are very unhappy, each of the budget consumers. Maybe I could tell you a comparison with companies, which is happening to us too often. The company comes into crisis, reduces orders, reduces revenues, the company does not react and what follows – all too often we see how such companies go bankrupt. Many of the reasons why companies do not react are also due to certain laws of certain rights, both in the field of workers where you cannot forgive a person if you do not have a job, you cannot adequately reduce costs and the result is that the company is failing. I'm afraid even with the state's money. I must say that all four cash years have been spent – I always point out that we do not have just the budget and that it is right to always talk about all four cash registers together – 16 billion 125 million euros last year we spent in all four cash registers, slightly less than 9 billion 360 we spent in the budget, 4 billion 851 she spent on pension bills, 2 billion 318 she spent on medical bills, 2 billion 18 she spent on congregations. These are all four cash registers and total 16 billion, little less than half of GDP we spend practically on common needs. And that's essentially too much. Now we have in this budget, as I have already said, most of the things cemented. We created ourselves in the history of the loop that we fit into in a time of crisis. We've done a lot of different rights that we give in the budget, we've set standards, we've set indices, we've set up a system of pensions, we've accounted for all things. A whole series of things are defined by the law. We have set standards in education, perhaps too loose standards for productivity in these sectors, even in health care, to be better. We've made demands on the buildings we're building for the homes of the pensioners. We're all overblown. All of us are prepared for prosperity, but we are not able to make any changes with all of this or when the situation gets worse, then we do not know how to behave and spend too much. If we are not able to adjust consumption to revenue, then we are in trouble. And I'll move on to our public debt service. We planned these 17 billion euros for 700 million euros this year. You can see that we are increasing this amount by EUR 122 million with a rebalancing rate of EUR 820 million to service public debt. We gave 620 euros last year. Thus, debt servicing increased by EUR 200 million in one year. One is our more expensive debt than we knew before, and one is the extent of the debt that is increasing. 200 million is a very large proportion of the budget and is becoming this structural problem because the debt is always higher and this new budget will also bring an additional debt, additional costly debt and additional burden, because without returning anything, these burdens over the next period and will affect the need to reduce spending. So I was kind of happy when we finally managed, too late, to agree on the shape of a golden rule. The fact is that we have somehow assured ourselves and said that we cannot and must not spend more than we create. We agreed on a delay in how long we have to get to equal spending – I think it's too late and we haven't taken it seriously enough. In some ways, the Golden Rule allows us or should also be one of the government's orientations to make more use of the state budget. It used to be hard. We know how we accepted the ZUJF, how we collected the 950 million in order to reduce them, how many problems there were, how many threats with different referendums, with different issues and how many comments there were that were not in accordance with the Constitution and so on. Now with this golden rule, we have said that we will not spend more than it is, and this is now above all the laws I mentioned earlier. We could accept certain things immediately and no longer face the threat of referendums, because we have also adopted this legislation so that in the area of fiscal matters we cannot talk on the street, that there are things that have priority and need to be addressed as a matter of priority. Therefore, I think that when we have decided to adopt a change in the Constitution, we should also actually influence that we are more proactive in the elimination of some or in the greater flexibility of our budget. In a state of crisis, we should cut down significantly more on expenditure and costs, on standards and all these things. I really think it would be good for us to pour ourselves some pure wine and not cause any more problems. So we have a chance, maybe we're not aware because we've lived our whole lives in this matter, when we're just building, we've created, we've legalized a whole series of rights that are now burdening us. By doing too many holes in the budget, too much debt, we cut down the branch we're sitting on. There will be an ever-increasing problem. See, I mentioned interest, I can also mention pension, a billion and a half out of five billion should be added from the budget, and this part is increasing very quickly. We have only delayed these reforms for too long, and we have no one to ask, we are to blame ourselves. The pension reform, we have also adopted too mildly because of these threats, which are no longer there, and we will have to cut into this again. We are also delaying the reform of the health system, and I don't know how many ministers have already proposed it and we don't hope to get hold of this thing. We have to do this, and we have to do it now. We've got some more areas to do. Perhaps I would also mention this European money when it was mentioned that revenue is falling by 259 million. I think it is right to admit that last year we had 830 and some other revenue from the European Union and we planned it this year because the financial perspective is ending, a billion 440. I don't think it's real that we're that big, and it's also a billion 180, which is going to be pretty much, 185 is going to be a lot more than it was last year or the year before. I think we really need to take things seriously and do certain things. But I come to these things and in these discussions into some sort of dilemma. I think that our problem – and it will become increasingly difficult, because we are too indecisive in reducing certain forms of consumption, in correcting certain loose standards in all things, in employment, in the public sector, in all things, we are too loose and I fear that we will not achieve because we are too easily interfering with the increase in revenues, taxes, extra taxes, so I am afraid that we are once again putting a trap around our necks. The fact is, we are in a situation where we all know that our companies are not competitive, they have too much taxes, too much contributions to cash registers, anyhow, so there are more and more companies closing down and new jobs. With additional taxes and additional burdens, this should be building land, whether cadastral income or any category, including VAT and a number of other things that will affect so-called reduction in consumption and, on the other hand, the charging of the state treasury, we are in a situation where these additional taxes are likely to cause more damage than the benefits. We should therefore make an end here once and actually do something to increase the competitiveness of the economy. I've said many times, let's stop this part that employers pay for social contributions and social security. Many businesses and many jobs would be preserved. It doesn't help businesses if they have structural problems. We also say for the country, structural problems need to be solved. The current ones are already delayed by additional borrowing. The problem for businesses to be in this situation is that they have become structurally indebted and can never return this money. We see how credits are returned and how these bad claims are accumulated in banks, and we have no way out of this. It is therefore necessary to do something to increase the competitiveness of the economy in every way. However, not by subsidising, there are too many subsidies, not by lending to companies with State guarantees, which is the same as subsidies, especially in those companies where this credit is unlikely to be returned. You have also seen in the budget that the amount to be paid by the State during the period, I do not know from which year on, is increasing by EUR 45 million. Many of these credits, which we have been lending since the crisis started in 2008, 2009, 2010 are not coming back at all or have been spent on state subsidies. In short, it is necessary to see and find out and put things very clearly on the table, to harmonise consumption – not today, not tomorrow, but today. It wouldn't hurt to see any action come this year. Nothing would hurt if it were in a positive direction to adopt any more rebalancing this year if it were to settle or improve the financial situation. I think that we are too strict that we are too prisoners of some of the laws, some of the loops we have set ourselves, and that we must be aware that the current state of affairs, when we have adopted the fiscal rule, is fundamentally different and makes it possible to take significantly greater steps in public consumption towards structural reduction and regulation in a way that will once start an economic start in this country. We know that Europe is in a lot of sin, so we don't have to sin. We know how many problems we have with the management of state-owned enterprises, how many problems we have with state-owned property or all of these things. There's a whole range of areas where we don't try to solve things. It's too small to be specific in banks. The bank should solve its own problem. The State should be given the opportunity to postpone resolution for a longer period of time and there would be no cost. For example, within ten years, these banks can make sure that they correct the nonsense they have done. I think this rebalancing is a step in the right direction. I think it is necessary to call on all actors to be even more determined in their work and to lead to our lives and our prospects for all citizens, so that we can be optimistic about the future. For the time being, we are still trapped in problems that we have created ourselves. There's a lot of options. In the Civil Gazette, we will support the proposal for a rebalancing. We would like to press forward with the preparation of the budget in the coming year towards a reduction of deficits or an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Starman. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u14	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Vice-President, ministers, representatives of various ministries! Today we have a very important document before us, because in this mandate, which the electorates and voters have entrusted us with, we are talking about a second budget in a four-year period, as far as the term of one parliamentary term is concerned. During this time, we have adopted two budgets or adopted one, we accept the other today, we call ourselves last year and today we are talking about this year. Let me begin by saying that, in my position below, I will also touch wider images, because I think we are getting too involved in accusing the previous government, and we are less interested in looking the truth into our eyes. However, at the outset, last year, in fact, there were a number of things that were done in the last three months until the adoption of the budget's rebalancing, before the infamous ZUJF, which was so brutally attacked by members of today's coalition last year, you also later accused some of the measures, but in fact, last year's budget with this rebalancing after many years has reversed the trend that the deficit in the country has been reduced, for the first time in Slovenia alone, that for the first time we have been able to reach something in this direction that sometimes some rights must be denied or slightly reduced if we want to live another decade and ensure the future for our children. From here on in last year, we have also adopted a pension reform. The great attack on the government and later all movements on the road and the collapse of the government, partly because of their own faults, and largely because of the brutal attack since the start of the bad bank project, has led to a new year. In the new year, the fall of the government and the truth to love must be acknowledged that two, three months, even in the severe winter, when Slovenian constructionists were practically three months at home, even this is known to GDP, then we came to a new government, which also took some major steps with the help and pressure of the opposition, such as the fiscal rule, referendum legislation. The National Reform Programme, the Stability Programme, which, to be fair, was largely based on the reforms adopted last year, on the reforms adopted last year and on the measures adopted by the ZUJF, as well as on the two constitutional amendments already adopted unanimously or by the opposition in large majority, was adopted unanimously by the coalition. But then a key document comes into play, says the budget rebalancing, before that, in my deep conviction, a quick agreement with the unions, which has virtually brought no results, and at the end of that time a rebalancing, in which the prime minister, as she has repeatedly said publicly, and also today, in my deep belief, nothing civil when she attacked everyone in this room, said that the key problem of this budget and the budget rebalancing was the wrong policy of last year and the wrong forecast and also said that she was not going to do anything, it is said that the situation as it is, is, okay, and that, on the basis of the agreements that have been agreed, things will go forward. This country is facing some very crucial changes this year, the rehabilitation of the banking system, governance arrangements for state property, privatisation and the final adoption of the implementing fiscal rule law. I hope that we will succeed in this work. As I have already said, I would like to actually show this real state, which I firmly believe we do not want to see in Slovenia, when dealing with this year's rebalancing with some of the graphs we have drawn up. First of all, as far as gross social income is concerned. This is our sad picture, where we see that in 2008 gross social income stopped at those 37 billion, and now we are slowly falling and falling below EUR 35 billion of gross social income, and we have virtually not taken measures to reverse this wrong trend. The following graph shows the situation from Estonia, which has often been presented as a very wrong case, where a cruel approach, a sharper approach to the recovery of the situation, when the crisis looked into the eyes, but from the graph we see that this policy, which was in Estonia, has brought relatively fast – in three years, it is said by 2011, the situation of GDP back to that of 2007, 2008, when it was the highest, and that now from year to year this gross social income is growing and the trend is very appropriate. Let me just say that Estonia has only a 10% deficit and is in charge of 10%. What's happening to our public debt? This is a picture of the next graph. Those who see problems only last year, please, if you look at this graph and you will see what is happening to us in these years and how dangerous this graph is, which is now presented here. We see that we have successfully settled this public debt there from 2002 until 2008 and that this public debt has then stopped there at eight billion. Now these numbers are how things have been growing since the crisis, and at the same time some governments, which were mostly made up of today's position, have been a little mixed in between the species and there's a new party, and there's a policy, and people are practically a little distributed, but we can say that they are the same. During this time, we have brought our beloved Slovenia so far that our debt of eight billion will now amount to 21 billion by the end of the year, according to Death. What is most problematic about this public debt, and where is the trap that I believe we have already fallen into, but some still say that no, is that this debt is simply created by the current public deficit and, on the other hand, by such supplements as the rehabilitation of banking systems and the like. In three years, the government of Borut Pahor has made those two billion deficits — no measures, and so today. Apparently, it's not necessary today either. Last year, there was a billion-dollar public deficit. It is increasing here because we had about one billion euro in stock at the end of the year so that we could survive more peacefully this year. In this year, I believe that the government has over-indebted the €2.7 billion. Why too fast? Because our key problem is not only the rise in this public debt, but that we are now returning credits that we have leased in the past for about 4% and we are hiring new loans about 6% to 7%. If we say that in nominal numbers. So here's the problem that we're going to return about 2 billion old loans this year and rent 2 billion new loans and raise a billion and a half euros deficit for which we're going to have to borrow money again. And we now borrow this money from 6 to 7%, or what my colleague Starman said earlier, this is this difference, where instead of paying 80 million in last year's debt, we are paying 200 to 250 million euros, depending on our debt. And that is also the deceiving when some say or speak that it is comparable to Germany, where it is 80%. If we owe 80% of our debt, this will mean between 25 billion and 28 billion compared to GDP. I am afraid that if this government leads such a policy, it will be by the end of this mandate if there are two more fiscal years, fourteen and fifteen, in the hands of this government, that means that we will get there next year close to 25 billion, that is 70% of GDP, and one year later we will arrive at the 28 billion. Or else, instead of the good 800 million now, we're threatening to pay between two and a half billion for these interest payments, if we get those loans. Therefore, we are warned from abroad that this is insurmountable, that it is impossible. And just to compare, if we had the same interest rate as Germany, 1.6 for public debt, we would have been paid for 80%, that's 28 billion, 400 million, that's not what we paid by 2008. And the key problem is that, respected colleagues, outside, they no longer believe that we are able to tame and curb public spending and that, in order to fill this deficit, we will come into such troubles that we will simply be over-indebted. In the following graph is the public debt per capita, which is only calculated. From this we see that we have come from 4 000 euros already to over 10,000 euros per every Slovenian in these last four years, from 2009 to 2013. And as we've already noted, we also have a significantly higher annual interest amount, which is in the next graph, and that's now this 800 million. Or, in other words, that we are already paying around 10% of all the revenue we receive in the budget so that we can service public debt. In the past, this was below 4%. For easier performances from these country numbers per individual – 400 euro each Slovenian has been paying interest this year. It threatens us to pay us even more in the coming years, so there is a great deal of concern out there about our situation. The following numbers say, this is the number now on the graph, the payment of interest. In addition to these economic trends, when we all know that, with such an economic policy as we have, we have also led to a much larger number of unemployed people, and this then undermines this structure, where there are now significantly fewer people working, people are receiving more social transfers and, on the other hand, because of people's decisions when the pension reform is adopted, we have significantly increased the number of pensioners. And that number, I think, is the reality that the number of pensioners will also increase, and the problem is that there are fewer and fewer workers. This is now a graph showing the number of pensioners, over 600,000, in the next graph we see that at the end of 2012 we had a little more than 1.4 employees per pensioner, today this number is already below 1.4. Then these transfers for pensions and other cash registers are increasing and we are arriving in a field close to a billion 600. The following graph also shows the number of employees in the public sector. This is a curve that has reached 150 000 employees in the state sector since 1995 and we all know that from 130 to 160 000 in the public sector. These are now numbers that are not connected to last year's government, to this year's government, but to the reality in Slovenia, which was in the hands of several governments at that time, and from Mr Drnovska to Peterlet at the beginning, and these are the trends that we should think of. A key trend and a key deviation from the sustainability of our policy has been ours since 2009, when we also have a major problem with these Taiwanese acquisitions and the acceleration in the crisis, which should not otherwise be as big as it was. A lot of mistrust means that we are now in the ranking of 6 to 7% of our money and, respected colleagues and colleagues, if we continue with this policy – and simply abroad obviously does not trust us, as has been said today, we want or do not want to, depending on the fact that we are borrowing money in the financial markets. And if we do not get confidence in those who lend money to the country, as a result to banks, including the economy, to an individual, we will pay these interest in the rank of the most risky African countries between 6% and 7%, so much time Slovenia simply does not help. We must take key steps to restore confidence in the seriousness of our decisions and in leading a sustainable policy onward. We have indeed written down and also submitted to Brussels a stability programme for 2013. We have also given a national reform programme, which contains many things, but what we are doing today is not what we have written in this National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme. There we have written that two-thirds of the consolidation of public finances will be carried out on the expenditure side of the budget, one-third of the revenue. The policy that this government is leading is going in the wrong direction. It is a direction of additional burden with new taxes, but we do not want to talk about the need to do anything on the expenditure side. There will be no deceiving that we are threatening with a Greek scenario and that, because of what the opposition is saying, pensions will be lower by 20 or 30%, social benefits will be lower and wages will be lower, as the respected prime minister answered my question. We're talking about what we did last year. Last year we made an effort and saved around €400 million on the wage segment in the public sector, social transfers, including pensions and material costs in the budget, totaling around €8 billion. In order to have a balanced budget, it would be crucial to achieve approximately that much savings over the next two, three years. We're not talking about taking 20% from anyone. It is not true, however, that the great achievement with which Minister Virant feared that in this strong agreement for two years he had agreed on 0.9% of GDP or 37 million savings in the public sector. If this government continues to lead policy in this way, until the end of 2015 – and I say so responsiblely behind this phone call – in 2015, 2016, these benefits will be reduced by so much because someone will come to this country and make order and we will simply not get the money from elsewhere. This has been said more than once, it is a simple calculation that everyone must make at home – you cannot have 800 euros in wages and a thousand euros in expenses. And this can't take five years, which someone is trying to tell us is possible under the government you are forming in Slovenia. In this part we have wanted to work constructively in the Slovenian People's Party from the very beginning. These unpopular measures, which have also led many people to the streets last year, including through policies and those involved in politics, need to be negotiated. What we expect and what should be done today at least is that the package, two-thirds of the expenditure and one-third of the revenue, would be on the table to reach a political consensus between the coalition and the opposition and today to tell Slovenia and Slovenia what our reality is. I talk to people a lot, and I am really very surprised when I listen to fellow Members and Members of the National Assembly, when the pensioners on the street are telling us, "We are aware that the situation is serious, do something, we are afraid that in two, three years we will not have pensions and that our children will go abroad." I think that what we are talking about in the Slovenian People's Party is that the coalition is simply putting its head in the sand and in the light of providing electoral votes for those seen in this context of the public sector, social and part-retirement, and this is taking the country to ruin. We are also being led to destruction by what has already been said to be thought and assessed that the Slovenian economy, trade, agriculture is capable of collecting another EUR 500 million. The first 280 you predicted or already performed on an annual level through VAT, the other 280 you predict through real estate tax. And under this policy, which is now being led by the government, there will certainly be a crisis income tax next year, as such a policy leads to open scissors and a collapse of the economy. Taxes will be collected in this way less, so in the Slovenian People's Party we assess and firmly believe that this is a completely wrong policy that is damaging our economy and leading us to destruction in the long run. I think that the time has really come, as we also wrote yesterday in the initiative given to the coalition, to send a letter to the Prime Minister so that Slovenian politics can sit at the same table and start to speak the same sober, responsible language, a language that would go towards building our future. This balance of what I have just talked about does not express itself, so we do not intend to support it in the Slovenian People's Party. We want to point out clearly and publicly, as a responsible opposition, all the errors recorded in this balance sheet. Once again, we call for cooperation, on our part, we express our readiness to correct the wrong document and to jointly prepare and adopt a better document, one that would lead Slovenia to the future, not to destruction, where such a policy leads us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mrs Marija Plevčak will give her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Good day to you all! As we have already heard several times today, the main reason for the rebalancing is a poor macroeconomic relationship compared to the forecast at the 2013 budget and, consequently, the over-estimated revenue. Therefore, the Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners are aware that it was an extremely difficult task before the drafters of the proposal to reconcile the revenue and expenditure side of the budget at a time when the Republic of Slovenia is increasingly experiencing the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. Nevertheless, the 2013 budget rebalancing brings considerable cuts to most of the budget lines. According to our assessment, the balance sheet is not the most developmental instrument and should increase the current economic stagnation as a key instrument of macroeconomic policy in combination with increased VAT. If we take a quick look at a few ministries, for example, the Ministry of Health will lose €21 million, which is 19% of their budget. The loss of funds is primarily at the expense of investments. Funding for the construction of emergency centres and the EHealth project has also been reduced due to the failure to draw on European Union funds. We are very concerned about this in the DeSUS Group because we fear that the health consequences will be extremely severe, especially if we know that the adoption of the so-called intervention health law is halted because of opposition from some coalition parties who are likely to defend the interests of the richer layers. The healthcare industry would urgently need €80 million. And what we are particularly concerned about in the DeSUS Group is that the consequences of these cuts in health care will be felt by the most vulnerable groups in Slovenia, such as older, children, chronic patients. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will also receive €62 million less. By means of a rebalancing, for example, it will save on investments that have a beneficial, multiplier impact on economic growth and on incentives for growth and development of businesses. These will fall from 33 to a total of a good million euros. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will lose 13.6% of its funds, or 11.27 million euros, by means of a rebalancing exercise. However, without taking into account the resources for wages, the reduction is almost 19 %. The ministry is thus running out of money even to cover the needs of diplomatic and consular representations for the last three months, to cover the OECD membership of €2.73 million, and to cover the accumulated debt for United Nations peacekeeping operations worth about €10 million. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a rebalancing. Nevertheless, we would like to draw attention to a few other things. We agree that a rebalancing is necessary because this year's budget has been made on unrealistic assumptions of growth or economic downturn. However, we wonder whether this proposal for a rebalancing is entirely realistic and whether we will ever be able to balance the income and expenditure in the balance sheet and thus prevent at least an increase in the budget gap. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners want the state to finally decisively stop the grey economy, thereby increasing the tax inflow to the state treasury or that the state can pick up what belongs to it. The level of the grey economy, according to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, can be estimated at between 28% and 29% of GDP. According to their assessment, around €800 million per year could be collected from the reduction of the grey economy in the area of classical, illegal economic activities, taking into account the total amount of social security and tax contributions. In the DeSUS Group, we also expect the country to become more active in tax collection. According to Dursa, the amount of tax debt in this year is as much as €1 billion 616 million. We're also wondering why we still can't check where the money is from and if it's consistent with his income. There is enough information to say that Slovenians own 12 thousand vessels that are registered in Croatia and are not taxed for them. We therefore appeal to the Government and the competent services not to be afraid to take decisive action and to take firm measures against debtors and tax collectors, to demand the payment of taxes and contributions and thereby to increase the inflows to the budget. Lowering wages, monetary, social benefits, as may be said, even pensions, saving on investments, are not solutions that would lead to greater consumption and recovery of the economy, as such measures bring citizens and citizens into even greater distress and, above all, a tightening of the belt. Despite our critical words, we will support Members and Members of the Democratic Party of the Workers' Party's proposal for a rebalancing, as it represents the best possible solution in this situation at present. We will also support the proposed amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This brings the legalisation of solutions that will allow the smooth implementation of the adopted budget or the balance, since it does not contain articles to regulate material content. Therefore, in addressing this amendment of the law, which will be considered tomorrow, we will not particularly represent the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will move the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! In the introduction to the draft budget rebalancing proposal, we read, and then we listened to the President of the Government that the reasons for the budget rebalancing for this year are two in particular. The first reason is the unrealistic planning of budget revenues and expenditure prepared by the previous government. Here she underlined the word "unreal". The second reason for the rebalancing is the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation and the forecast for this year. In this place, I must say that from the government circles, in fact, I have only, in fact, heard an expert presentation of the reasons and the very balance of the budget for this year on the Commission for the supervision of public finances presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Mateja Vrančar. Everything else was more like that. In New Slovenia's view, this is a key reason, and we first pointed out, which led to a greater gap between budget revenues and expenditure, the political crisis that stopped the development wheel for good three, maybe four months in Slovenia. At that time, political developments were in the dead course, the measures already planned had not been taken and consequently there were no results. The responsibility for the political crisis, and in particular the consequences it has brought, lies with those political parties that have triggered such a political crisis. New Slovenia cannot bear responsibilities in this respect. The new coalition, after finally forming the government after four months, did not take the measures it had entered into the coalition contract or agreement and thus into the stability programme in a timely manner. In the stability programme, the government has committed itself to two priorities: revitalising economic growth and stabilising public finances. Instead of measures to revive economic growth, where economic stress measures would be expected, the ruling coalition voted to increase tax burdens. In particular, an increase in the value added tax rate will further stifle the economy. Other tax measures are also announced, in particular an increase in the corporate tax rate. This law, which is already in parliamentary procedure, will deter potential investors, particularly foreign investors, from investing in our country. The operation of the so-called bad bank or bank debt management company has so far not been largely transferred, resulting in banks remaining in a credit crunch and unable to credit economies. The government coalition is late to establish the Slovenian State Holding and consequently to improve governance with state-owned companies. We have also missed time in the area of European funds. All these reasons show that the government coalition simply failed with the planned recovery of economic growth and the deterioration of the macroeconomic environment is largely due to such a government policy. The current government coalition is also failing in the area of consolidation of public finances. Instead of reducing public spending, the government has only taken measures to raise revenues. It has increased practically all taxes and other taxes that are even possible and has begun to introduce new taxes. The predicted real estate tax, the fortune tax, the increase in duties on motor vehicles and so on. At the same time, or with taxes it will burden the broadest social strata, here I refer in particular to the specific rural burden. In doing so, I would particularly point out an increase in cadastral income and, consequently, an increase in the cadastral income tax, which will certainly follow in the coming years. In New Slovenia we are convinced that the burden of the population and the economy with ever-new taxes is not the right way out of the crisis. In particular, we note that the government is spending a good billion euros, that is, a thousand million euros from this year's budget for a new one, at the time of the crisis, the third recapitalisation of state banks. The burden of bad loans and irresponsible members of the boards and members of the supervisory boards, in particular the so-called tycoon loans, is again imposed on taxpayers. At the same time, the government coalition, with the support of important state institutions, does not have the will to disclose the names of the grey eminences of the Slovenian banking system, which have led the Slovenian banks and consequently the economy to the state we now have and the tools it has at its disposal to claim their substantive and criminal responsibilities. Such a government policy inevitably, unfortunately, leads to a goal that we do not all want together. This is the arrival of the European Trinity. This is what the European Commission's latest reports indicate. At yesterday's meeting of the Euro Group, the European Commission addressed Slovenia and informed us that our fiscal efforts are not sufficient. In recent times, representatives of the Commission have warned Slovenia that, at a time when the expenditure on pensions and interest is increasing, it would have to cut in other areas if it really wanted to manage public finances. Commissioner for Monetary Affairs Olli Rehn said that the situation of Slovenia is serious, otherwise it is still manageable, but, as he said figuratively, the clock is ticking. According to the first man of the Euro group Jeroena Dijsselbloem, Slovenia will have to act effectively until October. This deadline has already been set by the European Commission in the recommendations adopted at the end of May. The neighbouring Minister of Finance Maria Fecter is also concerned about what is happening in Slovenia. And what exactly does the budget rebalance bring us? By increasing the public deficit by around 53% or, in particular, over €538 million. Investment funds are declining, investment funds are shrinking virtually across all ministries, mostly in the area of health and infrastructure. In the area of local infrastructure, the reduction in investment funds is more than 20%, although we know that more than 70% of public investment is being made at the local level today. In Novi Slovenija, we proposed, with the amendment we tabled on the parent's working body, that at least in this area the funds do not shrink. This is about projects which are largely co-financed by the European Union. These projects concern the provision of basic infrastructure to the population or its maintenance from water pipelines, sewerage, roads, sidewalks. Most of the projects are already in the stage of preparation or even the realization and reduction of these funds will prevent already modest economic activity. It is worrying to reduce these funds for less developed Slovenian regions. Like, for example, for a pomurski. Rebalance, this is my personal assessment, which means an eccentric violation of the law on development support to Pomurje for the period 2010-2015. The government thus enjoys a violation of the law or a failure here in this house of adopted laws. It is worrying to reduce funds in the area of tourism support, which is an important economic sector. In this area, we are facing severe competition and the reduction of funds for the promotion and marketing of tourism will result in the decline of, in particular, foreign and domestic guests. In New Slovenia, we have therefore proposed with the amendments tabled that the funds on these programmes should not be reduced, and here I must welcome the government's position, which we have received in writing today, that the government supports the amendment, which will allocate about three million euros to support tourism, in this place I also commend the government so that it does not sound like we are criticising from the opposition that the government supports the amendment that we have tabled, weighs about 3 million to carry out infrastructure projects in Roma settlements. These are also the only amendments the government has in its opinion turned on the green light. Conclusion. Overall, the 2013 state budget will be completely underdeveloped due to the situation and will increase the current severe economic stagnation as a key instrument of government macroeconomic policy in combination with increased VAT. Through the balance sheet, the country will therefore save on investments that have a beneficial, multiplier impact on economic growth. The balance is also reflected in the figures that the government of another commits and intends to do as it predicted. If a rebalancing of the 2013 budget of the Republic of Slovenia is truly expected in autumn, then in New Slovenia we note that we really expect the country to start saving first itself, that the government will truly, through the optimal organisational scheme of the state apparatus, lead to savings. If that's not the case, then we're really getting off on the wrong foot. Members of the New Slovenia Group will not support the 2013 budget rebalancing for the reasons I have stated.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you. Procedural Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u20	I have to say that I have been in these benches, but I have also accompanied many discussions on the balance sheets, the budgets. They usually began by presenting the macro-economic indicators to the Governor of Banka Slovenije, the presentation also by Director Umarje, and there was certainly a finance minister, as well as the President of the Government. I think that today we are talking about a critical year, a critical budget, and therefore I protest that there is no financial minister or government president present when such a point is addressed at least at the time when the parliamentary groups present their views.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you for your warning, but we can find out that the Government is present in this debate and the conditions are met that the National Assembly may continue to work. Dr László Göncz has the floor on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, which will present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The correction of the budget is necessary and we hope that the budget balance can at least have a positive impact on the consolidation of public finances. That's why we're going to support him. I would not like to further deepen the debate on the quantitative and substantive elements of the proposed balance. There was already a lot of pro and contra from all sides. Undoubtedly, however, it is the Government's great responsibility to try to bring about an extremely critical situation at least partially mitigated. We are all well aware that, among other things, this must take into account the sustainability of social and other systems or the balance in our society, which is, and we can certainly see this, given the many times that financial policies have not been sufficiently responsible in the past 15 years and the mistakes made in this context are almost impossible. We are also aware that the proposed rebalancing is some kind of compromise, which, at least so we hope, with regard to the planned effects of the promise a little bit more than it has provided for the budget in force so far, which was adopted in a few different circumstances before the bad year. However, it is likely that the proposal for a rebalancing is still too ambitious for the expected solutions to comprehensive financial consolidation to be achieved more quickly. Personally, I think that, in view of the budgetary crisis we are in, and primarily, I think of our situation as a very large budget deficit, unfortunately, we are still not at the lowest point. The balance of the budget in the work relating to the maintenance and development and functioning of the organisations and institutions of indigenous national communities is not nominally changed compared to the 2013 budget adopted. This means that the Government has respected and respected the agreement with the representatives of the Italian and Hungarian communities and, despite the extremely difficult situation, has correctly assessed that, with possible direct intervention, the already minimised financial resources in this area would further exacerbate the situation of very vulnerable national communities. The Government needs to be commended for the responsible attitude on this issue. A formal change in the so-called nationalities items is only to be observed because of the change in the status of the so-called Nationality Service, which will henceforth act as a stand-alone office within the Government, not more within the Ministry of the Interior. That's why the funds don't change. By the way, let me mention that this decision on organisation is correct and is also followed by coordination with national communities. In the area of culture, education and information, the level of resources is nominally identical with the amounts adopted under the 2013 budget. We are guaranteed this by all the competent ministries. As far as supporting the economic base of indigenous communities is concerned, there would be no changes on this item, but in the Group of Members we find that we could collectively create a much greater added value from the point of view of the wider geographical area if we took into account some constructive and promising proposals of the National Community. As I have already pointed out in the introduction, we will support the proposed balance and we will also support the proposed amendments, which are also supported by the competent home committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Gönch. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and Mr Aloji Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! First of all, I agree with my colleague Bogovic on the procedural reminder given to the Government. Initially, a few words at the conceptual level. Some of the debates in the working bodies of the National Council, but also from rare comments by the interested and professional public, made it clear that the balance was unnecessary. That this is more about the government's prestigious move or that the proposal is due to some kind of government mutiny. In fact, it is not the will of the government to propose a rebalancing. The Public Finance Act is the one which, in meeting certain conditions, requires the Government to propose a budget rebalancing to the National Assembly. The government does not weigh whether it can or should be good or not, the government must implement the provisions of the law, Article 40 of the Public Finance Act. In theory, the government has some options, such as to temporarily suspend the execution of individual expenditure, but the measure is in fact merely a delay in time, like the reallocation of appropriations, and often a questionable use of budgetary provisions of assigned revenue and so on. Rebalancing is an act of state during the flight. With this emphasis, I would like to draw particular attention to the limited impact it has. Therefore, ambitions in adopting the balance are generally too high, the balance cannot correct reality but can and must adapt to it. After all, similar difficulties have come to mind that in May of last year, the previous government has also met to remind you once again of night meetings in a much more heated atmosphere. For the first time, the government hit a demand for a budget rebalancing in April when it took note of information on the assessment of the state of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013. A few days later, the National Assembly was informed of the information. The content of the document, which deals with both the revenue and the expenditure side of the budget, shows the emergence of new commitments and, in particular, the changed economic developments that reduce the revenue of the budget. So there are two reasons for the rebalancing. For the first time, strongly, not for those who have followed this, unexpectedly, the situation at home has changed and they have changed in Europe. There are excessive macroeconomic imbalances in Slovenia. Thus, Slovenia was re-established by the European Commission in April 2013. Secondly, in the country's budget, i.e. in an act which provides a financial basis for the functioning of the State, there was an imbalance between revenue and expenditure. So it was logical that the budget should be for the examination. If I'm left alone in the fiscal area. On the basis of the situation and data contained in the National Reform Programme stability programme, the Council of the European Union also considers that Slovenia will address the excessive deficit by 2013, which was originally planned. Based on experience in crisis resolution from Greece to non-Mediterranean Ireland, knowledge has changed significantly over the last year, opinions have changed and policies have changed. Three's here. The Troika today represents three priorities in this Parliament: financial stability, fiscal consolidation and growth promotion measures. What went wrong – if anything, in the 2013 budget? Many of the deteriorations were unlikely to be planned and expected. This is handled with caution and, as a rule, only where the argument is professional. Such a reduction in economic activity, especially in the euro area, was not announced in time by any institution. Let me remind you, even in critical times, predictions are ungrateful and unreliable. Two cases. In 2007, the economy grew significantly more than predicted. And let's move on. Two years later, in 2009, the decline was 8%. He surprised everything, cut us all the ground if I quote the statement of that time. However, the warnings were also given in the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, at the time of adoption of the 2013 budget. Director Umarja concludes with words that should not and should not be heard today. He says, "This is the scenario that we think at this point based on the assumptions that I presented at the beginning, most likely, but of course there is," and here I point out now, "the great danger that the economic situation will be at the end of this year" then thinks that 2012, "and above all at the end of next year", so pay attention, think of 2013, what we are looking at today, "a little different". In the budget then, despite objections, he prevailed, as today's modern term is, moderate optimism, and we have what we have on the table. And now there's something about income. What, though, escaped control in the planning process? I will only linger on those incomes, which I doubt, even in the rebalancing option, will be fully attainable. First, indirect taxes, i.e. taxes on consumption. First time. It is known that value added tax depends on consumption. This one's been falling, it's been falling for a while, and it's going down in trend. At least three reasons are for that. Pay policy, here we have two measures to remind the ZUJF, as well as this year's wage cuts in the public sector. Then there is the situation in the labour market, in the trend we have fewer employees, and not least by buying goods of a permanent nature. I mean cars, white technology, furniture, these data are accessible to everyone, or to the so-called precautionary saving effect that has occurred in our citizens and citizens. Let me add, the higher VAT rate introduced by this government will, in fact, in this year and probably also in the following year, "just compensate" for the fall in consumption. And a second time. Excesses that are the object of any government's wish, but if the data are correct, then there is already a lower tax yield for each type of energy. For those close to them, I refer to the effects of Laffer's curve or, according to the domestic, in litres, foreigners demand significantly less diesel. Smaller tides go into millions, into tens of millions, if not even into a hundred million. Let me continue with the corporate income tax, i.e. from the profits. For the same profit, it was logical to expect a decline in tax return in 2013 budgeting. We're dealing with successive reductions in rates, it went from 18, if you remember, to 17%, and very strong reliefs. As a result, the effective tax rate is deeply below the nominal, legal level. According to the method of accounting and payment, more than half of the decline in terms of realisation in 2012 is more than expected, but was overlooked by the planners of the previous government. And now I'm just running away from European funds. Although the first category of funds are linked to investment projects, I am not sure that we have full control of the draw. The numbers from January to May this year fully confirm my doubts. Somebody look at them. It is true, however, that relative parallel costs of investment then also fall with them. In this case, the budget is, unfortunately, balanced on its own, automatically balanced. Unfortunately, however, the European Union's withdrawal also depends on the readiness of projects that are not being prepared by the European Union – but by ourselves – and not on the numbers that we want to put in our budgets and in some promise. Viewed in full as regards tax revenues, we believe that the bottom has not yet been fully reached, we are thinking of the existing tax structure. What is the manoeuvre space for more efficient collection of taxes in terms of crisis, I am thinking of a grey economy, is not quite clear. Clearly, this one exists and may not be negligible. But income is part of the story. On the other hand, the same coin, on the expenditure side, will need to implement measures — this needs to be made very clear — supported by systematic reviews of public expenditure at all levels of the country, in all areas, including those with a public monopoly on inefficiencies and inefficiencies. What is at the heart of the budgetary debate today? Measures to promote growth. There were a lot of words, a lot of assertions and judgements on this subject in the debates. They were also different according to content. However, some initial assumptions or problems in this regard may not be disputed. Probably, and first of all, it's a very complicated, complicated and complex area. Secondly, the structure of public expenditure, naked, without additional information does not allow for a general conclusion on economic policy. You can see this in every textbook. Homely each expenditure also has economic consequences, especially in transitions and crises – and we are now living in both of us, so changes in public finances expenditure need to be interpreted with caution. The third issue is the priority order of the steps. We are faced with a response at the same time to the downturn of businesses, often due to market adaptation, on the other hand, we are facing a social problem due to unemployment, we are facing expenditure to promote exports. In short, we are faced with both legs standing in reality, with a dilemma, or, for example, running expenditure on education, for health care, for research and development, really contributing less to economic growth than investing in walls, socks or urban landmarks. My opinion is different. I think they contribute significantly more over the long term. You can make walls in 20 years if you leave education programs, you'll be doing a lot of damage in five years. What I am trying to say is that walking on the balance of revenue and budget expenditure alone is not enough. Not only the details, but also the key data are in Balance B, in the so-called Financial Claims and Investment Account. It shows the first steps of a different policy. These are loans to private companies through the Bank’s SID mechanism, the rehabilitation of businesses and the promotion of technological development projects through various forms of financial engineering. This is to ensure that funds are increased to make payments of guarantee and guarantee obligations, to increase capital shares in companies. So I expect state aid granted, which is planned to amount to approximately EUR 200 million. And we did not avoid, like the previous government, by showing the recapitalisation of banks in budget accounts, of course, by transferring bad assets from banks to a company for the management of claims. To that end, I think 1.2 billion assets have been reserved. Of course, this fact cannot be overlooked. In Slovenia, we have only a third of competing companies and one third of competing companies are developing. And a rapid turnaround, after the economic crisis gained new dimensions last year, is not expected. For this reason, the economy expects a different policy – and above all the country's regulation of business conditions – that the country does not, in particular, lose the opportunities it faces entirely. I am thinking about the various loan and development funds, the combination of budgetary banks and European funds. We hear about eco-regions and, of course, we read about options within the European Investment Bank. I get angry and wonder, especially when I read several times and in different places the sentence that there is a path to the extent of gaining funds more and more. No, what do we know, what we don't know, is the question that we're dealing with here. It is also noted that I have not talked extensively about the expenditure collected under the common roof by the social state today. This is not because there are fewer or even fewer differences in the scope of these expenditure than the debates in the National Assembly have shown, but it is necessary to say, after the labour crisis has been at work for at least half a decade, that the social state has a special role to play in it. Countries that have developed a modern form of social state are overcoming the crisis more easily, beating it faster and overcoming it less painfully. It's a rule no one threw away. Inadvertent interference with the social state is not even an extreme possible measure and social dumping is not a protected sign of Positive Slovenia. Returning to the point from which we left before the crisis, some of us have fallen, is unlikely or is unlikely today after six years. In the parliamentary group, we will propose a budget rebalance to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Potočnik. We have also concluded with the presentation of the parliamentary positions and are coming to a debate on the individual parts of the proposal for a rebalancing. I inform you that, as an individual part, the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing, a specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing and a plan for development programmes. To begin with, we are moving on to the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. I suppose he wants to discuss a lot of colleagues, so I am opening up the possibility of applying for a debate. Eight debates or debaters have been reported. Here you are, Mrs. Ludmila Novak, your turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u26	Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministries, welcome! Before, I listened well to our President of the Government, as of course you did, and she said they were working hard. I believe they work hard, but I wonder if all the measures they have put in place are even right. First of all, I'm worried about tax hikes. We all know that the tax box is empty, that it has to be filled in some way, but this increase in taxes must be fair, fair, evenly distributed, but in the measures announced we cannot approve of this, or we think that some parts of the population will be overburdened, hit, and that, sometimes I say, there may also be some revolutionary problems that I do not want or predict. As we know, the property tax, which will hit the countryside, the rural population, then we already have VAT, even though all the experts, the economists have predicted that this will be bad, we have introduced it. When I listen to Mr Starman, who is not here now, from the National List, I like to listen to him very much, because I think he has good ideas, experience, views that are also quite consistent with my own, but always complete, we will support him as if he had forgotten everything he used to say and supported something completely different. I am so sorry that, even on the Committee on the Economy, when we have dealt with the aid laws of companies in which we will not protect these aids, and with some other measures. Why am I saying this? With its proposed measures, the government has not gained sufficient confidence to believe that these measures are being implemented in order to ensure that the burden of the crisis is fairly distributed across the population and that it will actually promote economic growth. The reduction of investment is certainly not conducive to economic growth, and, on the other hand, economists expect the right environment, administrative obstacles, to reduce all this as quickly as possible, so that the government will work primarily to ensure that economists can do their job. I am also saddened to learn that some speakers are very fond of citing or opposing Europe. Angela Merkel, a conservative leader of Europe and the like, is also frequently mentioned. I believe so, and even economists say that it is trade, business with these countries, such as Germany, that leads us forward. There accounts are paid on the day of the currency, not like us, when many accounts are unpaid and trigger negative chain reactions. Some would like to point us back at the Balkans. I have nothing against the Balkans. Our friendly countries are there, but the poor thing is hard to help. There they move jobs because it is a cheaper labour force, but we cannot focus all our trade and economy on the South, but how much cooperation with the West is needed. Why do I also say that this government will not gain confidence in supporting these measures? It bothers me, too, or I do not think that it is the right measure to violently unite the congregations. We do have a large number of congregations, but in many developed countries, such as Austria, France, and other countries, they have even more. Why hit something that works right now? Over 70% of investments are made through municipalities. And that means economic growth, that means development. And why do we now force ourselves to change something that we don't need right now? Of course, we can introduce rationalisations, we can introduce measures that will help municipalities, but not undermine something that works well. And it is the investments in the municipalities that promote the economic development that we all say we want. I've already mentioned helping businesses. I agree that companies need to be helped primarily in such a way as to be able to work and help those who have a perspective that is development-oriented and that they are doing well. I strongly doubt that we will only be able to maintain certain jobs by granting unsecured aid. Perhaps for a short period of time, but for a long time, such companies need to be substantially reorganised, to change their business and thus make sense of this support to businesses. More than that, I am concerned, as are many other Slovenian citizens, whether this aid is granted to companies with a perspective, or on the basis of certain privileges, political ties, untransparent, unjustifiable and destructive long-term. We also support the sale of companies in New Slovenia, but not at all times and not at all. Here, too, we fear that it will go too far under the table, if we say so, also selling Mercator in a non-transparent way, and all of this weakens the reputation of the state and also the doubts of citizens, whether this government is actually working in the right direction. Previously, Mr Starman also spoke about lowering standards. Of course, it will also be necessary to lower standards both in education, in health care and elsewhere, but we need to be careful here, we also need to implement smart measures here, and also here the unions will have to think about the future and not at any cost to preserve or advocate certain standards that we cannot afford. So I say we have to amputate the finger to keep the leg or even the body. If we are talking about solutions that should primarily be reflected in this balance, then there should certainly be additional resources available here, as much as possible for the implementation of European projects. We know the financial perspective is running out, and we're talking about how we're not going to be able to draw on this money. When Austria joined the European Union, I was at a meeting and asked why they were so successful at drawing on European money. And they said, "Simple recipe, we've focused all the state money on projects co-financed by European money." If we take the money here, then on the other hand, we will not draw what we can get from the European cash register. I would also like to draw attention to something that our citizens often point to. They expect the operation of the rule of law and, above all, the return of that money that has been stolen, which has been granted by unsecured credits, so that, if we say so, around a bad bank, the resolution of the bank is concerned and we expect this to take place in a transparent manner and that we will get responsible for these problems or irregularities, that there will also be some consequences, that we will also expose the culprits and that someone will therefore have to return the assets. Now we all cover these bank holes, cover them several times, and it is not right for those responsible not to bear the consequences. Financial discipline, respect for laws and, above all, avoiding ideological conflicts and greater mutual respect, respect for institutions and our mutual respect, all of this is necessary to give citizens more hope and that we will all believe that our policy does lead us out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, welcome. Budget or budget rebalancing is always a reflection of the priority of each government, in which case now the governments of Alenka Bratušek. The balance that we are considering today reveals the priorities or directions in which we will go as Slovenia, of course. When we listened at the beginning of today’s session, President Alenko Bratušek, we could say that John Janša is also guilty of shining the sun today. I think you'll have to look slowly at yourself and your team and your priorities, especially in your knowledge and abilities. You expect that around EUR 500 million will be less income mainly from corporate income tax and less from the European Union. The first is still in some way to understand, but the reduction in funds from the European Union at that time is, in my opinion, a completely incomprehensible measure. If ever, it is now necessary to step on the gas and get as much European money as possible. It is interesting, however, that in the field of expenditure, you keep the amount of such expenditure to yourself. You have stopped reducing public sector costs, the ambition of the former government has been a gradual reduction in public sector costs, and that is probably why we have received strikes, protests and widespread discontent from people. But if you believe there's nothing you need to do in this area, you're wrong. You got a very good earring from Brussels a few days ago, I'd call it. Or if I say so after school, you've been reprimanded before you're expelled. But not the actual exclusion, but by October things will have to be put in place, so in the direction that Janša announced last year. With this balance, you will do nothing — except preserve social peace. As long as Mr Struckle is silent, this will be good for your government, but absolutely this will be bad for Slovenia. Warnings from Brussels are quite expected. We are only talking about higher taxes, which is the easiest and, of course, the least popular route, but at the same time you forget that the number of taxpayers in the state treasury should be increased. If we are to consolidate our public finances in a sustainable and successful manner, it will be necessary to reduce expenditure. The number of payers will be raised by increased production. More and more economists say that the economy needs only peace in times of crisis from the government and that it introduces incentives rather than introducing new taxes. Companies need a stable economic policy, and our public sector is simply too large, too large and we spend significantly too much tax money on it. I believe that you agree with this, and I believe that the coalition Members and Members agree. A prominent Slovenian economist said days ago that the biggest relief for taxpayers would be if the country had abolished huge financial support to banks in the form of recapitalisation. This would be the biggest relief for taxpayers. But no, we're moving on. You do what you do. I think we're running out of time. And you will fall to the real ground in the future. Commissioner Olli Rehn is experiencing too little fiscal effort. I would call this a very significant quote, which is also reflected in today's budget rebalancing that we are dealing with. When I listened to the position of President of the Government, I got the feeling that the current government was making every effort to apologize for why something could not be done instead of constructively doing something. Unfortunately, when a person listens, at least when I listen to the introduction, I get this feeling. As long as everything that is going on in Slovenia is the European Union and Janez Janša, we will not be any better and we will only sink deeper and deeper. If you allow me to quote from the forum where they are accompanying this debate today, someone wrote: "When we realize that we have to change something with ourselves, it will certainly be the first step towards solving the problem." Finally, allow me something else about the reduction of resources in the area of protection and rescue. No matter what the specific part of the budget is then, I think it is right to mention here that I was surprised and at the same time sad at the fact that for a little less than EUR 2 million, we are dependent on what we can do tomorrow – each of us – for a little less than EUR 2 million. It is a reduction of funds for firefighters, where prevention, operational and equipment will be poor. On the committee, we talked about making an amendment, but when I heard that the coalition was in line and that you would only support coordinated amendments, it seemed to me in some way an insult to firefighters or those working in the Protection and Rescue Authority to give them some false hope that you would be or that we would all provide these funds back together. That's why we didn't decide to table an amendment. It's too bad you had your chance, but you failed. A few months from now, I'm sure we'll be witnessing a new rebalancing and then we won't be able to plead against the previous government. Then you'll run out of that excuse. I will certainly not support such a budget rebalance as today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u30	Really funny, I don't know who had the chance, but it didn't turn out. It is already the case that the rebalans are usually unwanted, since before they take up the asset, at least in recent history it has been proved that no rebalancing has been added. So that's something you don't want. This time, however, the balance has another specificity: we are working on a budget rebalance drawn up by a renegade government. So, for this rebalancing, I could somehow say that he is a worm, that he is unrealistic, which I find more funny than that, but the fact that there is a coalition on the boards of the current opposition is a real coalition that has been preparing this budget, which has been putting words into our coalition Members' language, how we are going to discuss how we are going to criticise the budget that he is unrealistic, that he is unreal. You were all worried about how we'd discuss it, but that's all true. Sorry, that's right. We'd like to be taught how to run a government that we've missed. You know, the media likes to deal with the Prime Minister very much, they have a lot to say about her leopard pattern on her lap, that her English is not Oxford, and I can certainly tell you that the budget is the thing she masters. Here between us, between you and somewhere else, there's probably no one who knows more about what he's talking about. That's why I absolutely trust this balance. The current government therefore has twice as much work to do. In the mathematical language, it's called "followed" by a strict and hard rebalancing. We have to view the Treasury as even, as the wallet from which we take the money, finally, the total amount is drawn below the line. It is true that we have been selectively and selectively discussing individual parts of the budget on the working bodies, and finally the number must come out. I will touch on two areas: the economy and infrastructure, where the largest amount or maximum number is taken, 62 million in the economy and 87 million in the area of infrastructure. It should be said that we are not talking about some long budget period, but only about some 6 months. If I touch the infrastructure. Infrastructural projects for these six months, when we cut money, are certainly not so much reported as to have a devastating impact on the country. I'm sure of it. So that's the first aspect. The second aspect of my debate will not touch the numbers, because I am sure that many of you have prepared these exact numbers. Maybe I should consider the following. From the economy, it is still customary for us to rationalise the costs, reduce the labour force, adjust the business processes so that we can survive on the market. If you remember in 2004, when we happily, solemnly joined the European Union family, in my former company we fired a huge number of workers, we lost a lot of committees, we had to rationalize a lot of business processes so that we could survive. In addition, to remind you again, we were struck by the then leadership under the tactics of Mr Andre Lošin, who made a grave mistake in building the Russian logistics centre of Čechov. Here we go again. I also see the potential for synergies in the field of state infrastructure and economy. For example, the merger of the port of Koper and the Slovenian Railways, in both areas costs are being reduced in the balance sheet or budget. In the event of a merger between the two economic operators, both companies could be able to carry on relatively normal business. For example, the organisation of work and the reorganisation of both business entities could have some synergistic effects. To remind you, I have already reminded your former Minister of Montenegro of the debt of the country 134 million, which he has to Slovenian railways. Slovenian railways have long been committed to obtaining a capital share in Luka Koper, which means that these two companies could join together and both could operate rationally with less cost. Why am I saying this? Because the country can be a similar example to two economic operators, we can combine the same and essentially save costs. Slovenia is very small on the European map and there is only a small peak on the world map. Thus, in the present case, it could be seen how certain millions may be missing in the state treasury with good reorganisation. So the balance is not that critical. What's going to catch up with us is coming very soon, and this is the 2014 budget. I support the 2013 budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The National Reform Programme and the Stability Pact were adopted by the National Assembly at the beginning of this government and are followed by the following important document. In addition to the 2013 budget, the 2013 budget rebalancing document is now an extremely important document. It means amending the 2013 adopted budget adopted by the previous Government. We are therefore continuing the continuity of work, but we also want to look at which items in the 2013 budget are those that show that the 2013 budget is unrealistic. This was discussed today by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. The prepared balance is based on real frameworks, taking into account macroeconomic indicators and actual planning of expected revenues. It is a fact that we take into account what can actually be done by the end of 2013 what can be done in the budget lines. Consolidation of public finances, the resolution of the banking system and the extension of the economy and the improvement of corporate governance and the withdrawal of the country from the economy are the priorities of this government. This is how the Minister of Finance presented himself today. Our objectives are – and also the objectives of Positive Slovenia: financial stability, fiscal consolidation and growth measures. The government has already taken steps in the area of public finances, which is not enough for 100 days of the government's work to be so harsh and so critical of the opposition's assessments as have been made today. One hundred days of government work, and the ratings are very sharp and very critical. It takes longer to show the effects of the measures, concrete results. There has been a lot of talk in recent years about young people, about educated people leaving Slovenia to seek employment, to look for a better future and, above all, to find a way to survive. They still prefer their country, but it is a very positive fact that young people are the priorities of this government. Young people are not a problem today, but they are a solution for Slovenia, our prime minister said. The proposal for a financial framework for 2014-2020 focuses on youth employment. Of course, I see the solution in investments, because we are investing at least EUR 2 billion in the balance sheet for investments. Projects need to be brought to this stage in order to make the most of European cohesion funds. All those who were already in the government before this government, both in the previous government and in the previous government, were obliged to bring the projects so far as to allow the government for the first month of operation to tell which projects and which cohesion funds could be used immediately. Obviously this is not the case, so I understand the critical assessments, and many times today the opposition Members, what is wrong and why all European funds cannot be used. Of course, it will have to work towards reducing expenditure, but not to the detriment of public health, not to the detriment of public education and not to the detriment of security in our country. We also have concrete measures to help the economy, for more than €700 million in reimbursements. We need to ensure sustained and effective support for the economy also through recovery. The rehabilitation of the banking system is a necessary measure which will restore to the economy the support that businesses urgently need for ongoing financial operations and new investment projects also in the field of research and development, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, through the measures it already represents, as well as the new opportunities it has for yesterday's visit to the Minister of Economy in Brussels, we also see light in the area of support for the economy, entrepreneurship, crafts and great opportunities for tourism. Most people think that we must not raise taxes and that we must not interfere with human rights, but also when adopting a tax on cadastral income, including other taxes that are currently in public debates, I am confident that we will find a compromise. The Committee on Finance, which discussed cadastral income, we have listened together, and together we have found that certain measures would not be the right thing to do. As the Minister for Agriculture has said, as long as the land is a working machine for wheat, it would not be right to go into real estate taxation. In Positive Slovenia, too, we think that those who by their own efforts, with their own personal engagement and work, such as farmers, such as people in other activities, also trade activities where they produce and generate income with their own hands, pay if we say that it is right to find compromises here, to think carefully and to find solutions. However, these people also agree with us that there is a need to fill the budget for the means to provide education and education for all children, all people, public health for all people, and also to provide social security. We want to ensure peace, trust and financial security for people with decent pensions, maternity benefits and unemployment benefits. The balance ensures people's peace. Speaking of pensions, it must be acknowledged that in Positive Slovenia we were a constructive opposition, we talked to the then Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and supported the pension reform. However, those who were back, even before a term of office in the National Assembly, we know that the already prepared pension reform would be even better for all of us and for our people, it would be less painful, it would be less necessary to implement the measures that we all now had to take together. However, we also supported the pension reform at the time as the opposition party. We wish that pensions will continue to come, that people will continue to have rights and, in particular, that the injustices caused by the Public Finance Balance Act will be removed – because without saying that the ZUJF is fully infamous, but the Constitutional Court has stated that it has not been well thought out – that we will also be looking for solutions in the preparation of the 2014 budget to ensure a reduction of the public deficit below 3% by 2015, by offering the resolution of the banking system, including the urgent need to support the economy, including the large infrastructure projects that this government cannot launch within a hundred days if it has not been able to implement within a hundred days of such maturity. The third development axis from Koroška to Bela krajina, the second track of the railway, the upgrading of the pier in Luka Koper, the so-called third pier, as well as other projects are those which we believe and see in Positive Slovenia, but also in connection with the preservation of jobs, with new jobs and also in 2014 more support for the operation of investment cycles of municipalities. In this rebalancing, we were unable to listen to the congregations as much as we would like to. Some seem to like to be ashamed of the capital of Slovenia, Ljubljana, and to be seen many times, but the capital of Slovenia is also a crossroads in the area of public administration, including in the area of governance of the country. And today they are local communities, namely, municipalities, development generators. In Positive Slovenia, we will try to make sure that in the 2014 budget, everything that has been taken away from the municipalities by the previous government or by the previous governments to try to balance these matters will be rectified. As far as fire, protection and rescue are concerned, firefighters say: "If the rebalancing for 2013 will reduce the issue, and in this way we will maintain social peace in the country, keep pensions, continue to provide public education, public health, we will also suffer this year because we want to contribute together to the further development of Slovenia. However, if we are talking about ecology, water, air, land, it is certainly an important opportunity, which has obviously not been sufficiently exploited by the use of cohesion European grants with major European cohesion projects, waste management, clean environment care, environmental protection. Here we can be among those in the European Union who are already one step ahead. We have major projects that have been approached by local communities. Let me mention some. I am sorry that certain agreements and matters have not been implemented more expeditiously, but I hope that they will now be implemented more quickly and that we will all have wider support together, including the hearings of the competent ministries. Let me mention some. In the area of Dolenjska, Posavja and White Krajina it is the CERO project, the second phase. I'm sorry that this project hasn't accelerated since last year. It is divided into 20 municipalities, and it is an important cohesion project for RCERO Ljubljana, from the Ljubljana Valley, to the municipalities all against Primorska. It's 34 congregations. An important, big project for the environment in the Republic of Slovenia is extremely important. I could still count it. When we talk about specific work, individual amendments, I will also support the amendment that speaks about the promotion of tourism, promotion of Slovenia, including the promotion of the economy in Slovenia, including the amendment to regulate Roma settlements, for all that needs to be done, and probably because of a few cuts in resources, the local communities will not be able to do. The balance of the budget is not a pearl, but the balance of the budget is necessary. Should there be any further need for a rebalancing this year, we will, of course, support it as a coalition, but we will coordinate it first. The balance of the budget means that some who sit behind me, by my side, on the sides and led the government, believe that in good faith, when they were preparing the 2013 budget, they believed they had done the best. Believe us, too, that we believe that at a given time this rebalancing, which is not a pearl, is certainly necessary and at a given time realistic, on those grounds that we will do what we have to do by 2013. We will, however, seek to achieve fiscal consolidation, public financial stability and, above all, growth. We need it, people expect it from us, and no one sees whether we're a coalition or an opposition. Even if this government does not do well, it will not do well, and in some ways the opposition will also take an ugly look at it. As the Prime Minister has said today, these measures are our actions, not only ours and yours, but ours, because the Republic of Slovenia is one and our common country. I'll support the budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With such a kind speech, with the sob voice of my colleague Renata Brunskole, I will not allow myself to be attacked, but nevertheless. We all believe, like my colleague said, that we're doing our best. Do you know what the problem is? That the result of the 20-year best work is a bankrupt country. I did my best, too. Believe me, in my company, it went bankrupt. And here's the problem. We don't have the results, we're missing the results. And for the best of purposes, it's a paved path to hell. The intentions may be good, but the results so far are catastrophic. The budget must be coordinated, public debt must be reduced, the arrogance of officials must be restrained and supervised, otherwise we will go bankrupt. "People need to learn to work again instead of living off state support." These aren't my thoughts, these are the thoughts of Cicera, fifty-five years before we count. The Roman Empire had therefore failed because it did not take into account what we do not consider. Although we have coordinated the budget, what did we do at the expense of the debt? We dug an even bigger hole. At the end of the year, we're not going to have a billion and a half, good that this is going to be recorded, but two billion minus. A simple calculation says two billion minus. Just like we said, we're not going to invest in the CoCo bond. See how fast we did that? Larry Fari. We don't even believe what we're saying. We're just saying that we're still where we are for a while. Wrong, irresponsible. Public debt needs to be reduced, said Cicero. Where do we reduce it if we increase it? I would not talk about the bureaucracy of the country because the architect of the public administration has been debirocratic about this country for a decade, but we are increasingly liberalised. Even in Brussels, that's what they're telling us. And of course it would be good to stop talking and do a little more work. It will be necessary to work and create and not expect the country to do anything for us. Sometimes it's good to take a book into your hands. Recently, the book Travel to the Decay, how governments and central banks destroyed the world and why the worst is yet to come. Yes, the worst is yet to come. You know why I know that? And that's what I experienced at my own company. The company is only a mini-state with all attributes, with all characteristics. When we didn't take timely action, when I didn't find out, we went bankrupt. Do you know what the difference is? Again, I'm carrying the consequences. A 20-year job in a material sense failed. Thank God I stayed alive and in my head normal. In the next ten years, I will re-create. But who's going to be responsible for us bankrupting the country? What government officer? What minister? Look what it says here. Governments cannot create prosperity, they can only create an atmosphere that promotes or stifles entrepreneurship and prosperity. What are we doing with this budget? We're suffocating an economic initiative. Increase in taxes – what else is this to reduce the economic initiative? Of course, we are destroying what the budget is full of. We haven't met that before today. Not that the three of us will come to us, because she won't even come to us. We are so marginal and insignificant that we are already walking in Brussels, where they tell us what to do. It's our condition. This budget is one sad creation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! Criticisms, the Slovenian People's Party warned that the government's proposal for a 2013 budget rebalancing, which greatly reduces the expected revenue of the state budget, but at the same time increases the expenditure, is absolutely under-ambitious and we cannot say that it is moving towards consolidation of public finances. This has also been confirmed by the European Commission. The mere fact that Slovenia was unannounced at the last meeting of the euro area finance ministers suggests that the moves taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of public finances are not in line with the national reform programme and the Stability Pact transmitted by Slovenia to the European Commission. More than increasing the deficit, it is concerned that the current proposal for a budget rebalancing prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not move towards balancing the revenue of the state budget with expenditure, as there are virtually no new measures on the public spending side. There is a fear that a new budget for the rebalancing will be needed in the coming autumn due to the deviation from the commitments made. In the Slovenian People's Party, we understand to some extent the difficulties of the current government coalition in the implementation of the economic policy, which was conducted last year within the framework of the former Government of the Republic of Slovenia and which should continue this year, since the biggest current parties were still sharp critics of the same policy. However, regardless of the past, we have been confirmed that more needs to be done in the area of consolidation of public finances. We all know that the Slovenian economy cannot bear new burdens, and we are also bound by the promise of the European Commission that two-thirds of the measures will be implemented in the area of expenditure. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the time has come when the entire Slovenian policy must assume responsibility for the financial situation in the country, whether it is a coalition or an opposition party. No one, however, must collect or challenge political points at the expense of urgent measures, which are largely unpopular in the public, but, unfortunately, inevitable if we want to preserve the financial sovereignty of the Slovenian state. The difficulty of refinancing Slovenian debt and the volume of financial resources allocated to interest, more than 10% of the budget revenue foreseen, exceeded the critical point and require immediate active action. The planned deficit is already well above the investments financed from the budget, which means that the state is currently very much in charge of current consumption. That is why we have proposed yesterday, and we also propose today that the 2013 draft budget rebalancing, which is in the legislative process, should be rejected at this 16th regular meeting of the National Assembly in order to set up a special working group to prepare a new 2013 budget rebalancing proposal, which would be composed of representatives of all, I stress, all parliamentary political parties, both coalitions and opposition. The parties behind closed doors would jointly seek solutions in the coming days by finding existing reserves in different areas of government spending and jointly agree on measures to reduce the budgetary deficit. A coordinated new proposal for the 2013 budget rebalancing could thus be returned to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and adopted following an emergency procedure at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, perhaps within the next week. The single support to the complementary and ambitious budget, which would involve all political parties and include a significantly smaller public deficit, would undoubtedly send an extremely positive signal both to the Slovenian public that politics is still in control of the situation, as well as to the whole of Europe and the world, that Slovenia is not going to be able to reply. Above all, this could prevent the loss of the financial sovereignty of the country that threatens us. I therefore invite you to reject this proposal for a rebalancing, as some of the coalition are concerned, as we have heard the concerns of Mr Potočnik, Mr Starman, whom I especially appreciate as an expert. Let's listen to them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. Here you go, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, Secretary of State and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Quite a few words have already been said about the budget today, including what the budget actually represents, whether it is just a bookkeeping document that is always coming out or a strategic developmental direction for the government. Then, of course, today we are talking about the strategic and developmental direction of this government, whatever. Whether it always comes out or always doesn't work out, but if we have to make a debt, if we have a deficit, then it doesn't work out, regardless of the book balance sheets and no matter how the numbers are redistributed. On the one hand, we have revenue, on the other hand, we have expenditure this time, and here the strategy or economic policy of the current government is visible. In my opinion, however, it is not ambitious and even too optimistic in order for Slovenia to come out of the crisis. However, this strategic document, regardless of whether we are talking about the budget rebalancing, which in Slovenian means amending the budget, because new circumstances have arisen because the previous budget has been obsolete because it has been misdefined, however you wish to say it, we are also talking about this correction, this is a whole new document and expresses the strategic definition of the government of any government, and this budget of this government, Alenka Bratušek. And of course we can talk about it from different angles, with different eyes. For example, from the perspective of fiscal consolidation, from the perspective of competitiveness and development, from the perspective of what this budget will bring to citizens and citizens. And if you'll allow me, some of it will bring anyone anything. On the one hand, if we speak from the perspective of fiscal consolidation, public financial consolidation will not be achieved here. According to my assessment, what we have actually written in the Stability Pact will not be achieved, because the expenditure is simply too much, given the revenues that we achieve here In other words, in the coming weeks or months I think another correction will have to be made if you want to, and to adjust this budget to the actual state and to what we have written in the Stability Pact. However, we are part of the European Union, we are part of the countries that have the euro, and therefore we have a responsibility, and finally we are bound by the rules of the European Union, the European Commission. When making commitments, they must be realized. And that's what we're alerted to if we don't. Just as the previous government has pledged to reduce the deficit in 2013, the European Commission, on the proposal of this government, has decided to extend the period in which this deficit needs to be reduced by 2015, but with very precise steps, how, when and so on. And this on the expenditure side, it's quite obvious, we haven't reached it. It has simply increased this deficit and, in particular, is used for current matters, in other words, in the area of expenditure, in the field of running expenditure, wages and so on, it is not adequately defined in terms of what we can achieve, what revenue we can achieve and what we can actually generate. For this reason, I think another step will have to be taken further. If we look at fiscal consolidation, then we can say another correction. If we speak from the point of view of the competitiveness of the economy, why are we actually working on the budget and pointing to the economic strategy of the country and economic policy? The first objective is to come out of the crisis. The first objective is to stop negative economic growth, to stop spending from falling, from investment, personal to state growth and so on, which are signs of a crisis. And if we speak in terms of competitiveness, there are no measures in this budget to increase the competitiveness of the economy. More. The economy will be additionally taxed, and the economy will pay more, given the revenue generated, if we are already talking about the projected property tax. I think there will have to be a very serious reflection here, and it will be necessary to find out how those funds used by the economy, including land, buildings and so on, used by the economy to create added value will not be taxed again and will not be taxed twice and so on. And not only the economy in a narrower sense, but also the economy in a broader sense, but also the whole of agriculture and also all those who actually create it. Because a double tax will already be paid in one way or another and it will have to be considered whether this tax will be deducted from the corporate tax or will be eliminated. The burden on the economy here will be higher and competitiveness will actually be lower from this point of view. Burdens in terms of higher duties for the country. And if we are talking about competitiveness, because only greater competitiveness can contribute to us coming out of the crisis or being an extremely important condition, then we can say that this budget, according to my personal assessment, does not bring about increased competitiveness and that the Slovenian economy would create greater added value and that Slovenia would also come faster from the crisis. If, of course, we are talking more about the economy, then today we can see that money is actually running low. It is simply running out of money, it is running out of money for spending, it is also running out of money for social transfers, even for payments to the economy and so on and so on. What is it, then, that can contribute to the competitiveness of the economy? What is it that can pull the country out of the crisis? That's capital. Does this budget create the basis for more capital to enter Slovenia? I don't think so, because in the framework of this strategy here are not just numbers, there is actually the whole philosophy of the country, the whole operation of the country, there is nothing that would contribute to more capital coming into Slovenia. What's that? Competitive conditions, security and credibility. We have had a number of projects in recent decades, and in all governments, if you want, which would be created in Slovenia, which would contribute to greater added value, they eventually failed. And even in the previous and previous government, the number of such projects was considerable, and they failed when the final decision had to be made. Today Mercator and I are repeating this story again. And foreign investors or domestic investors, any, if they do not have credible information, if they know that such sales are made in a non-transparent way, then they do not have confidence in the country and then there will be no additional capital increase. What may now be happening in some areas is, of course, commendable. In other words, the whole philosophy today and the entire strategy of this government is not going in the direction of raising more capital – but it is lacking in Slovenia. It is insufficient for current transfers, for investment transfers and so on. We need to set a goal. If we look at this budget from the point of view or with the eyes of the citizen and the citizen – what does it bring? It brings higher taxes, also brings more complex taxes and brings on the other hand such a strange philosophy in tax collection, when, on the basis of citizens and citizens lashing each other, they do certain tax checks or whatever. This is possible only one small segment where this can be done, but otherwise it is necessary to have the whole philosophy of tax collection and also of the collapse of the public sector. One such contraction is certainly a delay in the merger of the tax and customs administration, regardless of the fact that we no longer have customs officers at the border with Croatia today and it would be useful to actually do so. Even from the point of view of citizens and citizens, this budget and this philosophy also represent a greater burden. Increased value added tax payment and, of course, lower consumption. If we are talking about increasing consumption, we need to look at consumption at lower tax rates, which can also generate more revenue, because once the rate increases end and it is no longer too much of the revenue that we actually get from such taxes. From this point of view, I would say that this budget means stagnation on the spot. On the one hand, in particular on the development side, there are no development views, and on the other hand there is no action on the expenditure side. When it is announced, perhaps only informationally, that there will be a further need to cut into certain transfers, expenditure and so on, the entire Slovenian public will wake up, in particular all newspapers, television programs, and actually a forecast, for example, as the Minister of Finance has announced a reduction in pensions, condemned in fact to some failure. However, one day we will have to face the fact that, on the basis of such a policy, we will lose money. The money's gonna run out. Or for pensions or for social transfers or for development, I think for current needs. For this reason, I expect this government to actually look at the strategic orientations that will drive the country out of this crisis, which will make the country more competitive, more successful, and thus gain more revenue. If we are now talking about individual segments and also about the discussions of colleagues and colleagues here, then of course we must say that on the one hand there are also statements that public spending needs to be reduced and on the other hand we cannot reduce public health resources, public education, we cannot reduce pension funds, we cannot reduce investment funds, we have to fix the ZUJF, and the ZUJF has been too much and so on. And here, I'm sorry, there's a duality. You cannot list everything and say how we will reduce public spending, and then all areas will be listed how you will not reduce public spending anywhere. I'm sorry. You'll be able to lower public spending somewhere. I am talking about the debates of my colleague Brunskola, where we are actually talking about the fact that everything can't be the same as it was, and on the other hand, we are talking fictitiously about reducing public spending, because this public consumption is going to go down on its own. There will be no more debt and no more money. But then she'll shrink from herself, and that's what I'm afraid of this year. Unless there are certain structural changes. And if we are talking about structural changes, we also need to say structural changes in the education system. My heart hurts when I watch shows and watch young people go abroad to work. We can look at this from the point of view of leaving, from the point of view of personal decisions, some are happy, some are unhappy, and we can also watch why this is happening. It happens because we have structural graduates or those who perform a master's degree or doctorate, one that is not tailored to our market needs. Unfortunately, we do not need 15 thousand lawyers, 10,000 journalists, communicators and so on in Slovenia today. We just have some job opportunities for so many and so many people every year. However, we need more engineers, but this structure on the education system is not actually changing. Nothing happens. They're still the biggest admissions to social colleges, and we still don't know what and where these graduates are going and how they're going to get a job. On the other hand, those who do technical colleges do, yes, and for those who do, there is room in the world, and for those who do, there is room in Europe. For computers, space is today in Europe and for engineers as well. There will probably be some structural shifts to be made here. We probably have too many socialists here today, and that's what needs to be said. That's what people need to be told to know what to do. And if we are now assessing this budget also from the point of view of drawing on European funds, this has already been discussed, I think that there should actually be a much greater effort here today to actually draw on these funds. For example, we have a foreign investor and this project by a foreign investor could also be financed by the European Commission, by the European Union. He'd come to Ljubljana. The choice is between Ljubljana, Zagreb and Vienna. In Zagreb they give him a free business space or a free land where he can set up a business space. In Vienna, I would get this for 30 euros, in Ljubljana it costs more than 100 euros per square meter. Where will he decide? And here I think that full coordination must be made between the municipalities, between the state, between the ministries, how to actually make projects so that foreigners or locals, any one, can revive this economy. And it is necessary to look at what a country offers, for example Slovakia, which is our competitor, however, together in the European Union, to foreign investors. We have made the system administratively required, bureaucratic and non-transparent. And strangers don't know where to turn, nor where to go. And when they overcome all these bureaucratic obstacles, which we are constantly removing and which Minister Virant here is always removing, they are always bigger, and transparency is null and void, and in the end, it is easy to make a decision to go. We've had a lot of these cases. And we could always do this under the cover of anyone, including national interest. And we said, because we don't like him, they'll be domestic. But we're in a moment when the money's running out. So I would like, and also suggest to the Government, to make a more ambitious investment budget and a more ambitious plan on the expenditure side, not an increase, but a reduction in expenditure. It is now time for something to change, and for some amendments to actually fix this in the direction of the warnings given by the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Shircel. Mr Aljoša Jerič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! Initially, I would like to remind everyone present that we are talking today about the rebalancing rather than the budget adopted in November 2012. So the balance we have before us is necessary. It is needed to move away from the planned deficit in the budget prepared by the previous government. Managing this deficit is one of the key objectives that the Government must pursue in order to achieve the lowest possible cost of borrowing and the overall international credibility of our country. And if I use the metaphor that at this point this government and this coalition are putting out the fire that has been fuelled by the mix of governments' policies and the international crisis, then I can find that fire represents the unsustainable cost of our debt, and the water with which we put out this fire is balanced expenditure control. With regard to the obvious fact that the Government has done nothing on the revenue side, I would like to invite those who say that they will be saved for the 2014 budget rebalancing, which will be the product of this government and these coalitions. So once again, this government and this coalition are just putting out the fire they inherited. As colleague Potočnik said in his presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, there will be a significant revision of public financial expenditure in the preparation of the 2014 budget rebalancing, including with a view to more efficient and efficient spending, in particular with a focus on measures to start the economy. That is why I will support the 2013 budget rebalancing proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Just a moment, the secretary of state in this circle made a statement. Here you go, Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to some of the statements we have heard so far regarding the proposal for a rebalancing. First of all, as far as the revenue of the state budget is concerned. These decrease by 527 million and a half, depending on what was planned by the budget adopted. There are two reasons for this reduction. One reason is that macroeconomic circumstances have deteriorated and another is that the revenues were planned too optimistly or were planned, but no measures have been taken to implement these revenues. For example, in the area of value added tax, €70 million was planned with the proposal to turn certain lower rates into a general value added tax rate, but this has not happened. The increase in excise duties on electricity has also not been realized, and the sale of excise goods has fallen and this has not been taken into account in the planning of the adopted budget. With regard to revenue, much has been said today about how we are increasing the burden of the economy and how, in fact, the adopted or proposed balance is based solely and solely on consolidation on the revenue side of the budget. I have to say, it's not like that. The main action on the revenue side is to raise VAT rates in the estimated value of EUR 100 million, which is also a comparatively legal review, a measure that has the least negative impact on economic growth and is a measure that has been served in the past by a number of other European governments that have had to take care of the consolidation of public finances. Others, some EUR 20 million of additional revenue or revenue increases, represent the effects of increasing court fees, increasing the annual duty on motor vehicles, and introducing a lotto lucky tax or luck to play classical gambling. All these measures bring some €120 million of financial impact on the revenue side of the budget. There was talk of a property tax, an increase in corporate income tax. These measures are not proposed by the government in 2013 and have no impact on the proposed budget balance. We have also heard that the budgetary balance is focused only on actions on the revenue side of the budget. Let me remind you that on the expenditure side of the budget, it was necessary to provide for 350 million additional expenditure which were not planned in the adopted budget. It has already been mentioned 140 million on the side of transfers to the pension register. There were 122 million in interest mentioned. It should also be noted that expenditure on public sector salaries - and under the public sector, I do not only understand state administrations, but also the whole public health system, the whole public and school system and all other activities belonging to the public sector - have been reduced by between 10 and 15 % in the adopted budget, but this reduction has not been supported by measures that could also give rise to such reductions. The discussion was that nothing had been done in the area of public sector wages. However, it is worth mentioning that additional austerity measures in this area agreed with the unions have brought additional financial effects or additional financial savings to EUR 108.5 million this year. If this agreement were not concluded, an additional EUR 112 million and not EUR 4 million should be allocated to pay in the national budget, as we are actually providing in the budget balance. When all these measures are aggregated, we can find that, irrespective of the fact that revenues remain at about the same level as the budget adopted and expenditure is reduced, the fiscal effort with the budget balance is divided into one third of the measures on the revenue side and two thirds of the measures on the expenditure side of the budget. It is true, however, that, due to errors or forgetfulness in the planning of the adopted budget, this impact on the expenditure side is hidden. We can talk about consolidation of public finances when we have real numbers ahead of us. And if the numbers we are talking about are not real, they need to be made real first and then we can start off with measures to move forward, which has already been announced in the introductory address. There was a lot of talk about the cuts in investment funds and investment transfers. Let me serve here only with the information that 740 million euros of expenditure were realised from this title in 2012 is slightly rounded. More than a billion € 160 million are earmarked in the budget balance for these purposes. Much of the investment funds are made from European funds. There is also a substantial additional effort in this area, given what has been achieved over the past years, but we know how the spending of European funds is essentially planned at a time when the current perspective is concluded. It is easy to see how much resources need to be absorbed and split into the remaining years, without looking at whether the projects are ready or whether the drawdown is real or not. In the preceding year, a little over €500 million was pumped, last year was extremely good, €770 million, and for this year, more than €1 billion and €100 million are still expected to be absorbed after the budget rebalancing. It was also mentioned that the State is in breach of the law by reducing expenditure on aid programmes under the development aid law to Pomur. In this regard, it must be said that all the commitments made are covered, that certain funds are also maintained through the budget rebalancing for this development assistance. However, it should also be noted that the development aid law itself does not provide for an annual quota, which is determined annually from the budget to the balance and is adapted to the possibilities. And if there is no possibility of spending more than one year, further funds may be transferred to the next budget period. Of course, there is also a possibility that each ministry will have within its annual plan, in line with the actual consumption that will take place in the second half of this year, to make possible reallocations. It should also be noted that, in the context of preparing for a new financial perspective for the following year, it is necessary to seriously consider how we fully finance the development problems of the areas and provide for additional opportunities to draw on European funds also from these headings. If I can get to the bottom of this. We estimate that this proposal for a rebalancing is in line with the commitments we have made under the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme and that, given that we have the possibility of reducing the expenditure of the state budget for only half a year and also on the revenue side of the measures, the proposed rebalancing is essentially a good starting point for further actions to be prepared for the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vranitz. I'm opening another round to discuss and you have a chance to apply. Sixteen other debaters have been reported in this round. First up is Mr. Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State and Secretary of State! First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance for the clarifications concerning my presumption and still claim that there may be a violation of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2015. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology agreed at the beginning of June this year on the level of funds and the programme adopted by the Government in March this year is six million. When we add up these funds, we simply don't come up to six million and I'm worried because next year we're probably going to have to tighten the belt even more – everyone in their place, everyone in their work circle, probably everyone – so I'm afraid, here I'm really expressing the fear that by 2015 we're going to have to provide legally defined funds under the law on development support for Pomurje, and these funds are about thirty million. In fact, I continue with one pleasure, I see that we are somehow listening, and I believe that the opposition side of the government is also listening attentively. We all note that we have been simply trying to get out of the crisis for five years with a variety of measures, but they simply do not see or see effectively enough. I'd start here with points where we're united, with this diagnosis we're united. And perhaps we are united by the statement I will make below, that is, at this moment our only national interest is the exit of the country from the crisis. And then I ask the question: is there a national consensus, first of all a consensus in this house, of all political groups, that we approach a project to solve the economic crisis, or that we put an end to the crisis as a project? The project must be equipped with resources. These are human resources, I believe we have enough quality staff in Slovenia. These are financial resources. And time is one of the resources. Can we agree to put this project on hold by the end of 2014, and all, indeed, two million and something as far as we are, to tighten the belt and redirect all available funds to those economic operators that are in a developmental rush that have programmes that have foreign markets? Since we are simply a small economy, it is necessary not only to cut into the European 500 million-million-dollar market, but also to cut into markets outside Europe. Are we able to do that? I am sure, as always, that the economy, the economists, will draw us out of the crisis. And we need to be united on matters that we decide on. These are the only entities that decide how to get out of our crisis. I don't mention unionists here. On the Committee on Foreign Policy, where we are in fact, this is a pleasant conclusion, very united and we have also found very uniformly that Slovenia is closing in economic terms. It is just as if it is not from some ministerial departments of interest to go to present Slovenian potentials abroad. At least that's how Minister Erjavec said he and his team were lonely. I therefore appeal to the Government to make it clear in the Government that for significantly more aggressive performances in foreign markets, particularly or even in those countries, such as the Western Balkans, which we support on their European path, and they understand us and they still trust us. I would also like all the comments we hear from the European institutions to say that the Minister has satisfied me with the answers he gave to the Committee on Economics in the European Parliament yesterday. I think the Members of Parliament have been calm with the answers. That all that, say, we listen to Ollie Rehn's comments, from Disselbloem, from our neighbor, from the finance minister of Austria, that these are more or less, I understand, well-intentioned comments. We are in the family of European nations, and we must not take Europe as an external enemy because of this. If we're going to put ourselves in this position, God forbid the government, then we're a short-lived man. We also talked a lot about the justice system, which is also what the Slovenian economy is about. I am pleased here that in the area of justice, the investments already planned by our government and probably by the previous government, these investments remain. I say that it is necessary to ensure good working conditions for the judicial authorities, but then we too will be held responsible from this house, despite the fact that the judiciary is extremely independent. I am in favour of building a new judicial building, I am in favour of carrying out an e-justice project, and we need new prisons, unfortunately, and so on. But then I also expect the Justice Minister to be sitting with the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, who clearly told us that the Commission has the names who are responsible for the bad situation in banks, as a result also in the economy, but cannot simply issue those names. Citizens want these names and we need to give them a name and responsibilities. I expect that Minister Plitsanic will soon bring legislation to this National Assembly that will allow these names to be disclosed. On a document presented by the KPK, which has the date of this year, it is called the State Assessment, which may or may not remain. But I don't like that the Government is coming, which is not a matter of rebalancing, I apologize, but I don't like that it comes in this situation when we all want and are looking for solutions to get out of the crisis, to come to the National Assembly – and even more so, before the Slovenian people with those who share the Slovenian nation. I therefore appeal to the Government that, for the time being, or at least for the time being, such projects should be placed in a drawer and not come with legal materials, which, for example, the Slovenian people have already made clear on 25 March what the position of citizens is, and I do not think that we need to irritate the Slovenian people with matters that will not bring anything to the end of the economic crisis, but will deepen it further. However, here I am, and I conclude with this, I strongly agree with the debate of colleague Andre Shirtzl. In this search for a way out of the crisis, we also need to agree once again on which and what higher education programmes are to be paid, which contribute to the development of Slovenian society and which only brings depression to young graduates. I submit that the quality of a higher education programme is inversely proportional to the time elapsed from the moment of the promotion of the diploma to the moment of the appointment of this graduate. Longer than this age, the program's worse. Shorter than this time, it's a better program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Just Bevk's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! It would stop in two areas covered by the 2013 State Budget Balance. These are infrastructure and culture. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Space has €389 million of resources available through the rebalancing, amounting to €88 million less than envisaged by the 2013 original budget. Transport and transport infrastructure will be less than 107 million, most of them railways, although it was initially said that the road budget would be reduced by 12 million, but it is surprisingly increasing by 16 million euros – totalling 188 million euros for state roads. This time, I would focus on the issue of drawing on European funds. In the state budget balance, billions and 185 million euros are available for this area throughout the country and throughout the national budget, which is approximately EUR 258 million less than in the original 2013 budget. In fact, these European funds are the only investment potential that this country has at its disposal, but there are a number of problems in drawing this out. First, I would point out the slow placement of infrastructure facilities and roads into space, then bankruptcy of selected project managers in the field of construction. We had quite a few such problems, such as Primorje in the construction of the diocese and the tunnel, the bankruptcy of Alpina Bau from Austria and the halting of the construction of the Markovec tunnel, not to mention further or backward. There are also difficulties in obtaining land, then extremely long-term audit procedures, and also falling down the current lane, some calls or decisions on calls, which the State Audit Commission then handles and often also cancels and then prolongs and prolongs altogether. For example, for the third time in a row, a call for the continuation of the sycophelic bond, which is one of the largest projects on the fourth development axis, has fallen. As we have read in the newspapers, the travelers even predict that the auditors will report to the anti-corruption commission because they are supposed to cancel the tender documentation on the initiative of a company that has no references, has closed accounts and does not pay taxes. The congregation of Škofja Lok also foretold that it would turn even to the Constitutional Court. The inhabitants of Škofje Loke have been waiting for this road for four decades when trucks and passenger traffic are moving through the thousands of years of old street towards the Poljanska Valley or vice versa. This is no longer the case, and I therefore urge the Government to take action in this area. Thus, the delays in launching these projects, which are ready, are very high. As a result, this means the inability to properly draw on European funds. My question would therefore be focused on how to improve the country's use of European funds and put these infrastructure projects into space more quickly. This third development axis has not yet been placed in space and has been in place since 2005. With regard to the third development axis at Škofljica, the nature of the decision also shifts to a vague future. Then there is the fourth development axis, when the previous Janša government in its last breath cancelled the most ambitious project on this fourth axis, this is the tunnel link between Gorenjska and Primorsko. I hope that the new government will reverse this decision of the previous government and that it will start as soon as possible with the continuation of this development project. My question is how to improve the use of European funds, because billions and 185 million euros, I speak for the whole country and for all areas, is practically the only investment potential of this country and, above all, will depend on our renewed economic momentum. That is why, of course, I regret that there has been a reduction in investment funds at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, as if this reduction had not occurred, this ministry and all these projects could certainly generate further economic development in our country. And since it is also necessary to consider new means of transport infrastructure, I would suggest that, following the example of the petrol dinar and tolar, we introduce a petrol cent to start the reconstruction of state roads in the Republic of Slovenia. While overall expenditure is increasing in the state budget balance, in fact the budget is being redistributed by individual ministries – so is the budget for culture. And we have been following this negative trend in the area of culture for several years. Two, three years ago, the budget of the Ministry of Culture was stronger than 200 million euros. Now we have come to EUR 163 million, which is already a critical limit for the operation of this department and the normal implementation of the Ministry of Culture programme is already under threat. Even though we can say that there was a positive light in re-establishing a separate Ministry of Culture, I can say that, from a financial point of view, this was not tangible. So, let's say with the 2011 rebalancing, the funds decreased by 20 million euros, then with the 2012 rebalancing by another 20 million, and with the current balance, the funds for culture are falling by an additional 8 million euros. I think there's quite a few areas that are deprived of it. Here I am referring to the culture of love, then to the field of art, and what the minister himself has pointed out on the cultural home committee is more than a million and a hundred thousand euros less for the restoration of cultural heritage or monuments. Here, for several years, the trend of the country's stepfather's relationship to the monumental heritage in Slovenia has been showing. I am pleased, however, that I have assured the Minister that he will propose an extension of the cultural tolar or euro law. This is the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. The validity of this law expires this year, and we must extend it this calendar year. It is because of this law that more than €90 million have been richer in recent years, namely five programming sets: monuments, investments in public institutions, librarianism, amateur culture and cultural networks. Finally, the initiative of the ministerial assembly and the government as a whole, perhaps especially the financial ministry, to seek, in addition to drawing on European funds, other possible financial resources at global level. I will give you just one example, which is still untapped for Slovenia and represents a great potential. I am talking about the United Nations Environment Programme, with an abbreviation of UNEP, and the World Environment Fund, which is an official financial instrument for the implementation of key international environmental agreements. For the period July 2010 to July 2014, this Fund has €4 billion and €250 million of funding available for projects that could be prepared and pumped into Slovenia. For a four-year period of $4 billion and a quarter of dollars. Lately, our government has also been preparing to draw on these funds. Obviously there are not only budgets within the European Union, but also global financial funds, which need to be used to a greater extent, and I hope we will do so in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Mateja Pučnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! Unfortunately, the balance that this government has drawn up cannot be supported because it does not lead to the recovery of our country, although of course I would want to do so immeasurably. Today, in the opposition, we have repeatedly stressed and warned that the balance sheet is not development-oriented, as it takes the most resources directly in the field of investment. And because there will be no investment, we will not be able to draw all the funds from the European Union, and that is precisely for projects that will ensure the start of the economy, and some estimates suggest that we will leave more than €250 million in the European Union's cohesion and structural funds. That'll be irreparable damage. This will also result in a decline in economic growth, which will not only fall by 1.9% this year, but by 2.4%, as Umar tells us. So the government takes exactly where it should not: in the field of investment and in the area of competitiveness and entrepreneurship. This will receive more than €30 million less, of which almost €10 million will support tourism development and 7 million will be less for incentives for growth and business development. And I wonder how the government can then expect the start of an economy. Just by using financial injections to help only selected companies, it won't be enough. And where will all young people, our unemployed people, who have been encouraged to receive almost €10 million from Europe, be employed? I agree that young people are not the problem of being our solution, as the President of the Government has said, but I wonder where they will be employed if there are no new jobs. That is why I would like to draw attention to the letter or calls made by representatives of the economy with the first signed Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia for several weeks by the President of the Government, where he writes something like this. I quote. "The government takes over the economy three times. First, with new or higher contributions and taxes. Second, with the budget rebalancing. Thirdly, with less European Union funding. The government, contrary to its commitments under the Coalition Treaty, is further burdening the economy, which has lost more than 90 000 jobs in the last four crisis years." End of quote. With the increase in taxes and contributions and the ever-new taxes as the only measures, this number will only increase in my opinion. Because small entrepreneurs and craftsmen – and now I am talking about the experiences that people who come from my places of employment who have 5, 10 people, work for a month, fight in a non-exhaustible market, and they are also struggling with non-discipline of payments, and still manage to secure wages every month – these new burdens will not be able to bear these new taxes, they will not bear them. Instead of additional employment, they will only be able to forgive. And instead of implementing measures to provide an enabling environment for employment, promoting investment in this area, it is reducing funds. So instead of encouraging and decommissioning entrepreneurs and craftsmen, it puts ever-new and new burdens on them, and it is no wonder that some of our successful entrepreneurs are predicting in a loud voice that they will move their factories to other countries, Croatia, Serbia, where they obviously have a more business-friendly environment. This is also what Shircelj's colleague has been talking about. And it's not just about entrepreneurs, craftsmen and farmers, it's about all the other citizens. With new taxes, the government places a heavy burden on the shoulders of every citizen, so that with tax money it can patch a much more than a billionth of a hole in our uprooted banks. It also reduces funding for education, health care, limits maternity benefits and could also be listed. On the other hand, it raises funds for the work of the former president's office, and the information commissioners, and the anti-corruption commission, pay the privileged pensions. It's like it's not about the crisis. The President of the Government has repeatedly stressed that we can and ourselves know that we do not need the money to need time, which I would be happy to agree with, but obviously we are also running out of time, so we are told from Brussels, and I am afraid that this time we have left can only bring us new taxes and new burdens. I'm sorry. I'm not going to support this balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, and a very nice greeting to all present. In fact, we are still dealing with the general part of the budget, so I will try to limit myself to this so-called general part. First, I have some concerns. Many of the debates we have heard so far are going in the direction of talking about the budget. In fact, we are talking today about the budget rebalancing. This balance that we are adopting today is due to a fact that has already been discussed today that the budget adopted has been unrealisticly planned. I do not argue that it was deliberately unrealistic, perhaps some of the circumstances at the time were different than they were today, from the realization of what economic growth or decline is, more specifically, economic activities, such as some of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have subsequently given us new obligations, some have been resolved, some to mention only the problem deleted, and we are probably still waiting. It's just that there's nothing but the reality of the moment. And in this reality, unfortunately, there are some areas, and I am not satisfied with what we have before us, perhaps neglected. However, I do not wish to share the populist opinions and views we have heard so far. For example, one such thing that was not only said here but also in the media is, for example, an example of VAT, what is the understanding of the effects of the increased tax. For example, I read in the Primorski News that some innkeeper said, "Yes, so far, there have been 6 euros of adhesion, and now there will be 7 euros." And when you're going to calculate how much is actually going to increase his spending for the country, you see that with a higher VAT, it's going to increase his spending by about 5 cents, but 95 cents is going to overwhelm the consumer. Of course, not everyone did. Some reacted differently. I am more disturbed by this ignorance that some who are liable to pay VAT do not even know or know how to settle it. Some quiet soul says, yes, VAT went up by 2%. That's not true. VAT went up 10%, but two percentage points. For example, in a car worth 12 000 euros, someone simply says, yes, that means that now this car is going to go up 240 euros. It's not true, if they can count, it's worth 164 euros. In short, we tend to instill things where we want them, where we do not, especially if we say it to the other side or if we say it ourselves, we minimize them. I think it is very important that our rapporteur made a message on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Potočnik, when he said that we will not accept social dumping for the price of this government. It is not because we are not aware that, in particular, we will have to cut further in preparation for the next budget. But I must make it clear that I am absolutely against so-called linear cuts, because linear cuts, for example, 10%, usually follow that we harm those who have already been useful, cost-effective and reward those who have taken these matters more with their left hand. I am in favour of sectoral analysis, what can be reduced, what can be eliminated, what can be abolished even in the long run, and what needs to be preserved. And here I have to make it very clear that we will probably have to think about some things in the future, not immediately, but at some mid-term, that we will also have to do what some consider to be sacred cows if I use this ugly term, that is, in the norms and standards. Not because we want a less social state, but because some of the circumstances have changed significantly also because of the use of modern technologies. It is not necessary, perhaps 15 years ago, to spend on preparing the same time as it was then. The amended facts should be accepted. Another issue is some of the institutions. I've already proposed to the government, which could be eliminated. I think the government will actually have to do that. Not for the purpose of taking someone's job, but for the reason that I believe they are their own purpose, and for such institutions on the medium and longer term in Slovenia, we do not need them. These are facts, but we need to be completely honest. We're very vehement when someone from outside orders us, when we have to make a deal at home, it's always harder. We all stand up like a cat on our backs when someone reaches out to those areas that we consider to be their representatives. But we are Members, if we are actually aware, representatives of all stakeholders. That is why sometimes it is necessary to let go of what you are defending, and not the priori of attacking any action that appears, and say, "No, we do not, let them see that they do." Of course, this is very comfortable because it gives you the impression that you are defending some interests, especially those of your own electoral base, and a little less of another. With such a paradigm, we will not come out of the crisis, but will deepen. The third thing that we take uncritically is that we believe that everything that Europe says across the board must be taken into account immediately, and that is what they have told us. I think we're running out of confidence. Some things we have also gathered through the history of this country. Is it possible somewhere in Denmark or Norway to cut into certain things that they consider to be a civilizational achievement? Probably not. However, it is possible to cut down where it is considered that, without any major damage, compromises could be made. Another point that we hear a lot about here is the reduction in investment expenditure. That's just not true. When we look at the implementation of last year's budget with this balance sheet that we have, investment expenditure does not go down. However, some investments have been reduced in some subgroup. That's right. I mean, someone's just saying something to us, and we like to see someone like to hear us defend some of our interests, and what we do is we cut off the wire, flat-rately, but it's the holy truth, and we say, "Yeah, well, that's other people's faults." I must therefore stress once again that this balance is a reflection of the real situation in this country. And at this point, unfortunately, there is no other choice, and there is no possible major reassignment. However, as far as the economy is concerned, it is true, not through direct aid, but through the instruments implemented, that the economy is given even more room for manoeuvre than it was last year. However, the problem is that some economic operators are simply not qualified to use all the instruments offered. On the other hand, it is true that we also have banks, and here is the catch of the whole fact that the start-up of the economy will not be until this bank is repaired or destroyed. Such as these, they certainly cannot monitor economic needs. We don't want a banking system that is equal to medieval savings banks, but we need a banking system that is essentially going to be a development bank. It is sad that even some good projects that are ready and could be launched do not receive from our existing banks or bank guarantees. This is a real reflection of what we have. That is why, in fact, with Europe, without Europe, these banks must be saved first. All the other consumers will just have to squeeze a little bit this year, and no one is happy about it. Once again, I am not alone, but this, I repeat, reflects for the first time poor planning in the past, bad habits from the past and also the larger and wider crisis and longer crisis than we imagined. I'll support the rebalancing. However, I must say that I will be very rooting for the next year's budget to be much more development-oriented.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! According to theory, the rebalancing process is a process of recoupling revenue and expenditure. It is interesting, however, that we use the same reasoning in this rebalancing, or if you want the interpretations that we used in the rebalancing when we took it under the government of Janez Janša, only that we were correcting, as we have stated, the unrealistic planning of the government of Borut Pahor. Obviously, no government can give what it doesn't have. Inflows to the budget are lower, this budget has been planned or made on the basis of the death forecasts at the time, and it is worrying that we are recording lower economic growth or a decline in economic activity. But why? Not because this government would do so badly these 100 days, but because we've been talking about structural reforms for 10 years. But when we do, these are too ambitious, too little courage, or we can talk more about reforming the legislation. The reform of the labour market, we did not support it in the Civil Paper, because we thought that the economy needed a more flexible labour market. Today, this economy tells us that obviously we were right, although I understand and do not accuse Mr Visiak, he has done all he can, but this is Slovenian reality. Clearly, the union agreement was no longer possible. And this is also the cancer of the wound of Slovenia. The second cancer of our public finances is that we have spent more years than we have created. On the day the Slovenian flag proudly clapped out here on the market of the Republic, the words were said to allow the dream tonight, that tomorrow is a new day. It's a really new day, the party's over, the barrel's empty, and we've got a headache. The innkeeper just put out an account, the numbers in the account are inexcusable and show that our country is in serious trouble, but we will only fix this if we pool our strengths and pursue a better future together. We must also admit that socialism has made us accustomed to the intolerable ease of living in the apparent abundance, where the payment of the question is postponed to the next day. With the accumulation of credits, we become servants, but if we don't, we can return them, and we will become slaves. And for this reason, I will support this rebalancing because it is necessary to reduce funds on some policies, on one item to put on those items where we pay interest or repay credits that have been leased in the past and are also used. Either effective or ineffective, that's another question. Nevertheless, I will repeat the words that I am already on one of the committees. I don't envy the President of the Government, I don't envy the Minister, they're in a difficult position, it's not easy to run the country at these times, but I still think if I were here, I'd make an extra effort not to increase the spending side, even though we're only talking about 16 million. I think it's also a symbolic message, because we're going to have to tighten the belts in the future. But not only will I criticise, I will rather help and encourage this government to do more in the future or in the future on the expenditure side of the budget and to raise taxes as little as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor! Today's presentation of the proposal for a rebalancing has been very unusual for me, and I have been following these procedures for 17 years, because, in fact, I always accept budgets and rebalancies, unusual because I expected that when President of the Government and Minister are presented, we will have some perspective on the government's thinking. Some view, despite the crisis, that these most responsible people in the country will see through their own shadow. I'm afraid that didn't happen. After three months, after 100 days or even more of the government's only motive, the President of the Government has passed. It can't do without the past government on such important programme issues as the budget rebalancing. But she said that her government had done a great deal. And if it has done a lot, it should also be seen in the balance sheet, in order to have some effects in the financial field, the situation is constantly deteriorating from day to day. At the beginning of her term of office, the Prime Minister said those famous words, we don't need money, we need time. Today, she said that the minister had declared somewhere that time was money. That means if you need time, you need money, now it's translated. And of course, of course, the state needs money to cover what has happened in this country over the past years and has nothing to do with honesty, because billions have run out. Today, I expected the President of the Government and the Finance Minister to illustrate to the Parliament and the public what happened in Brussels in the face of these terrible predictions, the demands: time is running out. Would it not be responsible for him to talk about it? In the meantime, the European Union has also rejected the first transfer of claims to a bad bank. And if the accurate information that leaks that this has happened because the government has sent credible, non-creditable data through banks, that the hole in the banking system will be even higher than our bankers have been prepared to count, then I must say that if this government is not prepared to do so, it does not offer more than the government's president or minister has offered today, then this government has no concept, no vision to manage the financial situation and we can be concerned. After I heard that the summit of Positive Slovenia and the President of the Government had dinner with the Ljubljana mayor, the party's president – in fact, he is still at peace to offer at least the so-called Cyprus-Ljubljan concept. And I didn't see that either, because Cyprus is actually an important word, an important location in our financial affairs. And when the President of the Government defamed with the previous government, she said it was hard to get 20% wrong. I note, however, that in some respects alone, there is a drastic interference – more than 20% – that it is doing some things that we can assess for changes by more than 20%. Let's let him do a 180-degree, 100-percent flip. The President of the Government has asked us to speak if anyone has any suggestions. I am disappointed that some Members, particularly the Luksics, here are performing opposition talks to see that the matter does not work at all, to mine within the government coalition. When they talk about proposals, I advise the Presidents of the Government to get rid of the claws of swallows, because these dinners do not inspire people to move to transparency in this country. In addition, today we hear that when public television broadcasts about the meeting between Bratuškova and Mercator about Mercator’s sale of Mercator, the public broadcasts are cut off. Well, that's outrageous! The next proposal is to let the President of the Government know that budget Slovenia is the whole of Slovenia, not Ljubljana. And once again subject to the demands of the Ljubljana mayor, although, look, we come from the province and we are also here during the week, we see that there is still honey and milk flowing here, that there is no shortage of money. Take a look at this after you're busy and I don't know what. There's still a lot of money running through here. Some people have cheap money. And it seems to me that she's already succumbed to that horrifying mayor's claim that Ljubljana has suffered. All taxes are paid here. Ljubljana only has a guaranteed amount of money when it became its capital. Other people are problems, other people are poverty. And a third piece of advice. Some time ago, the President of the Government, together with the Minister of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court, signed a commitment to justice. Clearly, however, they did not say anything about this undertaking and did not write about the implementation of the law on confiscation of property of criminal origin, which the judiciary does not wish to enforce. And the government doesn't have that intention either, because it's obviously protecting the swallows who robbed our banks and our country. If this were signed in this commitment, then today, when we talk about future finances, we would say that we are counting on being drawn back to the country, to the state budget millions and billions. Let him promise to return from this money, that the government will make every effort to get two billion back from ten as much as the bank hole is now. That money is whether it's in Cyprus or anywhere. I thought that at yesterday's Ljubljana-Cyprus meeting, you agreed that you would still be merciful to the state and that some money would come back, because the option that now rules controls 80% to 90% of those people who have money that has disappeared from the banks. And none of this has been promised or falsified. For this reason, it is not surprising that I am aware that, under such a state of state treasury, it is necessary to reduce. They are losing everyone, culture, the environment and, above all, an economy that will not be able to revive at such an unconceptual point of view of the government. And the situation is so serious that I cannot accept such a written attitude towards Parliament, which was demonstrated today by the presentation, by the fact that it is the password: we are going to survive one term, and then we will see what happens. Look, the Prime Minister spoke if, if, if, if, if we know how this one goes in the folk tale, the onion bull would become without these chis. [[...]] But I'm afraid this government coalition is one big piece of shit. And fertilising bulls further reduce the body's immune system and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u55	Rebalance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u56	With the current government, you have further reduced this country's immune system, with severe consequences for the citizens of this country. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Kavticnik. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u58	Dear Chairman! Please, if you warn your colleague Jerovsk, because when he said the coalition was a dung bull, it could mean, so I imagined that we were the ones in the coalition, the shit. And that's unacceptable, for the first time, for this national council, and for me in particular. Comrade Jerovšek, I will no longer tell you a colleague, but only, no, a Member who has no place in this national council. What he just said, and if he doesn't apologize, he may have missed it, but if he doesn't apologize, I can't tell him my colleague anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Kavtičnik, if you have heard of it, I told Mr Jerovšek about the onions and bulls during its implementation, said the rebalancing. Of course, I accept your warning, but at the same time I recommend that you also do not judge which of the Members is the seat of the National Assembly, because we are all elected. I understand what you're saying. Please, do you have a procedure, Mr. Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u60	Because I often speak metaphorical language and we know that the creature is reducing the immune system, I used one metaphor from the human language. If I hurt anyone, of course I apologize. This was not meant literally, at least in the way that colleague Kavtičnik spoke. I don't mind if he doesn't have me as a colleague anymore, but it's his free choice. So, I used metaphorical language. If I hurt anyone, I don't mean in that human sense, but that we shouldn't be wearing, on the government system, on the state system of things that are reducing the state's immune system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u62	Today we are talking about the 2013 budget balance. Many coalition colleagues have warned us not to talk about the budget, but about the balance. However, the balance sheet represents a correction of the 2013 budget. I have to answer one thing that is constantly and constantly occurring in this debate, which is that this balance was needed due to poor planning. Those who are economists, those who have already prepared a budget for some local community, municipality or company, you know that each budget consists of income and expenditure and that we can predict and stick to the expenditure very precisely. If we decide to spend so much and so much, we'll probably do it. But when it comes to income, it's a completely different story. Income, however, is a dynamic element. They may be what we planned, but they may not be. As the circumstances are not what we predicted, incomes are also lower. And that's exactly what happened in the case of our state budget. All those who are now talking about how only the fire is going out and how badly we planned would remember – this time I have to go back to the end of 2012. At the end of 2012, Slovenia seemed to be on the right track. We have put under the roof a pension reform, and under the roof we have even put this budget with the votes of the opposition. At that time, the Constitutional Court rejected those two referendums on the bad bank and the Slovenian State Holding and it seemed that there was finally a bright spot at the end of the tunnel of all the efforts we had made in 2012. Then what happened at the beginning of 2013, you remember. And all that was happening in early 2013 was a political crisis, but the political crisis had an impact on people's starting to save less. However, when they were spending less, they were simply lower in revenue from the state budget. The formula is very simple. And when today to blame only on the former coalition, an expensive new coalition, remember that you were one of those who helped our government coalition to wave and eventually fall, causing a political crisis and thus causing lower revenues to the state budget. So today this balance is also due to you. I also understand a number of colleagues sitting in the coalition today having problems. But the problems are because they created false expectations in the opposition, how all things can be done very easily, how there is no need to save, how everything we do is wrong. Now things are showing up in a different light. I understand them that they are uncomfortable and that it is very uncomfortable to be in the role of policy when it comes to taking measures that people do not like. But that's what you wanted, and today you have it. The next such winged, which was proposed today, "Why do you complain in the opposition at all, but if our coalition is practically continuing with the work of your government?" Let's take a look at the way things are! In the stability programme that we sent to the European Commission, where we wrote the programme, the programme of Slovenia, how we will reduce the surplus deficit, was written down by the projects carried out by our government. For a bad bank, you wrote that this is one of the tools that will help you to arrange things in Slovenia to bring to life the Slovenian State holding company, then to adopt a fiscal rule, to change the referendum regime. All of this has been written in the stability programme, all of this has been on the European Commission, and all of this has somehow been the work of the previous government, and has been completed by your votes under your government. Has it already been written down and promised — or has it actually been implemented? The answer is no! The bad bank stands or things do not move at the right speed and in the desired direction. There is talk of some concept of selectivity, where it will be optionally chosen, which bad claims will be transferred to a bad bank and which it does not. Then there will be a problem with the European Commission when it comes to setting a fair price, further, some businesses will be helped, their credits will be reprogrammed, why some will, why not others. In short, a bunch of open stories. As far as Slovenian State Holding is concerned, I see nothing concrete in order to move matters, nor does it go in the direction of better governance of state assets, which would also help us to tackle the surplus more quickly. The discharge of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank speaks much or much talk about how state assets are managed. At the time of our government, prominent European experts were placed in this supervisory council – not only this diction "reputable European experts", experts who already have experience in the rehabilitation of the banking system. You're so confused with one hand. And that is why I am saying that we cannot say that this is a real continuation of the work of our government. And like I said, on paper, yes, I'm sure it's not in practice. What does this balance actually bring, and what are the changes? Investments are declining. I would like to see the former opposition Member and current Minister of Economy Mr Stepišnik sitting in that chair today always telling us, "If you want to boost economic growth, you urgently need investment." Where are the investments? Even when I am no longer a Member, these words of Mr Stepišnik will always echo me. Now I can only repeat his words – where are the investments? Investments in this balance sheet are cut down from 100 million euros. You're also introducing new taxes. In fact, the Secretary of State said that there was no trace or trace of the taxes forecasting. I think that at least some traces of new taxes have, at least I hope, planned in the balance sheet what inflows of value added tax or if you did not plan them, then I understand you in some way too, because the experience of other European countries, Romania, Spain and Croatia has proved that by increasing value added tax at the end of the year, no more money has been collected into the state budget. Old stories, repeated daily by all economists, speak in the direction that if we are to stop our economic downturn, then the banking system needs to be repaired. Let's ask ourselves what we did at this point. That the economy needs to be unloaded. I feel like we're going in a different direction. And I'm going to give you one example of whether I won't think of it or not just being so philosophically speaking, a concrete case from the ground. When the parliamentary group was recently on the ground and we met with a gardener who currently has two employees, he said: "I would be most pleased to hire a third. I would give him eight hundred euros' wages, but if I give him eight hundred euros' wages, the state wants me to have 1,000 euros." He said, "I can't give a thousand six euros, but I can give a thousand two hundred euros." If we had such a lower tax, the country would today, instead of not getting anything, receive at least EUR four hundred in the state budget. I have already talked about new investments, as many also stress that they are needed to stop the decline and also to improve the management of state assets. I've never been, and I'm not a politician, which is why I don't want to criticize everything on average. If I am already saying what is wrong, then it is right to suggest what I would like this government coalition or this government to do in order to move things forward or what should be done with the balance and budget. I would suggest at least two things, also on the basis of the invitation of the President of the Government that the public sector should be reduced. The longer we find that we cannot maintain such a public sector, the more painful the cuts will be. Lowering wages in the public sector is simply not the right principle, because this does not solve problems, which punishes those who work well, hard, and those who do not. And even with the ever-new decline in public sector wages, we only achieve that the public sector is more uninterested from day to day and that some negative selection is being carried out. You will ask me where and how to reduce this public sector. I won't detect any hot water, but with reduced normality. In Slovenia, virtually every thing is to the point, the comma and something else we prescribe. If we had simpler regulations, but we didn't need to find any new things, we could go across the border, look at the documentation you need in Austria for building permits and what in Slovenia, if we were to simplify procedures, then we would definitely need some less official. And this has been a concrete contribution to reducing the scope of the public sector. I will conclude at this point because there are still possible debates on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! All those who listened today to the opening presentation of today's item, namely, this is the budget rebalancing for this year, we have received one very clear signal. The Prime Minister of the Government was particularly impressed by the look on her back, in particular by the criticism of the previous government. The Minister of Finance welcomed us in a minute and 48 seconds. My opinion is that the future cannot be built on the basis of the criticism of others. We have not heard anything about solutions, we have not heard anything about measures and starting points. Nor does the proposed rebalancing indicate this direction. It does not indicate the future and does not indicate a stabilisation of public finances. I'd say this rebalancing was an extremely easy task. We took it where it's the least painful, that's an investment, that we won't hurt anyone on the day of adoption, and we leave the consequences, and I'll cut those investments a little bit later, and then I'll say we increase the share of soft content. We have increased in culture and education because, of course, we have separated these resources and the sumarum sumarum is going to these two sectors to increase. I'll give you a case. If I'm just as simple a mathematician as we all are by most Slovenes, and I'll give you the following example. On the one hand, we have raised VAT, and well, let us leave other taxes and taxes that we will, but if I limit myself only to raising VAT, we have burdened the economy as well as the others, but well, let us stay in the economy for now. On the other hand, we have reduced investment. With this, we have taken a very large part of the economy. And if we add these two sum sumarum items together, at the end of the financial year, that's definitely a negative result. I'd say not minus, but double minus. I would like to see the financier who will convince me otherwise that if we add these two things together and the financial indicators are positive at the end of the year. I'll be really, really happy. I think this year will definitely require another rebalancing. But that balance isn't going to be as easy as this one. I think we're gonna need a balance, because after three or four months, we're gonna run out of money. I'd say the first acquaintance of this will be, I don't know, pensions won't be paid first, but the fifth, the tenth, the fifteenth, it'll be there somewhere before the new year. He'll be the first acquaintance. And other financial measures that will not go as fast as they have gone so far. And that rebalancing will be a very difficult task. And then, I believe, government representatives will not be so keen on history and the past, but they will be dealing with financial reality and a financial perspective for the future. I would say, this rebalancing, I repeat, a very easy matter, but the next rebalancing will be a rather difficult task for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Each budget is a goal set by the government in the previous year for action in the coming year. And whether it is the same government during its four-year term or another government, in any event it is necessary to amend the budget adopted in the preceding year. We need to order a rebalancing. Therefore, I do not think it makes sense to accuse the former government of adopting the budget as it is last year, for this year, because it has adopted it in different circumstances and with the expectation that it will be able to implement certain measures which it did not then take for objective reasons. I also do not think it makes sense to accuse the current government of making a rebalance, because it had to do so, because it had to take into account the new macroeconomic circumstances, the new situation in international circumstances and, above all, the situation at home, and it had to halve those costs, the new expenditure it was awaiting this year and foresee some new revenue as far as possible. I think it is more important to listen to the discussions that some of our colleagues have had today, and I think they have been very constructive and very helpful to have some joint reflection on how to link our situation from the past to the future. It seems particularly important to commend or highlight the discussions of colleagues from Starman, Potočnik, Bogovic and Šircelj. I am also particularly grateful to the Secretary of State. The Vranics, because of the many doubts they continue to raise, have already answered in their performance and also very well explained how investments will be made in the coming year. For we have already been in July and those who have ever been in the government know that implementation of the budget in the second half of the year is subject to some different forms of retention, implementation of the budget. And this second half of the year will probably not require a new balance, but the government or the Ministry of Finance will, with some of its additional measures, ensure that only as much revenue will be spent. This can be done both by suspending the budget and also by completing new commitments. And this conclusion is usually made by the Government or the Ministry of Finance, depending on how much income there will be, either in November or even about a month earlier. We are also likely to experience a silent rebalancing that will take place at the end of the year by transferring those commitments that should be paid at the end of the year in December in January. And again, we will only know in the 2013 final budget report somewhere in mid-2014 how much money we spent in 2013. Today, several times a message was mentioned, which was given to Slovenia on Ecofin two days ago. I don't think we should be surprised by these messages. We are part of the European Union, and it is normal for the European Commission to be involved in our debate in the National Assembly on the budgetary rebalancing in a special way by communicating to Slovenia what it expects from it through the Economic and Financial Council of Ministers of the individual Member States of the European Union. It also tells us what it expects of us in this debate today and in the coming days when we will vote on this balance. There has also been a talk about the need to consider investing in some higher education programmes in the future – perhaps already in this rebalancing period, especially in the coming years. Some colleagues made it very clear that funding for higher education social programmes should be stopped or reduced, some said that consideration should be given to which higher education programmes are being invested. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the employment of young people does not have good prospects at the moment, not those who complete social programmes, not those who end natural or technical programmes. For what is required of the workforce at this time in Slovenia, all our highly educated young people are overeducated or, as they call it, overeducated in English. So let us not pretend to argue between ourselves universities and colleges, which are either natural or social, or technical, to save anything in the long run. We will have to look forward to an appropriate balance or relationship between individual higher education programmes, also in order to develop science in our country in the future. The question was also raised as to whether public sector spending standards and standards could be reduced. In this debate, I would like to draw attention to one area or one policy in our budget, at which for at least five years from the budget to the budget, standards and norms have changed from the balance to the balance. This is a policy that deals with issues of foreign policy, national security and defence. If we place on the pile the costs or expenses that our country has invested since 2009 on foreign policy, defence, protection, rescue, intelligence and internal security, then we will find that the funds in this time-rebalancing are approaching the 2004 level. In particular, this applies to the area of defence, protection and rescue. So let us ask ourselves whether, in this year's year, we will spend as much as the country has given to this purpose in 2004, or whether the standards for the performance of these tasks, which this defence and rescue system must carry out in this year's year, are being reduced to the 2004 standards. Will we, however, expect our rescuers, such as in a natural disaster, to be soldiers like volunteers, as well as professional or contractual relief units, or will we expect them to be as safe as we expected last year or before the floods? Will we even expect more and faster help? I don't think we're going to want this help to come in the form that this system was able to do in 2004. The fact is that, financially speaking, these sectors, which form part of a set of so-called national security and foreign policy issues, have lost significantly more in the past five years and also this year than all other sectors of the country. It is clear that it is possible to find internal reserves in the public administration and the wider public sector. Reserves can also be done equally well or even better by means of reduced financial resources. It is true, though, that it is not possible to go endlessly far in this reduction. However, I will also discuss some more specific things in this regard later when we discuss the specific part of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Aleksandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The rebalancing or correction of the budget, as drafted by the Government, seeks to ensure public financial stability. Public financial stability in the wake of economic growth is one of the key priorities of this government, as presented by the government in two key documents. These are the Stability Pact and the National Reform Programme. The 2013 state of budget assessment of the Republic of Slovenia revealed many differences between the estimates included by the previous government in the preparation of the budget and the actual situation requiring immediate action. It should be said that at the time of adoption of the 2013 budget, there were more than 365 million euros in total tax revenues. This government aims to reduce the country's deficit by 3% of GDP, but this goal will not be achieved until 2015. And particular attention will be paid by this government to the 2014 budget, which will be addressed in the autumn of this year. Slovenia needs a combination of economic recovery measures and fiscal consolidation measures to achieve GDP growth, as will be achieved through the 2013 budget rebalancing. I would like to point out that the wishes and needs of local communities are always somewhat neglected in financing the necessary infrastructure projects. For example, 3.a development axis or "road of death", which connects Kočevje and Ljubljana. Railway links, for example the upgrading of the necessary railway line from Ribnica to Kočev, because Kočevje has the highest level of unemployment and is at the lowest possible stage of development – especially economic. There are about two thousand five hundred people driving to work in Ljubljana and elsewhere in Slovenia. I therefore expect and believe that the government will pay more attention to these items in the 2014 budget. However, so that we do not just talk about what the balance of the budget is taking, I will point out a few items where the balance of the budget gives. The pension register will increase by a good 140 million euros. The funds will go to justice to correct past rights of approximately EUR 1.64 million. Support to NGOs and civil society for approximately EUR 1.46 million. Grants will increase by €130,000. Food and veterinary resources will increase by €410 000. Resources for the information society and electronic communications will increase by €5 million. The funds to support labour market activities will increase by about €200,000, the funds for labour market services by about €800,000. Resources to create the required jobs will increase by 10.8m euros, funds to compensate the unemployed for about 36.657 million euros, funds for social security services will increase by about 5 million euros. For all of this, I will support the 2013 budget itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you, Alexandra. And thanks again, you did something that I actually expected at the beginning to make a finance minister to present the budget rebalancing. And now at 2:00 p.m., you did that, too, that's something. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, today's Finance says: "With higher taxes, the government does not solve Slovenia's problems, but only scratches a hole that is becoming more marketed." Then there is this in Finance: "A permanent solution to the budget will have to be sought in economic development." That's the way it is in Finance today. Yesterday, after the meeting of the finance ministers in Brussels, Minister Chufer pointed out two points after the debate on Slovenia, for the first time that quality is more important than speed in cleaning the banking sector, and for the second time that further fiscal efforts will be needed to achieve the objectives of reducing the surplus government deficit. And so on Monday, when the Committee on Finance began, we knew that the finance ministers had also placed under the heading of various treatments of Slovenia. We had already decided and proposed in the Slovenian People's Party on the Committee – and this was a procedural proposal, which also received 6 votes of support, 9 against – to stop this treatment and sit behind closed doors together, without the public, without the media and try to find such solutions mainly on the expenditure side so that the budget balance would be balanced at the same level as the budget. So the less revenue there is, the less expenditure there should be. But that didn't happen. I now ask the Minister what he wanted to say, what he told them in Brussels, that further efforts will be needed to achieve the objectives of reducing public spending, as he then says: "The Commission has been monitoring our debate on the budget rebalancing and considers that structural fiscal efforts are insufficient to meet their requirements." That's what the minister says. So it's not enough to satisfy – to whom do I ask? The European Community? The European Community doesn't have any requirements! We have requirements, we have to reduce our income at home or align our income with our expenditure. That's what every housewife and every child knows: you can't spend more than you get. And then he says what falls under fiscal effort and says that they have not highlighted concrete measures, but he has agreed that, together with the European Commission, they will review once again what they take into account in the assessment of fiscal efforts in Brussels and then we will know where we are. This means that once again it will go to Brussels, just as after a time the President of the Government went and told her to go home and adopt a fiscal rule. Now she's gonna come back and say, "Listen, they told me we have to cut down on the spending side." But look, this is what our journalists write in our newspapers, what the Minister has already said in Brussels after this meeting, that's what we've been saying since we've been dealing with this rebalancing. And it would make sense to reject this balance tomorrow when voting. More important action in this country than finding a solution together politically responsibly on the expenditure side, coalition and opposition – see, this is a Parliament – a more responsible and important action, I think it is simply not. The hand we offer you from the opposition – in the Slovenian People's Party we have already offered the coalition a few times before, the question is whether it is worth simply refusing it. And if you do, you will, believe me, make a big mistake. What I am listening to now several times by some Members and Members, that this is a balance in terms of financial stability, in terms of fiscal consolidation and the creation of economic growth, of course I do not understand. Because one plus one is two, one minus one is not two, but it's nothing. One minus two is on the negative side of the minus one. And one minus two is not two. That's what we're trying to tell you. It's not like that. Do you remember how much criticism you had in accepting this budget, even though the revenue in the budget was higher and the deficit was only one billion? It's still too much, but we've been gradually reducing it, and you're increasing it now. Colleague Alenka Pavlič gave a corrective example of what they did in their company – they had to forgive people, reduce the cost of survival. In the meantime, there was some stupid investment that didn't bring a plus, but obviously a minus, and that's true. On the other hand, you say that we are going to save the country just as if you were going to hire additional bad people then, go into an additional investment and then bury the company completely. But in this budget balance, you're doing it now. Mrs Jelusic said why there was a balance – macroeconomic conditions have changed. We're aware of that. We are also aware of this or be aware that certain things were not carried out at the beginning of this year, because you have also helped cause a political crisis. This political crisis has taken too long and the solutions set out to bring the country out of the crisis have not continued. However, we can honestly say that when we had to exercise in our hands, we are in 2012 with a rebalance, which was then really unrealistic, I think, the budget was unrealistic, prepared by the current Prime Minister, then most responsible for the preparation of the budget, as well as the previous three years in the time of the Pahor government, when it prepared the budgets by which the country owed two billion euros a year and over 6% of GDP. But we reduced our debt to 3.8 in 2012 by rebalancing. And the vision we had was just as it was presented this year, a little less than three, a little less in the second year and a little less in 2015 to offset the revenue from the expenditure. Now you have not said anything of this and no one has said in a word how you plan to prepare the budget for next year. When we offer you a hand to withdraw or not vote on this balance, of course we offer you possible solutions, both to reduce public consumption and to create economic growth. See, many times has been said about a variety of norms in all areas that need to be overturned. Someone might say, or maybe on the side of the coalition, you'd expect them to be able to slobber if they were a coalition, because if they were a coalition, they'd be lowering their pensions now. That's not true! We did not reach into those pensions that were less than 600 euros, if it were more than a thousand euros, it would not be a disaster. But disaster will happen when what my colleague said before me is that a delay will be created both for the payment of pensions and for the payment of salaries in the public sector. And it will probably happen that the pensioners will stand, all linearly, which is wrong, which is completely wrong, and also all public servants — all of them, whether they work well or say some sectors where they are stocked in, because they have created an area just because they have been able to hire someone. We offer you and if we sit together, we will give you concrete offers, concrete proposals, because, as you can see, we know them, but for some other reason we do not have this opportunity to make them today. What a large majority of Members and Members who are now in coalition and who have previously been in other parties, this works, is evident from the period 2009-2011. I'm sorry. Something more about responsibility and use and why this government is also reducing the European funds referred to by my colleague Renata Brunskole, I will tell you later at the amendment, and I will remind her when she was sitting on the other side, when and what we had warned about and what the responses of the then Prime Minister Borut Pahor were. And also what Minister Gjerkesh wrote down, and who has taken concrete responsibility since then because you asked who will take all this responsibility. The Prime Minister said that the measures are ours. That's not true. Slovenia is ours, the country is ours and the measures are not ours, the measures are yours. And with such measures, as has been said many times, we have also shown you today and shown you harm for the whole country. As the current Minister has said, I am also asking you how many new jobs you will create with this, how much economic growth. There is no balance and you can't say it's economical. This rebalancing is markedly, strongly negative. Remember, even when you were in power, what you did was negative. Even state pensions have been collected by you in those lowest layers, the 180 euros or what, and no one has yet collected the assets that have been acquired in these various tycoon stories and so on. There's a lot more to be done in this area, but not the way you've done things. I'm not saying that maybe sometime, maybe later, maybe with some other percentage, but first you realized what your father, the founder of your party, said all along, it was also his password in the pre-election campaign, "we're going to raise VAT". And that's all you've done so far. I am telling you that any real estate tax, as you have imposed it, will not be left to you by these citizens and citizens. Now, of course, you have God's peace before the unionists, because the biggest lobby when we adopted the budget for this year, so the biggest lobby in higher education has taken advantage of what you shouldn't, of course they're full-year, clearly, students I've banished, for the hands they've grabbed and danced around Parliament and they've been doing an unbearable circus then around this. Nobody's doing this to you today, but that's not good. You need to be aware of the point: that neither you nor we, as ministers, as president or Prime Minister, have paid pensions, not social transfers and so on, neither do we pay public spending, but all this pays the Slovenian economy as far as it is. And this economy is sinking. With this rebalancing of yours, I'm really afraid that you've given him the last death wound when you're taking money both on investments and European funds for research and development. I also do not agree with my colleague Frangež's thinking. When we prepared and when we were responsible for leadership, we did not take 20, 30% of what happened in Greece, but gradually with smaller steps, and of course 0.8% is not a step compared to 40, 30%. But I'm afraid that this is the way you'll unfortunately lead to no other way. And then what are you going to do? Then will the coalition go apart for this? And in the end, you'll say, yes, because, we owed ourselves, we spent the American dollars, as they say, while there's something in the trough, everyone's there, but when the basket is empty, and then you run away from there and leave 'where, my dear'. That must be the worst way. Therefore, once again, colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian People's Party we invite you once again to do what we did at the press conference yesterday, to sit together and to make a meaningful effort to find solutions together. Definitely not the solutions to burden the Slovenian farmer, the countryside, these entrepreneurs we still have, the economies, and, on the other hand, the increase in public consumption. These are not solutions. Just as I warned three years ago that in the way that the invitation was not prepared for one year, this was immediately at the beginning of the takeover of the Pahor's government in 2009, colleague Dejan Levanic will remember, for a year I have been alerting him to the fifth public tender, which was not for the whole year. Now what's happening is what's going on, the period is running out, the money is going to be stuck where it's supposed to be, not where it should be. And to speak, it seems to me that the use of European funds this year will be about as big, even slightly larger than it was last year. Yes, Madam Secretary of State, because in 2009, 2010 and 2011, there was nothing or was too little to work on. And in those years that were crucial years, it wasn't prepared to use funds. Read it, you know the letter from Minister Gjerkesh, and I'll say something about it later. That was the problem, and we warned about that immediately in 2009. If you are at least a little responsible to citizens and citizens, then you will reject this balance and we will sit together by the end of the month, make expert groups and then look at how and what and together we will adopt the budget balance and the settings for the second year. On 31 December 2013, the world will not end, but will have to work and live on. How? No one said a single sentence, even though it's less than half a year ahead of us. If you take these measures, these will be your actions, which lead Slovenia on the wrong path and will not be fulfilled a word from a year ago by the current Prime Minister when she said: "We still believe that Slovenia is a country of opportunity and opportunity. There is still hope for Slovenia, only the right path must be taken." You have a chance, we offer you a hand, and you choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, I can't replicate you now because I'm in charge of the session. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course, it is not possible to add something crazy new to this balance after these hours of discussion. In view of what Mrs President Government, Minister of Finance and Madam Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance have said, it is therefore possible, in particular, to have a few responses to the debate that has taken place. First, I think it is at the point of warning all those Members of Parliament, in particular our party, that we are not talking about the budget, as we might conclude from the debate of many other Members, but about the balance. Mr Šircelj, as an expert in this field, gave a fine explanation of what a word means. And the balance is a correction of the budget. The correct correction of the budget that is being discussed today cannot, however, be a comprehensive document by which the new government, which has only been working for three months, shows its main strategic and developmental orientations. No, no, no. This is a document that is actually correcting the previous budget, which, in our view, we have said this several times since we were an opposition, unrealistic and overblown. The President of the Government and the Secretary of State said that the reason for such a state of the budget was also a further deterioration in the economic situation, and in particular in the unrealistic planning of the previous government coalition. Even if former coalition members, the current opposition, cry and cry out, stop talking about the previous coalition, it is necessary here, because this is a rebalance we are working on because their budget is not realistic and is overblown. What do these two forces mean by the word "unreal and overblown"? They mean that, in their manner, it is likely that there will be more revenue than they have come into the budget. And these derogations are not minimal, but, as the Prime Minister has said, EUR 600 million is less than anticipated. On the other hand, this same budget has foreseen much less expenditure, even in the area of legal and other obligations such as pensions and interest money, € 140 million is missing in the pension budget and € 122 per interest. That means a 20% error, if you say so. We in Positive Slovenia understand, of course, that the budget always means planning and that some derogations are possible and logical. But not in such a high amount. This is how to make a budget over the finger with such unrealistic assumptions, our Prime Minister has already said as an opposition Member, and it is easy, but it is harder to make a real budget or, in this case, a real balance, which we are trying to do now. However, this must be done because the budget or the rebalancing dictates to the State the dynamics of expenditure and debt and the implementation of legal and other obligations. If these things aren't real and they don't count, problems accumulate and they escalate at a certain point. So this balance is absolutely necessary. All calls, where we are in a hurry and what needs to be done, are totally unnecessary and inappropriate, and we need to get to the real situation as soon as possible. However, given the situation in the country, this is a balance with which no one is satisfied, but it is a fact. This is always a problem with the budget. Everyone would like more, everyone would like to do something different, the priorities of different parts of society are different, some seem to be the most important education, others investment, third culture and so on. Everyone will never be satisfied. The budget, however, is not a list of desires, since it is always up - to - date with what is and what can be spent. Thus, we are not particularly shocked that no one is satisfied with this balance, because we are not satisfied as well. And we would like everyone to live together in a country where more money would be available. But he's not here. And the debt is slowly coming to an end. Because, as we all agree, debt under such conditions will not last much longer. As I do when many in Positive Slovenia are just sad and angry that we are in a position when for the first time in our party's life we are leading a government that we must take such unpopular measures. Measures that no one likes, but at least we do. Measures that constitute either interference with rights or an increase in, say, taxes and other obligations of the population. And I really don't see another option in a situation like this when it has to be done to seek compromise between the two. And this is what Positive Slovenia does and where we also see the city of our party. On the one hand, we have opposition colleagues who would interfere uncompromisingly with the rights, especially when they run the government, uncompromising, which would result in this country being no longer what it is. That they don't like this country the way it is, we know. They made this clear, among other things, at the last extraordinary meeting. They don't like this country, they think it's bad, I don't know what hurtful words we've heard about our country, about its officials, about the common past, and so on. It needs to be radically intertwined and done differently, so it is no big deal if we cut down all rights and go back uncompromisingly into everything that has been done — it was done wrong anyway. That's on one side. On the other hand, we have colleagues who have been creating this country within their own party for years and it is understandable that it is difficult to give up what they have put together. Some still live in the faith that everything can be as it was, that the levels of rights can remain that way and that nothing can be reached. And we all wish we were. It's just not possible anymore. These times have passed, and the illusion that the crisis is something transitional that we need to squeeze is a little debt and will pass, these illusions have collapsed. That is why in Positive Slovenia we see ourselves in one middle between these two positions and we are looking for a compromise, a common compromise in the direction of not giving a social state. Absolutely not. We want the level of rights to be maintained as much as possible, but at some European level, we do not agree that a large part of the population can, but I do not think large in terms of absolute numbers, but all too many people are exploiting this system. Our policy is aimed at strengthening in particular the control system, saying that those who really need it are entitled to social rights. Such people, who themselves cannot ensure that they exist for some legitimate reason, must not stand side by side. But it is all too much in this country of some provinces that abuse our well-developed social system. These are all those of whom you Members like to talk about in terms of bringing the BMW to kindergarten, and there all their three children have a free kindergarten, and they could also list. It is difficult to steer between these two extremes and it is even difficult to expect anyone here to be satisfied, but it is also difficult to listen to the debates of some Members, what should be done, and what Members who freely say that they have been in Parliament for 17, 20 years, in this or that coalition led the government in the time of the holy cows, etc. Then why didn't they do all this if it's so simple? That's what I keep asking myself. They're on the government, they do some things that don't turn out to be good, because as a society, we don't move on with big steps, and then when they come to the opposition, then again, what should be needed, what should be done, and they didn't do anything! But I'm not just thinking about the big parties that bear the most responsibility, and sometimes I see that SDS understands what it means to bear responsibility. The easiest thing, of course, is to speak to small customers who never bear the primary responsibility. SLS is sometimes in one coalition, sometimes in another and full of mouths, what needs to be done and what we should do and how we are all fools not to do it. But then it's hard to do it in life. And when I listened to my colleague in his 20-minute debate on how they're offering us a hand and why we're not taking it, etc., I'm going to say a few more things in an area that I know a little bit more. If you insult someone all the time, you humiliate them, you push them, you criminalize them, you trigger them, it's in theory, negative feelings. And negative feelings prevent rational, normal dialogue. If you've been insulting us all the time, how incompetent Positive Slovenia is, criminals themselves, I don't know, we're a piece of shit today, then, colleagues, you can't expect one dialogue from us, because that's not how it works. We are trying to be respectful and talk to you at some level, which in the long term would in Parliament and in society sanitize our bad relations, but not to pour this poison, this acid on the fire of this hatred, that it only increases the division of society among people. And this is a division at all levels: between the real sector and the public sector, between farmers and workers in cities or urban areas, then between pensioners and young people. You're trying to make a split between all levels of the population. That's wrong. The last time Minister Pličanič concluded the court law, he said that "it will save us a green and genuine human relationship" – and I smiled at myself – well, what does this have to do with the law on courts and judicial service? Then I was thinking at home. That is exactly what will save us – genuine human relations, that we will be able to talk and overcome differences between us in terms of compromise, for which we all now see that it is necessary. The money's gone, and the debt's gone. So, only within what we have can we make the wisest decisions. Something small in taxes, in revenue, something small in rights. This is the policy advocated by Positive Slovenia; the policy of agreement and compromise, as demonstrated daily by the President of the Government. If I respect anything about her, it's her ability to talk and to have a dialogue. This approach is already seen at all levels, including in the public, where the situation has at least calmed down a little, although people, in terms of how it is, cannot be satisfied. I conclude my debate by saying that this balance is essentially a fire extinguisher. According to some colleagues, he is too ambitious to reduce spending – one would reduce more – others think he is too optimistic – to still guarantee some level of rights, hoping for, I don't know, some miracle that will happen, and somewhere in the middle is probably a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that there must be people in Parliament who must not be burdened with emotion and with everything when it comes to taking solutions that are essential and crucial for the functioning of the country. I think we are people here for this and with this interest to take the solutions that are necessary and best for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not how we view certain things as members of a party. I find this kind of discussion rather unhelpful. There were a lot of things said today. First of all, I would like to say that, like all of us here in Parliament, we know exactly that the budget is being adopted for the whole year, the entire annual period. This was also done by the 2012 government of Janez Janša. Because today there has been a lot of talk that the 2013 budget has been poorly prepared, foreshadowed, overblown, unrealistic and so on. Personally, if the government of Janez Janša were not to be demolished, the situation would certainly be completely different now. If the budget were implemented by the government of Janez Janša, which had a clear strategy, clear measures and clear objectives, the budget would be completely viable and this balance would not be needed in the way you are preparing it. So many big words! If the current government or coalition were capable and it did not have a strategy, it does not have clear measures and clear objectives as to how to move Slovenia forward, of course, it should not have allowed the overthrow of the government of Janez Janša. At the time, I was sure, and I said that, and I repeat that, it was the biggest mistake at that moment, when we knew very well what was going on in international markets, what was going on with the economy in our country and so on. But despite all this, due to the excessive desire for power and power, there were several parties in Parliament to overthrow the government of Janez Janša, which is why we are here today. That's why we're here today. How can you all look at the ground now, or almost everyone, thank God, some of you have now looked up when you know exactly what is the underlying reason for the problem we are facing?Oh, my God! The underlying reason for the problem we are facing and for which this country is also facing! How much money and jobs have fallen precisely because of how much more interest we pay in international monetary markets and so on, so that I don't explain that I don't want to go into the details. You all know that very well. Once again I would like to say very clearly, I have said many times in Parliament one and very important thing: it is not possible to spend more than we produce. Go to the family budget, go to the farm, go anywhere you want, and see if you make 500 euros, you can't spend 700, you can't. If you spend them, you can do it in a way that you can credit, two, three, four, five, six months, and then once the loan is done, the credit is gone, you have to pay interest, you have to pay credit and you have to survive. This is what every ordinary person knows — everyone! But we are moving here in Parliament, and the government is moving, and we are all moving on and on and on and on and on again and again more than we are producing. And we know exactly what to do. If we did what we know, what needs to be changed, we would step together without a problem, I am sure there would be no dispute between us; and it is not political affiliation. The Slovenian people do not care who is in the SD, SDS or the United List or Virant List and so on. That's not what people are interested in! People are interested in the results and how much they have left in their wallet. This is a fundamental and crucial issue. This balance of the budget reduces investment funds. There is also a decrease of €70 million in investment in local communities. It also follows from this rebalancing that the European Fund will reduce its use of funds. We know exactly that now, 2013, the last year of the financial perspective, and we know exactly how the state should act so that it should maximize its involvement in order to draw as much from the European funds as possible, because this is the only fresh money coming into the Republic of Slovenia right now – and none of it! Let's take a look at the other side. We have new taxes, VAT increases, property taxes are being prepared, i.e. increases in the payment of cadastral income, then yesterday I heard that even a crisis tax is possible by the end of the year, then an increase in the penalty in forestry, then an increase in the payment of income and so on and so on. If you think that the country will, on the one hand, increase taxes, which also result in lower consumption, increase the non-competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, and on the other hand reduce investment and the flow of European money into the Slovenian treasury, which also has consequences for further job losses, instead of the necessary new jobs. A third party: that public spending may increase, rather than diminish. If anyone in the coalition and in the National Assembly believes that such a balance is the right solution or the right way out of Slovenia from the crisis, he is wrong. It is clear that the solutions you are proposing are at the expense of the vast majority of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so it would be right to stop doing such damage and to take decisions that will benefit most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I think you know what that means. If we want, there is still enough room for manoeuvre to move together, there is still, and we stop sharing. There are a whole bunch of such key projects that we should carry out in order to get this country out of this vicious circle. But, surely, once again, I can say with all certainty: not in the way you suggested. Let us sit together and find the right solutions together. When the government was led by the Slovenian Democratic Party and Janez Janša, we had clear goals, as I said, and a clear way out of the crisis. Jasen! If part of this is taken into account what we are proposing, and what you are doing now, if we find a common path, I am sure that it is also possible to find some appropriate solutions to the exit from the crisis for the Slovenian nation at some point in time. However, if the matter is going this way as it is now, I am sure that we are getting closer to what no one in this Slovenia wants. Nobody! I think we're getting close to the bankruptcy of our country; and that's what's worst! Today, one of my friends has already warned that people will feel this when there will be no more first in the month of retirement, and the fifth will not be paid for all public servants and so on. That's when the emergency comes. Please all those who now have opportunities and can influence that our countries and our people do not lead to this situation. You don’t lead to this situation, because that would be then — you know what that means if it did. When we gained our independence in Slovenia, we had a clear goal of what we want, we succeeded in the first step, we succeeded in the second step, we want a third, that the life of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would be normal, if not very good and quality. We could do that if we did not have so many of those botts, individuals, thieves and robbers that brought this country to this point that today it must be restored by a poor man, a farmer, a worker and those who have a salary and a pension of 300, 400, 500 euros. It is shameful how far some individuals and some elites have brought this land. How long are we going to wait for this to end? Tell me how much longer. How long will people be watching us? How long? We're all here, no matter what position you're in. It's the same for everything. This has to be done. This problem with our banks – how long will we wait to solve this problem? How long are we going to wait for our small entrepreneurs, middle-sized craftsmen and entrepreneurs, as well as larger businesses, to be able to apply for credit and get money so that they can start working and not fall from day to day? Go look, healthy companies fall, healthy craftsmen and entrepreneurs fall! Talk to them, and they will explain the reasons. When you have prepared all this strategy, all these taxes and so on, it would be right to take all these circumstances into account and find solutions, because you know exactly what we live on in this country. We do not live on what we are discussing here, we live on what is being done; what is being done in the factory, what those workers who produce and so on do. This is what we live on, not what we say! The word is too small for people to survive. Therefore, it is good that many times — and it would be right if we were already elected — we listened to people to tell us what we need to know so that economists can tell us what they need. They've said it a hundred times! We have a whole bunch of these manuals sent to Parliament by the Chamber of Commerce on the table. At least what you would expect is that the government structures and those who are responsible, at least this manual, would see what is written there. Not that solutions are adopted that are diametrically contrary to what economists, entrepreneurs, and craftsmen write. I think we should end this one time. I am asking you, if you see that you don't master things, if you see that you don't have the right view or the right approach; whether you change it or give the possibility that this country will be driven by those who really have a clear goal, a clear strategy and know exactly what they want. And that we will not all be hated in this House when I read every day in the newspaper that we are only corrupts Personally distance myself from this, because it is shameful, which I have been reading in newspapers lately, that we are all thieves ourselves, that we are all corrupt and so on! [[...]] That's embarrassing. I have never done this and before the entire Slovenian public I must say what was on my heart. It is a shame that all of us sitting in the same Parliament fall into the same basket, regardless of who is to blame and who is not to blame. This isn't right and it's not fair. That is why I believe that people will, at some point in time, judge — not by customers, but by people; those who work truly with the soul and heart for them, and those who work for their ass, for their fat pockets, and for their millions. There are also quite a few people sitting in our Parliament who have fat millions, whether they sat down to make no wrong claim. It's sad because today you know how hard it is to get to a million euros, how hard it is to get to it, even on a fair path. To conclude: I will not support this rebalancing, I will not support it in any way, because I think it is to the detriment of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and will make the situation worse in this country. However, I cannot wish for this in this given situation, and I will not support this balance in this way either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. And the debate will continue. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u76	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! Initially, the 2012 budget of the Republic of Slovenia was drawn up around the months of October and November, when there was actually a different macroeconomic environment and the previous forecasts were significantly different than they were now. Given the change in the macroeconomic environment and a different forecast, it was expected that the current government of Alenka Bratušek would have to come to Parliament with a budget balance, but this budget balance, when we look at it, is at least once again a major disappointment to the current government of Alenka Bratušek, for several reasons. Before the government met before the government sat down on its chairs, we could, above all, hear from current Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek and the current Minister of Economy that the red thread of this government will be the development of the economy, the opening of new jobs, the creation of a competitive environment for the economy and the launching of new investments. In the first 30 days, when this government sat down and began to work, the words turned out to be something else. The government's first actions were to raise taxes; to raise taxes on the economy, to burden taxpayers and to reduce consumption. There was a new shock: the budget rebalancing. This budget rebalancing is very undeveloped and is actually taking most of the money from areas of investment, as I mentioned earlier, but this government has always said when it was still in the opposition that a start-up of the economy is needed, new investments are needed, there is a need to ensure an environment in which the economy can work; but now that you have a chance to do something, you are working in the opposite direction. Once again, I will say that it is normal and there is a budget rebalancing in view of changes in the macroeconomic environment, in view of the change in the forecast, but at least for me personally, it is a great disappointment that there has been such a rebalancing as we now have on the table. When most money is taken primarily from the economy, the Ministry of Economy will decrease by 13.2 % in this balance. This means that more than 62 million euros are taken from him. On the other hand, when you raised the value added tax, that was the first measure of this government, the upper rate of two percentage points, the lower rate of 1.5 – good. I quietly expected and hoped that this tax that you have raised would somehow try to return to the economy, so that at least one part of the revenue you are collecting when you are burdening the economy will be returned with some new investments. No! No! Moreover, you are taking additional funds from the economy. They promise and predict new taxes, you predict real estate taxes, there's been a lot of talk about crisis taxes. All of these are measures that are actually stifling the economy, which are reducing family budgets and which will in no way be able to save the economy and this crisis. I am sure that this budget balance will not burden the company, but will burden them further, this budget balance will not open new jobs, and this budget balance is not the way out of the crisis. It should be stressed that the Government is also increasing excise duties, including yesterday's increase in oil derivatives, so shows, despite the fact that the mechanisms are clear. Undoubtedly, all budget lines show that excise policy is wrong. We are increasing excise duties, but the revenue in the budget is lower. This means that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are burdened and the budget has lower revenues. This is not a proper policy. You are lifting an RTV contribution, there was a lot of talk about why the RTV contribution is rising so that RTV can function normally so that we can watch the normal program. But now we read that you have cut off the broadcasts; but you have cut off those broadcasts that you do not like. That's not good. In the last period, we have listened, mainly by government representatives and representatives of the coalition. In one word, I thought you'd been using the term "stabilisation" more than once. Stabilization is a term that reminds me of the early 1980s when we talked about economic stabilisation under the leadership and tactics of Milka Planinc. Economic stabilisation brought us a lot of negative things, we were without washing powder, we were without oil derivatives, we had a couple of odds; we had vouchers, we had deposits to go across the border, and I'm worried that this policy will continue somehow. On the other hand, this budget rebalancing in other matters raises matters; you raise the public sector's salaries by seven million, increases pension expenditure, I assume this is a privileged pension, and increases expenditure for the former president of the country. However, you are reducing expenditure mainly in the field of investment, in the field of the economy. There has been a long talk and we have heard many times today that this budget has been prepared unrealistically and even when the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats were in opposition that this budget is unrealistic. If this budget were really as unrealistic as you say today, it would not reduce the expenditure of this budget by just 0.26% or about 25 million. More than once today was an interesting separation of colleagues Kociprova, how should we step together, how the SDS behaves when it is in a position when it is in government, and otherwise, then we are exceptionally smart Now I am interested, Members and Members of SD and Positive Slovenia, how much do you feel responsible for the balance of this budget? [[...]] For there are many things in this budget and rebalancing that go towards increased expenditure on interest and indebtedness to Slovenia. It took you a year to confirm the fiscal rule. You've been investing referendums on a bad bank, you've been investing referendums on government property management. All these matters have helped to ensure that Slovenia, as a country, lost its credit ratings, that we had to be more in debt than outside. Undoubtedly, the SDS is a party of principle, even in the opposition we needed a fiscal rule. But it took you a year, a year to come to that knowledge! There is also much at the expense of your policy as a policy of the opposition that this rebalancing must have taken place. It is particularly worrying that funds for the implementation of European projects and European money are being largely reduced. This should be the red thread, the red thread of the Slovenian economy and the power of the budget, and you are lowering these funds! I would like to ask the Secretary of State and the Government: Minister Šuštersič signed a loan agreement with the European Investment Bank in December for EUR 500 million. EUR 500 million exclusively for structural projects. This money would be more expensive if Slovenia took it on the market. What's going on with this loan? Why do you reduce the use of European funds if you have a EUR 500 million contract in your drawer that allows a 25-year loan with a moratorium of 7 years and a very low interest rate!? I have a feeling you're not capable or you don't know how to go. You're lowering these funds, but you've talked before about the development of investments and all that. You have all the options, but you're not taking advantage of them. What did you do with the recovery of your tax debt? Tax debt in Slovenia is more than €950 million. 950 million euros!, as we read, this tax debt has increased in the last month. The budget would be in surplus if they could only collect taxes that some owe. In excess! 950 million are companies and various individuals owed to Slovenia. These individuals drive prestigious cars, use prestigious yachts, live in prestigious properties, and people who earn 500 euros pay for this crisis. That's not good. 950 million Euros of uncollected taxes! Dear Secretary of State, comment! Half of these funds, if we got them back, would probably be very good. A non-exploited contract with the European Investment Bank of EUR 500 million. There's a lot of options. And don't say that the opposition only speaks negatively! We're giving you suggestions. What's most disturbing to me is that tomorrow the paper will say, "The National Assembly has accepted the budget balance." That's not true! This balance of the budget, which is not development-oriented, which is not good for the economy, will be adopted by the current government and the current coalition. Personally, I will not support such a budget balance because this balance is strongly negative for the economy, strongly negative. The only way out of the crisis is, of course, the start of the economy. You still have a chance with certain amendments to remedy this matter. It is also worrying that in the media and probably the real situation is, we can read that in the early autumn we will get a new budget rebalancing. The Minister of Economy, who is unfortunately no longer with us today, has not denied this in the Committee on the Economy. Undoubtedly, however, the most clear signal is the European Commission's signal two days ago. I believe that the bulk of these observations and these warnings stem from this balance drawn up by the current government. Also, the professional public, the Economic Chamber, does not favour such a balance of the budget. The Slovenian Democratic Party does not favour this either. We have said that this budget is highly underdeveloped; you have the possibility that the matter will improve further. For the economy needs to be revived, the economy needs to be helped, not strangled. This rebalancing of Slovenia's budget will not lead to the crisis; this budget balance will deepen the Slovenian crisis; this budget balance will not open new jobs and this balance is not developmental and is not targeted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Pogačnik. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Let me start by saying that I will support this proposal for a budget rebalancing. This is a response to the budget adopted by the previous government. We have not adopted the previous budget and we have not confirmed it, and it has also been written in the media that the National Assembly has approved the budget. Today, when we respond to a budget that has certain gaps and needs to be rectified, we hear from the opposition how indeveloped we are, how inhuman we are and so on. I would only point to Darwin's river, which says that the smartest and most powerful won't win, but those who adapt as quickly as possible. Our government had to adapt to the situation and also to the situation. I am confident that such and similar adjustments will be necessary and I will be happy to see that all the others who are sitting here today in the National Assembly need to be constantly adjusted. There was a lot of talk about sitting together. Listen, we didn't sit apart; we're sitting here together, in the National Assembly, and on committees. There was a lot of talk. We talked a lot. There's been a lot of talk about this rebalancing. Believe me, everything you have said in good faith — not to be liked — is and will be taken into account. Of course, I'll take that as a precaution. It is obvious, however, that we are sitting here Members of different views, different political options. When you prepared the budget and your views went in some direction, we opposed and warned you. As far as you are concerned, today you can see the situation of this country. You have taken no account of the well-intentioned initiatives and proposals! And today you are asking us to follow you on a path that has gone in another direction — the decommissioning of the social state. That's what you wanted. Decommissioning of public education – you wanted to cut into the normative parts; what we do not interfere with. We are following what the European Union and the European Parliament have come to know. The European Parliament has increased its funding for education, as it follows that investment in education and in human beings is the best investment. And if anything, then so did we in this rebalancing. For 22 million, the education line has increased. It's a man's stake. You know, I'm listening to how the economy will save us – no, people will save us! And not just those in the economy, but all of them. You know, when we say that only those workers will save, the hat down to all those who work and bring more added value, but more added value are given by doctors, people in education, teachers, culturers and so on. You know, the biggest added value of this government is that people aren't so afraid anymore, people aren't upset, but today I heard you scare people again. You know, people who are scared don't feel well and aren't that productive. How do you get out of the crisis? You were talking about investments to reduce investments. Not by any means, but certain investments that have not been prepared, which do not have the relevant documents, cannot be carried out and then the European funds cannot be drawn up. It is not only about European funds, but every European investment or investment donated by cohesion must also be given its own resources. These are not in this budget, because in the budget you left us, there is a 600 million hole. In the absence of such a hole, certain investments that we now had to delete would have been made. Look, in the area of culture, certain investments have been made in the rehabilitation of sacral buildings, which can wait. However, the programmes that are being implemented are not shrinking, even 22 programmes are more, although some resources are less. So there has been a dialogue between the minister and the contractors that they can and that they will be able to do more with less. And that worked! And always succeeds when dialogue is appropriate, when a relationship is appropriate and where good cooperation is involved. That's what we want. You know, you don't have to be scared and scare people that we're less into people than you are. Just as we love this country and people like you, we only show it in a different way: not with criminal policy, but with stimulation, motivation and appropriate dialogue. That's why I'm going to support this rebalancing, but I don't want people to feel like we're taking anything with it. You know, the European Commission and the banks are not just like that, because the Prime Minister is a woman, they put off two years and a loan. If our country hadn't received this loan, we wouldn't be talking today about the balance we've drawn up ourselves, but today we would have gotten to the table of the balance table of the threesome. In this way, I would also like to congratulate the Government and the President, as well as the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Kavticnik. Mr. Branko Ficko has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Good-bye, everyone. Why is the rebalance or better term the 2013 budget correction prepared by the previous government? Sometimes you get the feeling that quotas are being set, how many individual users have to spend. But this balance corrects items that were misjudged or planned by the former government of John Janša. What do I think they were doing wrong? If a number of measures have been taken on the expenditure side, including positive measures, they have been completely disregarded, in particular as regards economic work, and they have caused an even greater economic recession, particularly by over-indebted companies. The estimates show that by the end of the year, they would have made a global total of 365 million less revenue than planned, of which a majority of about 125 million would have been charged to the income of legal persons, resulting from incorrect measures and the use of funds. This would, of course, increase the deficit to 1.8 billion or 5% of GDP. Most of this hole is also due to four years of late bank resolution. What could this government have done in this situation if it wanted to get the deficit below 3% of GDP by 2015? The economy depends on the resolution of the banking system or excessive indebtedness, in particular the lack of equity, and cannot expect results in the short term; of course, this government must increase short-term revenues in a different way. Of course, it's a lack of love, such as raising VAT, excise duties, other taxes. The second option would be on the expenditure side, reducing public expenditure: social, health, education. In particular, social expenditure increased by around 900 million between 2008 and 2011, while in 2012 it decreased by 150 million. The maximum share here is pensions, which increased by about 450 million in 2008-2011 and an additional 150 million in this year. Of course, there are also greater compensations for unemployment and other social expenditure, we know, due to bankruptcy, there are no new jobs and so on. The next area could be public investment, which has already decreased by about 500 million over the period 2010-2012, which has had a negative impact on GDP. In 2013, it further decreased by 150 million. Then, of course, we wonder what we could lower. Retirement? They're already frozen. Public sector wages have already fallen twice, provided that services need to remain at the same level, so that there is very little room here for this government. It is true, however, that individual measures are unpopular. When I also listened to you on the boards, all those who have been creators in the previous government and you have been here for a long time, perhaps even too long, that the balance is incoherent, that it will not stimulate the economy and so on, we should ask you what you have been doing so far, when more money has been available. Even at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where there is up to 62 million less money, we could then ask ourselves where the results of the funds you had last year are. What did they invest in, who shared, how did the money split? Because, after all, only jobs and added value count. After all, we will not forget the statement made by the previous economic minister, who has been telling us all year about individual packages in the sense of Christmas or, of course, defending the economic policy of the previous government. Therefore, the 2013 budget assessment will reveal many of the differences assessed by the previous government, and it was necessary to take action in the context of the possibility that this balance sheet would ensure public financial stability. This is, in addition to revitalising economic growth, one of the key priorities of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. At the end of this cycle, Mrs Mag. Matthew the Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much again for your word. Some statements require at least a short response. First, as regards the revenue side of the budget or the proposed changes on the revenue side. In the debate, it was clear to me that I did not mention in my first debate a plan or plan to increase VAT revenues. If you have listened to me carefully, I have mentioned this effect and because of the correctness of the information, it is also necessary to tell the public that VAT rates are indeed increasing by two percentage points, as far as the general level is concerned, but only for a "one" percentage point at a lower rate and not a percentage point and a half. However, it is not possible to talk about the effects of changing the methodology for the calculation of cadastral income or crisis tax in this budget rebalancing. Although the latter is forecast in the stability programme, for 2014, if the measures were not agreed on on the expenditure side of the budget. It must also be made clear that excise duties do not increase. The plan was to increase electricity excise duties under the adopted budget, but the previous government of this measure in December or in January of this year did not realise, nor at any time later, and this government decided that the increase in electricity consumption, which is also widely used for production purposes, was inappropriate in terms of measures to minimise the impact of the economy and decided to increase or intervene on those indirect taxes which have an impact on final consumption, but the least possible impact on economic operators which, through the system of reimbursement or deduction of entry tax, could receive VAT refunded from the State budget. I can agree with the Member, who mentioned in his debate that the precise planning of the revenue side of the budget is an ungrateful business and a lot depends on assumptions that cannot be affected, but he also mentioned that it is possible to plan the expenditure side very precisely. Certainly there are situations on the expenditure side of the budget where not all expenditure can be planned even within very precise frameworks, but I cannot possibly think that it is possible to forget the 140 million transfers that need to be made to the pension fund or the 100 million that need to be provided to pay the interest. It is true that public debt servicing costs are getting higher every year and are worrying, but we must say that €820 million of planned expenditure for these purposes in the budget balance is not due to this year's debt. These are expenditure of 800 million that we need to service the debt we had at the beginning of this year. To service this year's debt, we need about 20 million euros this year, and additional costs will be incurred later. It has been mentioned several times that this budget is not development-oriented, but when we hear those words, we must first ask ourselves what developmental orientation means. Does this mean, in essence, that there is no reduction in planned expenditure in the area, such as the Ministry of Economy, or that there is a reduction in expenditure in those segments that are not directly related to the economy? Here is a very big question, what are those measures that concern direct budgetary expenditure, which are the basis for creating an enabling development environment for the economy. Nevertheless, it must be said that expenditure of €405 million is provided to the Ministry of Economy in the A balance sheet alone. In last year's implementation, the Ministry implemented or spent €331 million and €700,000 for approximately the same programmes. In addition, this amount, €405 million from the A balance sheet, needs to be added to at least €120 million from the B balance sheet, which is dedicated to the so-called financial engineering to be carried out through the Bank's SID and this €120 million public money will be refined by the Bank's SID with 2 to 3 times the amount on the market of the funds acquired. This whole package of funds will be intended for various incentive or assistance programmes to the economy, both to create new jobs and to preserve quality existing jobs. Furthermore, the debate mentioned that we are increasing funding for culture and education. In my first debate, I have already mentioned that the budget adopted was planned for a 10% to 15% reduction in transfers to public institutions; most of the public institutions are in the field of the Ministry of Education and Education. If we look at how resources are allocated through the budget balance and compare the common budget that this culture and education implemented in the past year at €880 000, we can see that it is €873 million in the balance of this year's budget for these purposes. So we can't talk about increasing funds, but we can talk about maintaining the level that was provided last year. Several times there has been a threat that this rebalancing means that at the end of the year there will be no payment for salaries, so that at the end of the year this balance will run out of pension funds. Just the opposite! Because we add 140 million to the pension fund – and this is not about privileged pensions, but it is about eliminating the constitutionally inadequate solution from the Public Finance Balance Act and ensuring regular transfers in the pension register. Because this is now ensured by the balance sheet, it will not be threatened to pay pensions in December as well. We're running out of wages, we've heard the threat. Yes, there would be no pay if we left the budget in the deficits, as they were prepared by the budget adopted. And it's not true that we're increasing wage funds just like that! I have already mentioned, in the area of wage policy, an agreement with the unions has provided for 108 million and a half savings, and therefore these funds are only increasing by 4 million and a half and not by 112 million, to the extent that they need to be increased, in order to secure wages, given that no agreement has been reached with the trade unions at the same time as the budget was adopted, how such a volume of wage was actually guaranteed. When we talk about preparing the economy or creating the conditions for the economy to recover, we also said over and over again in the stability programme, which is the first programming document of this government, that, in addition to consolidating public finances, the recovery of the banking system is important for the recovery of the economy, in order to reopen the credit lines and, on the other hand, to repay businesses. Good companies also have little equity these days, given how much debt they need. Measures are also being prepared for this purpose; some have already been discussed by Parliament; others will be discussed at the beginning of autumn. I was asked a direct question about drawing on the European Investment Bank's credit. This is a loan which is intended to pay for Slovenian participation in drawing on European funds. All the conditions are now finally met, including all the necessary protocols signed, so that it is possible to draw up. I was asked a question regarding the recovery of tax debt. Indeed, it raises tax debt and this reflects the general state of indebtedness in the country and the general state of indebtedness of the economy. I submit that most of this debt is linked to business entities that do not want to, but simply because of the situation in which they have gone down, cannot pay this tax debt. Most of this tax debt is related to companies which are either in compulsory settlement or bankruptcy. In other words, in those areas where there are cases of excellence or where there are cases where individuals or companies actually wish to avoid paying the tax improperly, the measures are exacerbated. The new tax administration information system is beginning to produce first results, enforcement procedures are being initiated faster than they have been in previous years, and thus the possibility of effective recovery or actual payment of the tax debt is also increased. We also hope for additional effects by putting in place a measure on the prohibition of deleting and modifying data in relation to invoices issued, which came up with July 1st and should give first results in early autumn. While the proposal for a rebalancing contains only 20 million revenues in the second income tax item instead of the previously planned 50 million, this does not mean that we are reducing our ambitions to increase efforts to recover the tax debt, which means that those measures that have resulted in the first half of this year have increased revenues on individual items, either income or VAT, or corporate income tax. These revenues are not managed under the heading Second Tax, which is why it is realistic to expect that the effects will be around EUR 20 million in the second half of this year. More could be expected after the tax administration's efforts, but we have decided here to adopt a conservative approach to planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vranitz. Now I ask whether there may still be a desire to discuss the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. So I am opening a debate, please apply. Thank you very much, eight debaters have been reported. Mr Franz Bogovich has been reported as the first debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u84	Nice greetings, ladies and gentlemen, who are still here, once again on my side! Today, too, it has been said several times that this is some kind of fire-fighting action that solves the situation that was obviously wrong last year and that we are not talking about some important document, but we are just correcting last year's mistakes, but how it will continue to be crucial in the 2014 budget. I have a different opinion and I am firmly convinced, as I have tried to show in the position of the Group that it is high time for us to really imagine in Slovenia not only what we did last year, what we did before last year, but probably the last ten years; certainly a thorough reflection on the policy that has been going on since 2009 when the economic crisis took place and when we first seriously agreed to these financial tests during Slovenia's independent period. That is why I have also presented this position of the Group in such a way that it was possible to look at real data and try to find answers to these questions. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we offered this cooperation deadline. Those of you who have also been in the previous mandate of the National Assembly know that from these benches, about where I am now, we have also very responsibly supported the pension reform and many of the measures that we have estimated to be leading in the right direction. That is why we also want to do so now. I can say calmly that we are acting in such a way that it is not our desire to frighten anyone, to make any kind of division in society, to bring together individual groups of this society, but to try to integrate these groups. So once again: allow me to express my own, some initial disagreement, resentment over how this budget rebalancing was presented today. Normally – at least a presentation of this balance sheet, policies led by this balance sheet – was presented at least in a half-hour intervention by the President of the Government with the assistance of those who are most responsible for the situation in the banking system, namely the representative of Umarja and also the representative of the Bank of Slovenia. Today was nothing but what we've been listening to for the past three months, what we've been blaming the people who ran the country last year. I think, as I wanted, that the problems are significantly deeper and that Slovenian politics should finally find so much wisdom, maturity, that they sit together and also talk about some things that, you don't want, some taboo of the topic in this country and from which we are running away, we are failing, our financial situation and the state of the country is falling down, from being five years back as a success story, to some very troubled country today, which is more problematic and from day to day also gets more serious and sharper warnings that what we are doing is not worth it and that something needs to be changed on this path. That is why, as I have already been told today, I am not in any way agreeing that with some cuts that would go into dozens of percent, they would interfere with some systems, but that we must first look into things and decide on certain changes, things that have gone wrong for us. If I can just name a few. Surely we can peacefully note that there are many wrongs in our educational system if, as has been said here today, we receive graduates from day to day for whom jobs are very difficult to find. Our Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs was a short time ago on a tour of the school system in Germany. I myself have had the opportunity in recent days to get to know Scandinavian systems and deal with these things. I can say calmly that we continue to insist on a definition where the school system is far from the economy, but I am not just talking about personnel standards, I am also talking about material standards, where the kindergarten department cannot be built for less than 200 000 euros, this material part. If we do not have this crust and sit responsible together, we also have a certain degree of action in a number of areas, and in the coming years, we are not doing well. At the time of the budget rebalancing, this is an opportunity to raise such questions. As has been said many times, in health care doctors now talk a lot about the fact that a lot of things are wrong. Social transfers are also becoming more and more frequent about the abuse of social transfers, and these are also things that need to be talked about, or measures to be found, which will plague the grey economy and so on. That is why I think that this dialogue is needed within Parliament, within all the parties. It is not enough that we speak here in front of the cameras and try, in some way, to keep an eye on this political base that everyone is trying to represent, and in the end we are adopting or proposing measures that are not sustainable and are not going in the right direction. I think it would be necessary to talk about the very organisation of the public sector – what has already been said here today. Isn't our system, what everyone is telling us, too liberal, too regulated to respond to too much at the state level, instead of letting a lot of this go to a lower level, even to the local community? However, it is not in a way that someone provocatively throws out a law and a flat-rate assessment of how 100 municipalities should be abolished and thus revolutionized by the Slovenian public. On the other hand, we are talking so much about the projected taxes, which is a very clear policy of your government, which, as we all have found, is ahead of us only two budgets: this year's budget, through a rebalancing, and two for which it is necessary to adopt a policy, which is obviously due to very different views, which was also surprising from the discussions within the coalition Members themselves, where they are trying to try a simple hole that is forming, to patch up on the side of ever-new and new taxes. Therefore, we are now reminded of the threatening tax forecasts, where someone has found that almost 500 million taxes can come from the present 190 million in the real estate area; and even more so if the congregations so wish. These are the things that we should have at the beginning of the mandate – because after the government's collapse one year ago this year again in the first year of these three years, I expected us to talk about this at this level in Parliament before the adoption of this year's budget rebalancing and the forecasting of policy for next year. This policy is not meant to be perceived by these per partes of announced measures of new laws, which you represent to the Slovenian public every week, even from the daily needs of politics. As far as certain items of this year's budget are concerned, I think it is right that we should say again what has already been said here today. This year, European funds will be reduced, as we see again from the budget, the agricultural part is relatively normal, the congestion is evident in the structural funds, so the social fund is relatively normal, not regionally, but also a backlog in the absorption of cohesion funds. Since these withdrawals are so much less, so much less revenue, half of these 530 million, it is said to be 275 million, but less income from Europe. I hope that we will make up for these revenues within the next two years, when it is still possible to draw on these European funds. I myself had the opportunity to run the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment last year and I can tell you firsthand how it was in the environmental work. As I have already said, the agricultural work ran smoothly, in the environmental work there was simply a blockade in a wide variety of areas, including within the Ministry, a major problem in negotiating with the Ministry of Finance. Finally, we broke through the ice by giving these additional rights of use for 180 million. My colleague, the Jew, and I spoke to him for the last time, and he told me that he would have the opportunity to sign contracts, because there are now approximately 500, 600 million completed calls for co-financing from the environment and for the next two years to draw on this money. I understand that this cannot be exhausted this year, because the invitations have now expired in the month of May, June, July. However, with quick work and successful implementation, there is some possibility that we will draw on this in the next two years. In doing so, so many times the wrong planning, it is possible that this government will have the opportunity to bring 250 million additional European funds into the state treasury within the next two years. However, I hope that you will do as we did last year when we had every Thursday before the meeting of ministers responsible for drawing on European funds. Mag. Zerjav, the Minister of Economic Affairs, led this coordination and we were all ministers, including infrastructure, environment, agriculture, social, health, which were in charge. According to my information, this coordination is no longer necessary. It is no longer necessary to report to the government once a month and to report these progress. If it is – I hope that you will deny me and that this policy, which is truly crucial, will continue and that these resources will then also be absorbed. As far as further action is concerned, and also the broader framework that I was trying to show at the outset. Today we are really only talking about the budget rebalancing. However, the budget rebalancing, says also the consolidation of public finances, is one of the key lessons of the stability programme of the National Reform Programme, which we have put forward in Brussels. In this programme, we have made it very clear that we will carry out the consolidation of public finances. According to our assessment, these policies, which have been imposed, are still illegal or are only going in the direction of new taxes — we are not doing so in the right way. On the other hand, we are very afraid that there are not steps in the area of bank rehabilitation fast enough and that we are obviously also getting some reminders about the way we work, for the transparency of this work. I am afraid that again in this process, someone will try to selectively tackle this process, a little under the carpet, and to clear up these errors of Slovenian managers, who have made most of this public debt and also had certain political botres – that it is also a problem. We therefore have a major problem that the European Commission does not trust us to do this transparently, clearly and that this is not the right way. I hope you'll be convinced that this resolution of the banking system will be done as soon as possible. We are not talking any more about the Slovenian state holding company, the management of state property. Here was a block of documents that we prepared in the previous government. The new ones aren't on the table yet. All of these are elements of the stability programme, and this will be the subject of an assessment to be made at the end of October, in early November, whether we have done — let’s be honest — the homework we have received. Homework because, as I previously showed with the data, the debt increases so that those who give us these loans become concerned. First of all, this reflected the fact that we are paying at least half as much as we should and that we are paying at least 70% more than it should for interest. On the other hand, we are threatened by the fact that those on the legal market who borrow this money will no longer trust us with new loans that we will need more than obviously in the next period. We need it both for a current public deficit, we need it to reclassify credits, we need it for a bad bank. It is probably also highly dependent on what conditions Dars will be able to agree on some reprogramming of credits that should be returned next year — 400 million. It also depends on what credits our banks, our economy, our individuals will receive. I think that this budget is more than an opportunity for someone to account with the previous government, and again with the previous government, an opportunity to settle together, to realize and to give these answers, which we owe to ourselves in particular, because we are part of some monetary community, but we are under a very large detail of those to whom we represent and to whom we first count, so that we can also manage our policies with their help. That's the obvious we're sharing. I know that this budget and budget rebalancing is very difficult to draw up, and we also had a great deal of trouble last year, from this time forward, just before summer, right after the adopted rebalancing in May, with activities for the new budget. What's happening to us? Colleague Jelusic pointed out the problem in the defence sector. I also share this view that we are seriously indiscriminately interfering with certain budgets. Above all, we need to protect and rescue the fire-fighting system as a little girl in the eye, as some say, so that the most vital parts of our system, when it's our worst, do not crash in the event of accidents. There's probably a limit to where we can go in this part. I myself led last year, as has already been said, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the measures, without sharing the books to anyone who was persecuted at home, with soft measures within the system we saved about 7% of the wages; 3.5% was the overall reduction in the entire ministry; the remaining 3.4% were caught through the other measures. We should be taking all the ministries this way. But the truth is that some groups have such strong support in the unions that it is simply impossible to do so. Some measures, particularly in education, are linked to a broader agreement. To make it very clear that we will not get too close to each other: the Slovenian public sector has about 160,000 people, of which about 60,000 are in education, about 33, 34 000 on one side in health care and on the other side in government, plus municipalities and administrative units. Here we see that in these three sectors, the 85% of the public sector, and if someone is vehemently from this place, they say that nothing can happen in any way in the field of norms, in the area of wages, but that the Slovenian people are misleading. If we don't reach into these systems and do something, there's nowhere to save. In the future, these savings, I believe, will be necessary, because what has now been pointed out to be filled with this cashier on one side of the tax, but this game will not come out because those who charge these taxes will fail. In this work – as I have said before – I can say calmly that I am well aware of these spheres through work at the local level – we will simply have to sit together, reach a political agreement and move forward with consolidating these public finances. As has already been said, last year we took a major step that was attacked from all possible ends, especially by the current two coalition parties, who were not then coalition parties, and in this part I understand these problems. But not to be unclear, once again: we did not talk about the 10-, 20-, 30% cuts last year, but we did the steps that were needed, and in particular tried to frame ourselves in the framework of the mass of wages and also through the concern that the number of employees in the public sector does not increase. Not only pressure on the scale and level of wages, because I agree that there are many in the public sector, especially those of the lowest wages, even on a low level. As I have already said in the presentation of the parliamentary group, Members of the Slovenian People's Party of this budget balance will not support us, not because we want to be some evil, corrupt opposition, but because, simply in those 110 days since this government, we do not see that this is a policy that takes us in 2013, 2014, 2015, as far as our mandate is all together, if we all take it to the end, in the right direction. In this part where we see these steps, we have already ordered many times, even when adopting a fiscal rule, we have shown that we can be constructive, that we can work together, that we also know when hot passions to calm down when hot heads obviously get too hot among some. We are also prepared to continue this work. In the same way that the Government has now drawn up the budget, we will lead Slovenia in the right direction very hard. The next step, which we are delaying and delaying, is only an area of the justice system. I must say that one of the biggest negative surprises in the previous mandate was when we adopted a directive on how to combat corruption and terrorism in Europe and, above all, the fight against drug traffickers, white goods, weapons when the government proposed that a reservation should be made in the part where we talked about reverse evidence; it is said that someone would also tell you and prove where it came from. That's when I warned myself. The government, the then coalition, has passed this dead cold, and I still do not see any signs and steps in this direction today, so that those who have imported this country on the basis of their own greed and many times, as I have already said, political bots, simply examine the state of property, and part of this property is collected, especially to see that it is necessary to act honestly and responsibly in this country. I think that the field on which we will have to prove ourselves is very large for our citizens, but also for those in which part of the community we registered in 2004. In this part, we miss the fact that we can also engage creatively and that someone would like to deal with these areas. Much of what I have just talked about in a broader context should also be reflected in this year's budget rebalancing. Because, once again, I think that the assessment of what we are doing now in 2013 is very sharp and will depend on this judgment for the next decade, where Slovenia will go and what public debt we will have, how much we will pay and what the perspective of us and our children in this beautiful sub-Alpine share.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. Now he has the floor, Mr Brane Golubovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you. Nice greeting, colleague, colleague, president, government representatives! If I sum up what my colleague said before me that they expected more cooperation in the preparation of the balance, I would say that one of the major weaknesses in Slovenia is definitely a lack of cooperation, not just politics, but also in the area of the economy and elsewhere. Let us just see how in some way we do not promote integration in active employment policies. We give a subsidy to an individual, I think 4 000 500 Euros, for the creation of the S.p. It is said, despite the fact that a group of young people have an idea, they want to go into some entrepreneurship and they want to get a subsidy when they are self-employed, because they are at the Employment Institute, we stick to the fact that our employment agency can take an active employment policy in this area only so that a natural person sets up a s.p. This group of young people cannot set up a company together, they end up writing about co-operations, and get this subsidy; but let it go away. It is important to me whether Slovenia will be the enforcer of the measures prescribed by the European Commission – I would say this from the European Commission's handbook, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank – whether we will also be able to identify some of our potentials and to go our separate ways with the European Union and with the advantages that the European Union gives. Balance 2013 is certainly more focused on meeting what these three institutions require of us. Why? If you remember, March 2013 was the most common words, at the time the candidate was elected to go bankrupt, the troika has already been activated, the troika is ahead of the border – and none of this has happened, fortunately. I also believe that if what happened to the previous government had happened, that some ministers had stepped out of the government, that we would not have a threesome today, because we would have followed this path that the European Commission would have set for us. This may even be fine for 2013 but I personally expect much more from the 2014 budget and will respond accordingly. However, if we did not now discuss what this rebalancing does not bring and what it does bring, I would say that this balance, prepared by the government of Alenka Bratušek with ministers, certainly preserves the social state. Thus, we keep public education where we do not reduce resources, we maintain public health, where we do not also reduce funds – I speak for programmes – and we have an active employment policy, especially for young people, although, as I said at the outset, I still expect some more innovative approaches to promoting youth employment. Young people, after all, are different than we are, have different views and also have different ways of working. On the other hand, I cannot agree that the investment cycle with this balance sheet is halting. That's not true. There are those projects that will be realistic this year. The fact is that what the previous government has also started in the field of rail infrastructure continues. The fact is that projects are being carried along with European funds, state resources and municipal resources in the field of water and sewerage. The value of these projects is a billion euro. It is also a fact that funds are provided to promote the economy. It was said that the state budget earmarks €120 million for this and, together with the Bank's SID funds, will be allocated up to €600 to €700 million for this part. This also means that in the field of economics, this rebalance also introduces some instruments aimed at stimulating economic activities. I would take the opportunity to say again that these funds could also support certain "start-up" companies. "Start-up" companies are mainly set up by young people who are innovative people. Today we have heard much about our knowledge going abroad. Among the measures to retain this knowledge in Slovenia is an investment measure in good ideas that are verifiable. With regard to cooperation and a vision that Slovenia does not have, it should start setting up. As I said, I will have a key budget rebalancing for 2014, which will show the direction of Slovenia where we will go. Whether we will be part of an anarchic capitalist model that puts financial institutions first, and when any one of the banks is shaken, the entire political elites and everyone jumps into the air and they go to rescue it, on the other hand, when the streets of the Mediterranean European countries are filled with people who are dissatisfied, possibly hungry, without means of survival, the European Union or the leadership of the European Union is very slow to respond, and not for the benefit of these people. Finally, I would say that the role of the President of the Republic of Slovenia in the position in which we are can be very important. If we find that we do not know what our priorities are in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, the President of the Republic of Slovenia could invest his energy in bringing together capable people around us, and Slovenia certainly has a lot of knowledge and potential in people to sit together - as my colleague Puksic explained earlier, because of me they can also close down for a month - to collect capable policies, some of them in this Chamber on both sides, to gather capable economists, sociologists, not just those who are subscribers on television, to explain to us what kind of system we should have – and to agree on a strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. It does not seem necessary for this to be a comprehensive document, it can be very short, concrete, with which all those responsible in this country will identify themselves. It seems to me that the energy of the President of the Republic in one such approach would be much better used than the visits to each event in Slovenia. Finally, let me say that I will support this rebalancing because this rebalancing allows for the stable functioning of the country and also allows all the obligations, the legal obligations that the State must fulfil in December. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Golubovich. Now he has the word, Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u88	Nice greetings to all present! Allow me to start by saying a few words about the Prime Minister himself or about her today, in some way irresponsible behavior. Last year, when she was still an opposition Member, she spoke of the budget as a kind of contract with citizens, as with the people. Upon her confirmation this spring, she said that, as quite new in politics, she did not have time to resort to arrogance. If I paraphrase one of her famous statements, we could say she needed time to become arrogant. Today, we can see that this time has long come or gone. President Alenka Bratušek does not care much about what the people think about the balance. Twenty minutes later this morning, at the start of the first presentation of the Group's positions, in the first minute after the start of the Slovenian Democratic Party's position on this balance, our colleague, Andrej Vizjak, left the Chamber. This is an act in the sense of the actions of the absolute rulers, to whom it is important primarily to the people to pay taxes; and nothing more. Secondly, the next arrogance appears in a statement we have heard today, which speaks of the fact that if former Prime Minister Janez Janša did not hesitate to take office for three months, this year's deficit of the state budget would not be as high as it is likely to be. In this statement, apart from being arrogant, there are two lies. The first is that the former coalition partners, together with Positive Slovenia, failed to form together before two months and to form governments and that Janez Janša, in the meantime, ensured that the country was functioning normally. And the second part of the statement on the public financial deficit is not realistic, because the Janšev government reduced the deficit from €2 billion to €100 million in 2012 by means of a rebalancing. So, for a billion and 200 million euros. The government of Alenka Bratušek, however, is increasing the deficit from billions to EUR 550 million. So for 550 million euros. At the time, our government, or then Prime Minister Janez Janša, did nothing about how unrealistic the figures were, but did what was necessary, that the state still remained, and that it did not go bankrupt: it reduced the threatening government deficit that was adopted during the period of the Pahor government in 2011, by a billion and 200 million euros, and it was also realized. The deficit for 2012 is around €1 billion and €100 million, not €2 billion 300, as planned by the Government of Pahor for 2012. Thus, both statements by the prime ministers, regrettably, lie, suggest that in fact she has learned a very quick act of arrogance, which is not exactly proud, especially in the position of the Prime Minister. If we did so as an opposition Member, of course it is something completely different. Other facts also suggest that a number of measures were taken in the first three months of this year, which are very important, including the reform of labour law, on 8 February this year, according to the closing date of the government of Janez Janša, the next financial perspective for the period 2014 to 2020 was finally negotiated. If this had not happened and in the way that has happened, we would have even fewer opportunities to invest European funds in the next financial perspective. That relations with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia have been definitively regulated during this period, leading to Croatia becoming a full member of the European Union and so on with effect from 1 July. Of course, many other measures, particularly those relating to the rehabilitation of the banking system and the enforcement of the holding company, despite the fact that the Janša government initiated and initiated them in departure, could not be accepted because in the then opposition, particularly the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats, and some others, you opposed them. When we talk about the balance, it is wise to look forward to what will happen if this balance is adopted and where we will be at the end of this year. It is probably also good to draw on the priorities set by Alenka Bratušek as the key starting point for action at the time of her appointment. There were four of them. She said, for the first time, to start economic development. We are now in the middle of the year – where are we today, where will we be at the end of the year? All the data, not only of Umar, everyone else is talking about us seeing an even greater decline in economic growth this year than we thought well six months ago. It is said that the situation will be even more acute, that there will be fewer employees, that the poor will be even poorer in the face of forecasting new taxes, and that the richer will obviously be even richer — whether, of course, they belong to an option that is loved by the government or not. It says that the measures in this work, even if we look at individual items in the budget balance, do not go in the right direction and will not lead to changes in these bad forecasts. The second objective she set herself: to balance public finances. Where are we today and where will we be at the end of the year? Are we going to follow at least that goal? With the balance, the deficit from billions of euros increases to a billion €550 million. It is said that we are moving away from this balance of public finances; despite the introduction of significantly higher tax burdens, with July 1st, with July 15th, as we hear and in the coming months. What we have pointed out is that despite these higher tax burdens, higher VAT, the inflow will not be significantly higher or will not be higher at all, this is also recognised by the Government in the rebalancing. Because the VAT inflow is only 12 million euros higher than was planned in the budget. If the mathematics of the increased VAT were to be valid, this inflow should be at least EUR 120 to 130 million higher; that is ten times that. He won't! I also find these 12 million euros questionable because it will be undeniable that the impact will be lower in the first period and consequently less inflows from higher VAT. Thus, people will pay more, their budgets will be lower, smaller, especially those who spend most of their money on food, housing and so on. They'll be the ones most burdened because they can't avoid it. And they will be secretly taken away from them what could not be taken in a different way. Approximately half of the salary at the annual level or even more of the families will be deprived of this title. In short, the deficit after this rebalancing will be higher, not lower. According to the budget planned, it was billions, now it will be a billion five hundred and fifty million euros. If Janša’s government did the same last year, then the deficit planned by Pahor’s government of 2 billion 300 would have been reduced to 3 billion. I would say that income and expenditure were unrealistically planned and — nothing we can do about what we want. Let's keep the expenditure about the same level, figure out that there won't be that much revenue, and that's it. This is now happening in this rebalancing because revenues are falling, one large part of the smaller tax inflows, with taxes rising, about 250 million and 250 million in investment work due to less money from Europe. At the expense of the expenditure, however, the government of Alenka Bratušek remains at about the same level. We are roughly there – plus, minus 10, 20 million does not play a significant role in 9 billion and 500 million or 600 million euros, which we did not witness last year, when expenditure was reduced by about 800 million euros. Only this new commitment made by the government of Alenka Bratušek this year, around the first May holidays, will burden us with an additional EUR 400 to 600 million due to the situation in which the bond was paid about 50% higher than the bad half of a year ago. Only repayments of this debt, of course over the entire period, will mean that EUR 400 to 600 million more will have to be spent on interest. This was acknowledged by the Prime Minister herself at one of the meetings when we discussed the introduction or entry of a fiscal rule into the Constitution. She even admitted that debt under such conditions was unsustainable and that it was not a country, not only in Europe, but in a world that would bear the burden of debt at such an interest rate or on such benefits. So the balance sheet doesn't follow the direction of balancing public finances. It distances us from that goal. The third goal that it set at that time is to protect and develop the public sector so that it will be a factor in the development of our society, the employer and the promoter of progress, not a virtual enemy that we can only take away from. If I'm a little ironic here, the government here is a success. The number of employees in the public sector is increasing, as opposed to the first steps that were taken last year, when the process of downsizing of public sector employees, especially in the public administration, started not so much in the public sector, but for the next step the public sector was envisaged, now the number of employees is increasing again. Despite the lower revenues provided for on the revenue side of the State budget, expenditure and transfers for this part shall be maintained at approximately the same level as in the investment work or investment area. If these expenses now meant that we would have better public service because of this, it might still be acceptable, but not in the situations we are in today; in a situation where we would have more income than we now have. But as a result, the quality of the public sector will not be any better than it is today, rather it will be even more inefficient and more wasteful. And the fourth goal she set at the time – the confidence of people in our country's institutions. She said that "it depends heavily on how our justice system works. Because there are those in the court's legal state who say what is right and what is right, it is my political priority to improve the efficiency of justice." The end of her quote. Even in this area, if we use a little irony, we can say that the government was successful. The courts have begun to condemn, even if there is no evidence, individuals or individuals have been detained, even if there are no grounds for detention, and will therefore claim from the State and will also be entitled to compensation for unlawful detention for the same period for which, on the basis of a second legal judgment, they should have been in prison for at least two months. The people's trust in these institutions and, as a result, the country is still at a lower point than it has been so far. In these few months, however, interestingly, the government of Alenka Bratušek accepted something that she had been sworn to all the time as a representative of the political group of Positive Slovenia in the opposition and against which she swore a few months before or a few weeks before she took those measures, which she had previously opposed. Thus, with its support, it was enshrined in the Constitution as a fiscal rule, the correct balance of public finances, so it supported a project of a bad bank that somehow stood in a place which it had opposed all the time, so it came to the National Assembly with a list of sales of 15 state-owned companies, significantly worse than it had planned before, but nevertheless some measures which it had previously strongly opposed, supported and also some legislation that was on the way or even already in the National Assembly. Of course, it has also implemented some new measures with a view to achieving these objectives on which it has been discussed, and obviously they will not be achieved, where, above all, there is a need to point out substantially higher taxes, both VAT and all other duties. With July 15, the compensation for the use of roads is renewed, even though it was increased by 1 last year. 12. and precisely in order to ensure a long-term stable source of funding, this infrastructure – there is no need to increase further because this money will not be fully spent this year. There will be a substantial increase in real estate tax, instead of the previous 190 million euros, there will obviously be around EUR 500 million at the expense of the rural and rural population, farmers, craftsmen, smaller entrepreneurs, even municipalities, if you would like. A high school will pay EUR 15,000 a year for this tax. Now, in most municipalities, he pays no compensation for the use of building land. On the other hand, the rich will be even richer. One large shopping centre is now paying 150 000 euros of this compensation, after which it will pay 3 to 5 times less; from 25 to 50 000 euros. In short, the poverty of the producer and the rural population – a kind of new nationalization of this layer, which has created what it has with its own work and denial, and the wealth of various Balkan traders, mercrators and others. Three objectives are to be pursued in the balance sheet: consolidation of public finances, rehabilitation of banks, better governance of state assets. Much has already been said about the consolidation of public finances. Let me just give you another comparison. At the end of the first Janša government's term of office, at the end of 2008, the government's debt was around €8 billion. We paid EUR 326 million for interest in 2008. This year, we are approaching EUR 800 million in interest payments -- almost three times that in five years -- to almost EUR 800 million, with the debt of the state budget likely to exceed EUR 20 billion at the end of the year. Over the five years from the 8 billion debt of the state budget to over EUR 20 billion, with an additional billion this year from the 2013 budget to EUR 3 billion. Such figures and trends make it impossible to talk about the consolidation of public finances. The measures are going in the wrong direction. Of course, on the other hand, expenditure, as I said, remains at the same level. Regarding the rehabilitation of banks, unfortunately, the time spent to oppose last year by the Prime Minister and her political group and the Social Democrats is the precious time that has been lost and will never be restored. Everything that will happen with regard to the rehabilitation of banks during this period of this year and beyond is very important and needs to be done because otherwise the banks will never function normally and service the economies and populations, but the price that will have to be paid for this rehabilitation will be significantly higher. This means that there will also be a burden on all taxpayers and in some way the state budget. With regard to the objective of better asset management, I must say that, according to the data in this balance sheet, I do not see this objective; I do not see it either in shares of state-owned enterprises that are to be obtained through dividends in the state budget, nor in sales, nor in better governance, in any way. I see it in just one area, and it doesn't mean any better, but it means more political action in managing the state property that talks about political staffing. Even the own personnel you've set aside for you. Today we read in the media that the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, Mr Otmar Zorn, who you set up, should resign because he disagrees with the human resources policy you are implementing in the New Ljubljana Bank and in the Insurance Office of Triglav. So, even your own personnel do not agree with the policy you are leading in this area. About pensions, by the way. If this management were appropriate, 10% of the Slovenian state-owned holding company, these purchases, would be earmarked for the pension fund and this margin, which was discussed, would be realised through this mechanism, assuming the realization of a billion to one-and-a-half sales of assets. The rebalancing cannot in any way contribute to the guidelines set by the government of Alenka Bratušek, and therefore is a distance from these objectives, and it is in the interest of this government not to accept this because it will further distance it from what it has set itself as a priority of action. We could say that the government of Alenka Bratušek in the financial field, in the budgetary area, as regards the rehabilitation of public finances, continues the inadequate policy of the Pahor government. As a result of this policy, we will be forced to take austerity measures in the coming years and the highest price will be paid by the young generation. Today, our country is in a much worse situation because, in just three years, between 2008 and 2011, the debt of the state budget has more than doubled, from 8 billion to 16.9 billion euros, and this trend continues today, while maintaining a very high level of expenditure which reduces the possibility of infrastructure investment and, on the other hand, increases the public financial deficit. In this way, somehow, not because of these indicators, but also because of the revolutionary rhetoric that we have witnessed more and more recently, we are somehow putting ourselves in one of the countries that are becoming some kind of robage of the euro area: uninterested in foreign investment, uninterested in investment, uninterested in any business. At the end of the year, we will be significantly more indebted to this rebalancing than we were at the beginning of the year, for interest we will pay some €159 million more than a year ago, the public sector will not be any more quality, no more quality, no more operational at the end of the year, and we will not spend any less on it than we did a year before. The poorest will be even poorer because they will have to pay significantly more, the richer they will have to pay even more. Young people will have no more job opportunities than they have today or a year before. However, the modest 9 million from the new European Youth Employment Mechanism cannot create 5,000 new jobs, since this does not mean EUR 2 000 per job. On the other hand, 250 million euros remain untapped from this financial perspective. It was said that they should say something, how, in what way — by the Prime Minister. I doubt the Prime Minister will listen to opposition Members if we give her very good advice. It would be sufficient to read the statements made by its own party political colleagues, which were made in the National Assembly a year ago, on 10 May, when the 2012 budget rebalancing was under consideration. This is an expert sitting now – one is Minister of Government Alenka Bratušek, the other is Secretary of State in her cabinet. The Secretary of State, Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič, said at the time: "In Positive Slovenia, we have prepared a proposal with which the country could practically obtain about 200 million euros through painless measures on the income and expenditure side at the same time." Great! Only this measure – I wonder why this prime minister did not pull 200 million euros out of the drawer! Do you know what that is? This means not only significantly better than was planned by the government of Janez Janša, but it means an additional EUR 400 million in deficits, so that it would not be a billion, but only EUR 700 million. Great! This is one measure that should only be pulled out of the sleeve, not from the sleeve, but from the magnetogram. And it's coming from her own secretary of state. The second proposal, or second thought, was by the current economic minister, Mr Stepišnik, who at the time spoke of the problem on the expenditure side, because Virant's salary reform in 2008 caused this disaster in Slovenia, at the time it was about EUR 3.2 billion for the country, and today it amounts to EUR 4.4 billion for wages. Here. So the public sector is too rich in terms of what we create and should do something about it. Those are his words a year ago. Now it would be right to apply them because he is a minister, or to be applied by his political party colleague, who is the Prime Minister. In this same debate, he said that what we create should be increased to about 40 billion in GDP — yes. If we increase it to 40 billion this year, we've solved all the problems, all of them. All he has to do is do what he said a year ago. He also talked about taxes, and here he said that we can't just look at the income side to take something off the taxes. With taxes we will not be able to take anything else, Mr Stepišnik said a year ago. Now he's sitting in the government that confirmed you. It is true that it disagrees with them, but it is part of the government that supports this direction. So, what am I trying to say? This idea of this rebalancing is to a large extent a performance for the public. In the absence of real measures and the direction of the government of Alenka Bratušek, which would lead us to the road map – on the one hand, the stabilisation of public finances and, on the other hand, the reversal of measures to strengthen economic growth and not fall and everything else that is needed – have also begun to take action. I suggest that the government of Alenka Bratušek comes with as few such performances as possible to the National Assembly, and it is better to start working on concrete measures, even if it listens to its own then opposition members who are now sitting in its government. Of course, this rebalancing cannot be supported because it is contrary to what this government is supposed to accomplish through its own words.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Blackwich. The representative of the Government of Mags also took the floor. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much. It is indeed a matter of measure for the public, and two are required for the performance, but in particular it is necessary to provide accurate information and highlight certain matters. The decline in economic growth in the first trimester of this year is in no way imputable to the economic policy of this government, and we can hope that if they take measures that are prepared to calm down or to reduce it. When we talk about the balance of public finances and when we talk about the deficit, the budget deficit of €1 billion, and now we are increasing it by a billion and a half, it is easy to say that it is possible to plan a billion euros in deficits if you forget or deliberately miss spending of 100 million on interest, 150 million on pensions, if you reduce public sector wage expenditure by about 115 million, but do nothing to achieve this additional reduction, or if you reduce public service transfers by 10 to 15%, you do nothing to achieve this reduction. It is therefore simple to balance public finances and thus to reduce the deficit unrealistically, and such a move must be stopped. This rebalancing represents a real confrontation with a picture that we have been able to focus on since 21 March. In particular, the question was raised as to how we planned income from value added tax and rate increases this year. I've already said it in the beginning, and I'm going to say it again because I obviously didn't hear it. The budget's revenue component is EUR 100 million, as announced in the implementation of the law on the implementation of the budget, which has increased the VAT rate, but in fact, the budget as a change in the balance sheet provides for an increase of only EUR 12 million and EUR 600 000 in the value added tax line simply for two reasons. In the budget adopted, 70 million resources are planned to be eliminated in order to eliminate certain categories of goods and services for which a lower rate is calculated, and when the budget is adopted, it was envisaged that a general value added tax rate would be introduced for these categories of goods and services. In addition, account must be taken of the decline in consumption, which is why the budget under Income from Value Added Tax has been further planned too optimistically or too highly. I am sure that we will be able to speak more eloquently and justifiably about the evidentiary or modality of the property tax when the bill is prepared and submitted to the National Assembly for assessment and confirmation. As regards the debt in May 2013, it must be said that the premiums or interest rates at which the debt was incurred were lower than the interest rates of the October debt, also on the US market. As far as the effects of asset management are concerned, I must say that I do not even understand the comments. On the dividend policy side, the Government does not change what was planned in the adopted budget. We anticipate, as in the adopted budget, that we will realise from this title some 86 million euros in revenue. However, as regards sales, it is clear that the sale of state property, especially more valuable state assets, is not a process that can be carried out in a very short time, and therefore the revenues from this title in this year's budget rebalancing cannot be planned or thus the planning would be unrealistic and distorted by the procedures actually carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ms Romana Tomc continues the debate now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleague Vice-President, Secretary of State, few colleagues and colleagues! With the opinion of my colleague, I agree and challenge what the Secretary of State has said - this is a performance for the public, Madam Secretary of State, and it is not always necessary for two to perform in this play, one can also perform. I have the feeling that we are performing in this public exhibition by opposition Members, who are trying to show what is not as it should be in this budget, and that the highest representatives of the government do not participate in this play. The Secretary of State has been here with us all day, although she has now performed a few minutes, and before that she has given us a more extensive explanation, which together was longer than the whole performance and presentation of both, the President of the Government and the Finance Minister, who gave us only a few minutes for this very important document and then left. I hope that I will not be charged again if I find that you are sitting with us, and neither of them is a member of the Committee on Finance. We don't have a finance minister with us, we don't even expect a government president. How serious this government takes the adoption of this balance is the facts itself. I also wonder whether the Government itself may not know at this point or is aware of this fact, that today is just a small step on the road to autumn, when we will once again sit on the same topic in Parliament and discuss new budget corrections. All these events or what is going on in this debate, I think it shows its own, shows the government's attitude towards people, not least to colleagues. I must say that I object to this way of doing things, and I think that people will be able to assess how serious the approach to solving the crisis is, how serious the approach to reducing the public financial deficit is. The Secretary of State mentioned earlier that this balance is an indicator or a face-to-face with the real situation. But unfortunately, I also have to challenge this, Madam Secretary of State, because if that were the case alone, then there should be no need to submit, at the same time as a rebalancing, substantive laws that significantly reduce transfers to individuals and households. I'm going to remind you of the obstetrics you're lowering, and if legislation were to remain the way it is now, we wouldn't be reducing these obstetrics, but we would be keeping them the way they are. You are proposing a special law that will be passed in these days — which you will adopt — that will lay the groundwork for you to do so. I also agree with those colleagues who say that the task of the rebalancing is a little different from the task of the budget and the importance of the budget and that it is some coordination of the actual state of revenue, expenditure. However, it is not only this; it is also an indicator of the government's operation, an indicator of the direction in which the Government goes with its actions, whose items it reduces, which it leaves the same and which it raises. The government is devoting itself to a more friendly environment for entrepreneurship, to incentives for youth employment, to a more favourable family policy, to a more generous social policy, but the figures in this budget show exactly the opposite. Let us go, I think the numbers will say the most to the general part of the budget and to some key items that are mentioned in general and I will comment on them a little bit. If we stop at income first. The maximum reduction in revenue is foreseen by the Government under the corporate income tax item, and this reduction is always accompanied by an explanation by government representatives of a lower tax rate, a reduction in corporate income taxes in previous years. That's not true. A lower corporate income tax has brought about a real situation, brought about by the fact that last year our companies acted extremely poorly, that companies operating in 2012 significantly worsened their performance than in 2011, according to Apes in his report. After covering all the expenditure and profit tax, they showed net net profit, but only at the level of one third of the year before. This weakened economy, particularly a weakened small economy, below, which is not yet the result of this budget, you foresee new and new tax burdens. This means that the next year this number will be even smaller and that you will be able to repair it again. The next item I want to touch is the funds received from the European Union. I think most of my colleagues have already mentioned a 257-million reduction, a projected reduction in funds coming from this address. You justify this by not having enough projects to be prepared, but of course this is not the case. Projects, projects have been prepared, projects are on the table, and we are complicated, as has been the case for many years, and we can admit that there was a government before, but very clumsy and awkward in the use of European funds. He's getting involved in red tape. This is also the result of a report prepared by the Government or its authorities every year or at any time in connection with the drawing-up of European funds. We all know that by the end of 2012, Slovenia had spent €4.2 billion to support them for these purposes, especially for investments, and look, by the end of 2012, let's say we call it the period of the Janša government, it was confirmed by 5.26 billion instruments and 3.75 billion signed contracts by the end of the year – I apologize, by the end of 2012 3.51 billion signed contracts. Then in the next six months, let's say the period of the government of Alenka Bratušek, an increase of only 3.75 billion signed contracts. And in the last year of drawing! This should be an enormous increase, an increase here should be closer to this number of all validated instruments, but not. There's no reason for unprepared projects! The reason is the complications of bureaucracy. If we go a little further away now and touch on another important item that we do not know today who is more to blame, who is less to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is to blame, who is not only staying at the same level, but they are even increasing. The Secretary of State has rightly pointed out that this item also covers payments of some outstanding obligations arising from certain court decisions and we can agree with it that this is true. At the same time, it points out that Minister Virant's very large achievement, which is expected to be EUR 100 million, is about EUR 100 million off-duty, because if he did not do so, the expenditure would be even higher. See, this is a deceiving, because in this same package, when Dr. Virant made this deal with the unions, he also agreed that this amount, for which public servants will now be deprived of the wage item, would be redistributed to pay on another channel, this is through material costs. This is the case and, of course, there is also an agreement and a message, which the unions have joyfully communicated to their members. However, despite the fact that this item is going to be very cautious, the fact remains that the number of civil servants has increased since the turn of this government in April, that we are all reminded that you, when you were in opposition, have warned us that this will not go as far as the public sector has gone. If you don't want us to close our eyes like that before, you'll have to keep cutting into this area. What kind of cuts will we see in the next, if not before, perhaps a visit by the Prime Minister of Brussels or one of the ministers when they tell us what these numbers must be, as they have told us so far. The next item, which I would like to touch and is quite large, is €48 million, you will probably agree with me that this is not so little money, especially with all these big words, how much attention this government devotes to the field of youth, education. These 48 million, respected colleagues and colleagues, have come to the budget through a series of legislative changes where those funds, which have been in existence all the time on another account, if we can say so, are going to the budget fund. These are not new funds, they are not any additional funds to fill the budget. These are just the funds we transferred from one drawer to another. And you now want to say that because of this transfer you are spending 48 million euros on scholarships. It's a simple deception. I'll tell you why. Look, there wasn't this item in the old budget - reserves. If I may also mention this here, we need to look for funding for scholarships across the budget: a little on the grant line, a little on the incentive line for young people, even a little on the reserve item. Tell me how you can argue that this budget is transparent. If we cannot get some correct data here, how much resources will this country spend on young people's education at all, then I believe we have the same embarrassment on other items. Let us now go back to the specific figures, because these specific numbers were not explained by the Minister with her team on the committee that dealt with this budget. I hope you have the answers today. According to the old or now existing budget, €92 million has been allocated to scholarships. There really wasn't a reserve item, but that 48 million, as I said before, was in another drawer. They existed and were intended for scholarships. So the country together has spent 140 million on scholarships. Let's see how it goes. The new €48 million goes into the budget and then the state or government reduces the grant to only €35 million. So there's a total of €83 million. You will calculate for yourself the difference between €83 million, which will be allocated for the new grant, and € 140 million, which has been earmarked so far. With all the big words about how we promote youth education and make the environment a good place for young people! And another item really disturbed me and also the comments that my colleagues had on this item. This is the so-called B balance sheet, the item Increase capital shares in public companies and companies owned by the State or municipalities. It increases by round or more than €207 million. At the same time, as this government says its priority is to withdraw the state from business, it devotes more resources to buy or invest in business shares and will become not smaller but larger owners. Of course, we are running into a situation here when we ask ourselves why the Government, with its actions that must be as horizontal as possible, means that they will be friendly to all entrepreneurs, that they will mean improving the environment for the whole economy – why does the Government not do so? Why it works in a way that, according to its opinion, it will be able to allocate funds that, in many cases, have already proved to be lost forever and will be covered by taxpayers. In short, the issues related to this budget rebalancing are very large. The figures that are in the budget and in the balance of the budget say something completely different, as colleagues say, as the Government says. These are not measures to improve the business environment, these are not measures that will enable economic growth. These are not measures that would not improve our country, but at least preserve the social level that we know today. No, these are measures to reduce economic growth, and these are measures to reduce social security. I would like to mention this item at the end, because I think it is very important for people. Indeed, the huge words spoken here in this room regarding schoolchildren, regarding the diet of children, regarding the growing poverty that is knocking on our door, will reduce the line on family benefits and parental benefits in this rebalancing. You're going to lower the obstetrics. You will reduce maternity rates by almost 20 million euros. You will reduce social security transfers by almost €15 million. Does this mean that the social environment in Slovenia has suddenly improved? What, then, would be the reason for this reduction? And as I mentioned earlier, for 40 million euros or more, you're going to cut your scholarships. These figures are very plausible and speak something quite different than what we hear from the parliamentary benches, what we have heard from the mouth of the President of the Government, how many words she has given us at all, because she has mainly talked about what the previous government has not done well and very little about what her government will do to make the economic and social environment better in Slovenia. Last but not least, as we have repeatedly pointed out, we can speak our own language here, and no one listens to us, no one looks at those words enough, but only an article or a meeting in Brussels, and things change. A day or two ago, the European Commission also sent a very clear message; not only in our opinion, in my view, this balance is not good, even in their view this rebalancing has not received a green light. You're gonna have to do a lot more than what you're doing right now. As I say, I'm afraid, I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid we'll see each other again in the fall when we have a similar discussion about the new balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I believe that everyone would like the budget or the balance of the budget to contain so much financial resources that we can provide all the programmes that we all want together. Above all, it is important to stress that this is not a reduction in funds as has now been said. In fact, at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, when we look at the balance sheet, we see the sum of sumarum in terms of the budget of EUR 300,000, which is less money for activity within the Ministry. So 300 thousand euros, not millions of amounts, as has been heard now, especially on items as has been heard now. So I would be very happy if we were to engage in a constructive debate, but not to intimidate and mislead people, so that social security will somehow be reduced at some point in order to reduce funding for scholarships or anything like that. First, if I go to, say, the Labour Market and Employment Directorate. We know in what times we are living, we know that the pressure on our ministry is extremely high, we know that unemployment in 2012, so in the time of the previous government, has increased record, record unemployment has increased, especially among young people. To this end, we have then focused on this short period of time, since we are now in the government, with all the energy and direction to do everything we need to do, especially with concrete measures, to cut this off and to stop this trend. When we look at the items, we raise the expected funds for the labour market in particular, i.e. from €519 million to €545 million. If we first look at the cash benefits for the unemployed, this will increase by €36 million, because it is such a situation in society and we can look at it; it is said that we have been warned, we know what is going on with the numbers, and we will respond to it in particular with the aim of not leaving people behind. Second, for active employment policy programmes. If we look at the integral part, and essentially the part that was planned, we will also raise the funds for active employment policy by 0.6% and 0.6 million euros. Why are these programs important? Here, unlike some, we know that there have been projects in the previous mandate, such as the First Challenge, good projects and that we would like to, d such projects to be as many projects as possible because they would involve as many young people in the labour market, and this is ultimately a huge goal for us all. As a key element in this context of active employment policy, however, we want to channel resources that are not very large into projects and measures that will be more effective in the long term and that will involve as many young people as possible in the long term labour market. Not so that we may distribute the funds, but then there will be no effect, but in such a way that we will have some of it and that young people will be employed. A few things happen in this direction, one of those measures, we've heard before, is, say, a self-employment measure. Subsidies are no longer granted just that way, but young people are provided with an external consultant, they are provided with a workshop where they are familiar with the business environment, they know how it can be easier to go into entrepreneurship, they check the idea together with the consultant, and then they step into self-employment, they take the subsidy. The percentages of those who have kept their jobs for more than four years are increasing, now over 60%, which means that it is a good measure and that we can work in this way and we want to support it in the future. As far as future matters are concerned, I am extremely pleased, although perhaps this is not a point where they could be overjoyed, but we have managed to convince by the arguments in the European Union that Slovenia also needs certain means of employment for young people. Given the situation, it would be better to avoid young people being sufficiently involved in the labour market, but they are not, and we need help and cooperation from all policies, because this is the only way to achieve the goal we want. As part of this initiative, Slovenia will be entitled to work on the resources it will be able to devote to the employment of young people in the eastern region. Within the ministry we actively launched the Youth Guarantee programme, we will start concrete programmes in autumn and we want to employ as many young people as possible. The U.S.R. also brings relief to employers, and we want to take a step further with the intervention laws that have already been dealt with on the Committee and will come to the National Assembly. We want to find a way to make it easier for employers to employ young people, to exempt them from contributions and thus make young people more employable, especially when we are talking about employment for an indefinite period of time. We have finally adopted a strategy within social entrepreneurship, and there will also be some opportunities here, so that we will direct all energy towards hiring as many young people as possible. These results need to be known very quickly and it is up to us to do as much as possible. But if we just insist on who did something and who didn't do something and look at last year's results, then we would see that there were no results or that they weren't what they all wanted. I hope that this is where we will understand the situation we are in, and that we will do our utmost to overcome it — as far as we are concerned. Then I would like to point out that it is not true that scholarship funds are being reduced. This is also clear from the budget, and the scholarship will not be less, except in the case of Zois's scholarships, whose law you have also harmonised in the previous government, because we all wanted Zois' system to go in the direction we now have and we want to upgrade it – in this segment there will be a little less scholarships. Otherwise, all of us will work together because we have a new law on scholarships to try to provide as many young people as possible with a scholarship. So if we look at the concrete item; indeed, the amount of the planned funds is only EUR 48 million and the budget for 2013 was indeed 130 million and the realisation was completely different. Implementation has agreed to 96 million and then, if we look at the budget's balance sheet, the item is EUR 78 million. So there is a little bit less funding, something at the expense of the new law on scholarships, but we expect this 11, 12 million, which is a difference from realisation. From what is planned in the budget, it will come, at least according to our estimates, that the realisation of revenues by the end of the year will increase from this 48 million to 60 million euros. This is, in fact, about 12 million more than the proposal for a rebalancing, which means that the scope of this policy will not be reduced in terms of the budget adopted and again a positive issue, irrespective of the fact that we are being reduced in the balance, we anticipate that these grants will be sufficient and that we will be able to allocate them as much as we need. There has also been much talk about family policy to reduce parental benefits, which, of course, is true, but not to do so on purpose or to put families in a worse position. The foundations of these funds are falling slightly and, above all, the number of births has also begun to decline significantly, and this is a signal for all of us. If we look at data only, in 2011, there were 22 000 500 beneficiaries, in 2012 21 000 74 beneficiaries, that is to say in one year 6 % of the decline in fertility. Here you can see this item and the realization. This is about lowering funds, not about reducing funds for families or anything. Then it must also be said, dear colleagues and colleagues, that, according to the ZUJF, which was also accepted by the previous government and, even after the new intervention law, a savings of €1.5 million is expected. Here's the difference. All along with adopted laws, the state of birth and what is happening to us in society, we come to these items. No one deliberately reduces the financial resources for parental compensation in the balance sheet, and this needs to be made clear. As far as the child supplement is concerned, the effect of the ZUJF is evident, while taking into account the assets of the previous year or even the previous year, which we will also change into new social legislation, does not make it worse for the family. As a result of all of this, social legislation and also ZUJF, the number of beneficiaries per year is falling. Real state – we know what it is. We have received an analysis of the Institute, we know what needs to be done in these changes in order to help families — at least those who really need it. I think it's unjustifiable to say that we either destroy the social state or take away those who need it. Inside what we have, we are primarily at the Ministry of Labour – even as far as drawing is concerned, you know that the Ministry is one of the most successful and is trying to obtain funding from wherever it comes from. It makes sense, however, that within what we have, we allocate as effectively as possible and that all those who really need help will not suffer great consequences from this rebalancing. We will prove our work over time and in view of how the balance will essentially capture, what we will do in the future, so you will evaluate both citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mrs. Romana Tomc has a replica of the information he provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u96	Yes, of course it wouldn't have been true that my statements were accidentally wrong because they weren't. The fact is that these 48 million, which you are now trying to present as new revenues for the purpose of scholarships, already exist somewhere else today, but now you've taken them there and moved them somewhere else. That's what they say. There's no more money, but there's less. According to the figures from the general budget, €57 million is less than the current budget for scholarships. Now I don't know how else to explain this mathematics, but the facts that come out of the numbers are completely clear. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know how certain things can happen to you unintentionally and some numbers are recorded in your budget unintentionally, because they have been written down as they are, and they are what they are. Regardless of how you want to show that you keep funds for social, youth employment and all other purposes, the fact is: minus 20 million on family benefits, minus 15 million on social security transfers. However, I believe that on some items you have also raised funds, of course perfectly logically, on an active employment policy, there are more unemployed. I would like the economy to be the one that will make unemployment and the need for social transfers less for compensation, not for the incentives of the country. I also believe that you will spend a very large amount of money to promote social entrepreneurship, and the question is whether this is what this money will be spent on, and we all agree. But, as it is said, this is the policy of this government, and the numbers speak. And the figures say that the funding for the scholarships will be less than €50 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you. Additional explanations will be provided by State Secretary Levanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. It seems important to me to further explain that something that has been said will not now turn out to be the truth because it is not. Minus 20 million and minus 15 million, as you said, is a real state because the 2013 budget was unrealistically planned. These are the real estimates of the money we will need to ensure social security for the people who need it. That's clear. We're not lowering these funds, we're not endangering social security, and that's just something you have to read inside the balance sheet. There's not gonna be 50 million less for scholarships. This moment is the difference of 11 million, but we know that from the concession fees this number will grow from 48 million to 60 million, so that together we will have sufficient funding for the scholarships to be granted this year. The fact is only one thing, I would really like all of us to understand together that all of these funds, as you said, which are supposed to be reduced for different social benefits, do not decrease and that sometimes it is good to plan the budget and that reality can be completely different. Through our calculations, we know what is necessary for all those who need some social security to have it. This is clearly written through the various policies of the Ministry of Labour, through figures that are clear, and now speak in the National Assembly to reduce the millions of dollars – it is not true because they were wrongly planned and did not reflect the reality. That is a fact, and this must be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you. The next one to discuss is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I will oppose the rebalancing because it is not what we would like, because it does not suggest stabilisation of public finances, expenditure is significantly more than revenue. In view of the proposed budget for half a billion, you are increasing public debt. We have seen such a policy in the time of the Pahor government, when we have only increased our debts, rather than doing something on the other hand. Several times today, it has been said that the budget is unrealistic. At the time it was planned and when revenue and expenditure were foreseen, it was made and placed on those assumptions prepared by Umar and other institutions that we have in this country to plan things or to do analyses and pay for them. So a few months later, to find out what was wrong at the time and what we didn't know, I could say that after the battle, every general was. Of course, six months from now, we're all smart enough to get back what needs to be done. This is what your fellow Member, Matevž Frangež, said that this balance is not ready on realistic assumptions, that we will witness another rebalancing this year, or that the implementation of the budget at some point will simply stop and that we do not contribute much to the direction of our economic policy with this rebalancing. We don't need to talk to you like that, but you can see for yourself. It is also clear to us that we ourselves have had the opportunity and the opportunity to do something and why we have not done so. If I can just remind you of a few things last year. The deficit decreased by 2.4 % compared to 2011. Most of this was at the expense of expenditure; for the first time, we have also reduced funds more fundamentally for public sector employees, which until then seemed virtually impossible. Seemed pretty impossible last year. A reduction in the number of employees has also begun, unlike what is happening today. Also in the social field, some of the expenditure has been reduced, something other than the ZUJF, at the expense of the amended social legislation that we supported to the extent that a single entry point is in place, some of the solutions we did not agree with, but in fact this reform has brought about changes. Current expenditure was thus reduced by 300 million. Even this year, the ZUJF still works, which you spit so much last year, and we've listened to it, to abolish the social state, to make new poor people, to be cruel and ruthless and so on. Spilled from all sides, of course, this year you put it into a pact of stability or balance of public finances or a pact of stability, where you heard a lot of bad and bitter words last year, and this year you've also been awarded the ZUJF, which we said last year, even though we've already told you that it wasn't easy for us. It had to be taken in all areas and it was never easy, but we were aware that there was no other way. Even people understood that it was necessary to tighten the belt and wait for a while to endure for better times. Of course, we would continue to do so, and we would continue to do so if there had not been a change of government, and here, where we are, we are also due to this political crisis, political instability. You know for yourself that when a new team is established, it takes a long time to empty. What are you doing? You are working on a new job, there were 200 new civil servants in April, so an increase of 4 million in the budget's salary, despite your commitment to work differently. In the agreement on the cooperation of Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, the Civil Service List and DeSUS, you have written down that you will introduce incentives for employers' contributions to new jobs in order to introduce incentives for employers' contributions to first employment, establish a scheme of assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises – none of this is happening except that you have again and further burdened them with higher VAT. However, you also wrote down some important things about the consolidation of public finances. These were written: a reduction in the budget deficit – which you do not reduce but increase by half a billion with a balance – with a focus on rationalising public spending. You listed a reduction in the mass for wages, rationalisation, in the extreme case of VAT increases. You wrote this three months ago, but we did, and we've already had an increase in the last 10 days. Then you wrote that you will draw heavily on European funds. On this item, you're also reducing funds, and I don't know how you're going to draw them more intensely if you give them up. It has also been said that we cannot interfere with justice or that some of the things that someone has acquired are apparently eternal, people view it as unfair, and many privileged pensions are viewed as unfair, and they also estimate that the country is not legal and fair and so on. I have already mentioned the case that in Italy, at the time of saving on disability committees, all disabled persons were brought back, and one-third of them were disabled, because someone in good time also got the status right on their eyes, not because they would actually be disabled. You say you're interfering with some of the rights mentioned above were already maternity. You said that for mid-term births, last time we had a big debate on the board, while you didn't interfere with average pensions. The pension of between 3,000 and 1,000 euros has 7 000 189 people. The pension of a thousand five hundred to seven hundred has 4 thousand 838 people and the pension of over a thousand seven hundred euros has 6 thousand 233 people. It's just those higher ones. From a thousand thousand to a thousand, there's 15,000 of them, and so on. Now we're going to take away hundreds of women who, in your opinion, are getting an average high maternity allowance, regardless of whether they have loans on their salary and the like and will have problems with their maternity leave. In the case of pensions, you have absolutely no problem with the fact that a few people have an average pension. If you're interfering, and if you want to save and convince us that you're interfering with what's above average, then you probably have to do something here too. It has been said that we have intervened against those who already cannot secure personal existences that have problems with raising VAT to all raise your rates. [[...]] Those who are already going to Karitas and to the Red Cross for funds to be able to pay the bills are likely to come now with even larger bills and even higher funds. Not to say what VAT raises will bring in other areas; I have already said only 17 million additional money for the Health Care Institute and so on. In all areas, we will practically place only one pocket in another and eventually find out the same thing as Mr Pahor said he had misdiagnosed, so you have taken the wrong measures, treated the matter wrongly and doubled the public debt in just three years. I was wondering if someone would say in a year that we really didn't have 10. 7. when we were taking the rebalancing, right; you were right. Or when we were opposed to raising VAT, whether we were right or not. In short, the fact is that for half a billion euros, the deficit increases according to what was envisaged because you did not want to do or continue the work that started last year – reducing public servants and reducing wages. Some were very good and retired after the ZUJF last year to meet the conditions and so on. In other areas this has not happened, and now you have given them this leave so that they will not have to do it this year. In the SDS, we don't think raising taxes is the right way. Slovenia had an average economic growth and was successful when we reduced taxes, when we enabled business development, and these are the real steps. But you're doing the opposite, with new taxes you're additionally burdening the economy and individuals, and in a year's time when we're going to talk about it, I hope, or I'm afraid we're going to hear again that a misdiagnosis has been made, that we've been treated with the wrong drugs, and that's why we're even deeper than we are today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc has also been announced for the debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much, very good-bye. The adoption of the budget as well as the rebalancing is always a political show. As mayor, I accepted eight such budgets and it was always the same: the opposition – the opposite, the position – for and then it was voted. But the beatings were less than here in the National Assembly when we still have five hours of general debate and I don't know where this is going. I'm going to allow myself to discuss or diagnose this country a little bit. Nor is dissecting the words of the President of the Government and Ministers etc., leading nowhere, what someone said two years ago, what in another situation like today and similar You were Mr. Minister and should not allow yourself to fall into such a low way of debate that it is a shame to speak, you know! [[...]] [[...]] He rightly said to his colleague Bogovic: dialogue, the search for common plans for a way out of the crisis, let us leave history – I will not tell you anything because it makes no sense, because this country will have nothing to do with it – and see how to solve the situation in the one we are in. Who's to blame, I don't give a shit. And what Borut Pahor said, I don't care. I want to know where the vision is, how it comes out of the crisis, how to survive and improve the situation as it is. Look, we're in a situation where we need a lot of debt service. Today it was said, what, 140 million, etc. I'm not saying anything about what's yet to happen in the years to come when we have to pay back and pay the blame to the erased, but now it doesn't matter who's guilty, but it's also gonna cost us terribly, and these skeletons just fall out of the closet, no matter who's in the government before and who's now. It is very modern to stress that the public sector must reduce wages, reduce the number of employees, etc. This is what Europe is forcing us to do. Europe has also forced Greece, Spain and any other country to do so. Slovenia is not Greece. We don't have teachers who sit at home and get paid and don't even go to work like it did in Greece. Such things must be said to this Europe that we are not comparable. We can have 40 kids in class, why not? Let's fix the regulations, 40 to the class, and the savings are huge. But that's the same thing as saying it, but we're all going to be driving around with trumps and figs again, and I don't know what. There are reserves, there are reserves everywhere, but there is no one who has no idea that when the English teacher retires, he will be replaced by a professor of sports education and will teach a little more mathematics and physics and I don't know what. It's not that simple. Municipal administrations, administrative units, etc. And let's reduce the need for state bureaucracy, because it's true that a citizen has to come for every piece of paper, he has to report somewhere, something has to apply, etc. If possible, let us reduce this and then we can also reduce the number of workers and workers. In health care, people will die a little early because we don't have, we can't hire teams of doctors to raise that standard. But we're getting older, we've been living for a long time, and the diseases that used to be logical -- I'm going to say, the patient died and goodbye -- we're healing this today and much worse. And that's right! But it costs, and let's say in Europe, that we want to have this social part the same as we have or every year a little better. In justice, however, we can reduce the number of judges for a simple reason because look who is going to jail. Every day, one important person goes to prison. A lot of people have a headache. I'm reading about the house investigation today. I don't know what rich Celjan, etc. And – justice is too much, the police are too high, because they've reached into what people demand to go to prison, and the honorable citizens are senior managers, etc., who were such barons that you shouldn't look at them – they go to jail today; and so is that, but that's why it's a start to justice. Cops are public servants. What do we say we don't need them, or shall we say, buy yourself a uniform to be decent on the street? I'm really talking about what doesn't belong in the balance, but you've all talked about these things, you're all tense, on one side, on the other side. See what happens to workers who work in prisons, it's said in detention facilities. After all, those who will be imprisoned will devour the workers, literally because there is an abnormal difference in the number, they are personally threatened and so on. It's all the cost of the state, it can't be saved here. There's no saving here, and I think we need to be very careful. I say this so that even those who go to Europe can say how things are. Social Democrats have long said that property, property, should be taxed. But our view is that it is necessary to tax the rich. Not the barn where a woman has four pigs in it, or the roof over the tractor, we're not talking about it, but we're talking about if someone has a fortune back with denationalization that doesn't know what to do with, and a lot more, and they have to be taxed. We will work to ensure that this tax is also appropriate, but not as flat-rate as it is now set up, and we do not agree and will not support these matters. I'm still saying that confiscating property, not a prison sentence, is a blow to whoever committed the crime. We have two flies at one stroke: a little budgeting with such an action, and the penalty is that the next will no longer be able to afford such games. We're talking about starting with big investments. Let's say the 2nd track of Coper-Flower. Do we have any construction plans? Do we have a company to do this? Whether Strabag or Alpina Bau will do this, who went — I don't know. And we'll give them their profits, to strangers. We have destroyed our companies, we are not talking about these huge investments, which obviously we are not able to make together if we do not unite, fold this operationally, make a company that will again be capable of one part of the Primorje or one part of the SCT that we will really drive these investments ourselves. I hear HESS is exhausting. I don't know who's after us now, maybe it's to sell our hydropower plants or anything over the years. Man keeps falling on some rumors, which then prove to be true. This exhaustion is extremely dangerous, and we will talk about it again in time. I think there really is a lot of trouble in this country; I don't know who is bringing fire to all these things, especially to what it is, I think Pojbich was talking about when he mentions us parliamentarians that we are all corrupt. Who? Excuse me, who?Oh, my God! Not me. I mean, he said no, my friend said no. A lot of people say no, and I really don't believe any of these 90 people have been getting any corruption. But it broke down in the taverns and in public opinion that we are the biggest bastards in this country. I don't accept that! But who brings fire to such ideas and such assessments? If the directors themselves say that there is so much corruption in the country; then who is bribed by: the power plant or the director?Oh, my God! But if he knows there's so much corruption, let him say it. One name to say! The name of one doctor because now it is this family that doctors are corrupt – let’s say one name! I go to a doctor, I've never carried a bottle of wine or candy for a new year. Let's say who's taking the envelopes?Oh, my God! On each police car is an anonymous number and turn number, dear citizens and residents of Slovenia, and say: Pepi does not take me to the infirmary unless I give him 500 euros. Come on! We all have to contribute, and so do we. When I go to the hairdresser, I ask for the bill and I get it. Maybe because they know who I am, but we're making sure we're a state of law. It's up to all of us. I know that we will never be satisfied with the balance or the budget until we can upgrade our wishes with a million. This has always been the case in Slovenia. Slovenia is beautifully decorated. All small congregations have circular circles, flowers grow and so on. What's underneath these circles is a sewer there, it's a wideband – it doesn't matter! We don't know, we don't know, we don't know. What drinking water is like — Look at how many congregations there are, but they cannot bring together a good water supply! Let's stop making makeup on this country. Let us work on what is absolutely necessary, thereby encouraging investments, these are small investments that give bread to many small craftsmen, entrepreneurs and so on, and we will all be pleased. To say that we will hire young people – yes, where, what? Because if I hire him, he's got to do something that's gonna sell. If I can't sell it, there's no job and so on. I'm not teaching anyone about the economy because I'm not that expert. We're just going to accept this rebalancing. It was still so, the opposition did not accept the budget, nor did we accept yours, but you do not accept the balance, but the position will accept it, but we will be very careful that some of the things that are now in here because of the burning water, I would say, will change for the better; but here we also need the help of the opposition. I think, as Bogovich said and many others, that many are really offering hands and we will be able to help each other further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Brulc, if this idea, which I also support, are managed to legislate and bring it into legal order so that all this illegal property can also be taken away, I am sure that, in addition to my vote, there will be a sufficient majority. If that works, I think we'll get some money. See, the most frequently spoken words by the President of the Government, as well as by many coalition members, were in preparation and in the debate on this balance that the rebalancing is essentially a correction of the poor budget planning that was adopted last year at the time of the Janša government. I don't think that's the kind of talk that's justified. For we all know on what basis the budget for this year and also for 2014 was prepared last year, based on the parameters that were available in Slovenia or last year, and in particular on the forecast for this year or last year for the second year. To say now that this planning was then unrealistic, unobjective, is not the most correct. Because I'm sure if all those projections were to come true, the picture today would be completely different. But the current coalition and also the President of the Government with many ministers are not someone who came from the moon to Slovenia and had nothing to do with it. That's not true. All of these were key actors in creating the situation in Slovenia, which led to the failure of many of the issues that we had planned. I agree that the Government, as an institution, this new government, is not objectively responsible for accepting this balance, but that the people sitting in this government, including the President of the Government – are certainly one of the most responsible that the situation has deteriorated, not only in 2012 in 2013, but also in recent years. Today it has been heard that Mrs Bratušek is the largest expert on budget and finance. She was the most responsible in the preparation of the budget in previous governments! Yet, we have always faced great shortages and great problems! Now someone will tell us that before her work and her co-workers were successful and effective, and the budget that was adopted in the time of the Janša government is something catastrophic, something that needs to be rectified. I agree that changes have been made from a higher number of pensions, which is not due to what we call Visionary reforms, but to Svetlik's. The biggest surge of retirement was precisely the legislation that was prepared and also dealt with during Minister Svetlik's time, which led to a plaza of unnecessary pensions. Otherwise, I agree with everyone that the crisis or the situation in Slovenia is not simple, not pink. But this is not the result of the government of Janez Janša, because last year the situation was significantly worse, significantly worse, except in this respect, which is possible this year or now more difficult – the price of indebtedness. For all the credibility that Slovenia had, we have actually wasted and the cost of borrowing is higher. Otherwise, last year, with more drastic measures, more negotiations, more hard work, including more pressure from the opposition at the time, it was necessary to take extremely painful measures that produced results and would probably have given them even more in this year than if there had been no political downturn, no political crisis, not least of all, a shared secret cooperation, both with trade unions and various civil associations, which had political opposition or even conduction in the background. These are the things that have brought Slovenia where we are. This crisis, in which Slovenia is now, has essentially deepened since 2008, since the end of 2008. Despite the fact that some of you are aware that neither of the then ministerial team nor Prime Minister Janša's president in 2008 has admitted that there is a crisis in Slovenia. In the first half of 2008, let us be correct, no macroeconomic forecast, neither international nor in Slovenia, indicated some indicators to predict the crisis in Slovenia. Mrs. Purgatory, that's right! Just read it! It's true. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] They're not! In the first half of 2008, no serious objective macroeconomic forecasts were yet forecast in Slovenia. We had the lowest level of unemployment, big economic growth, a balanced budget, a high degree of competitiveness, of course, which was still rising. It is true, however, that by the end of 2008, a number of indicators had already begun to change in the direction that pointed out that there was a need to act. At that time was the time that the then government and much of the current coalition had missed. You didn't want to hear our warning, our proposal. How many laws, anti-crisis measures we proposed at that time, but of course you ignored them! However, every year Slovenia has been increasingly in debt, irrational spending of money, and in particular it has not taken those urgent measures, where it should not be saved, but rather reduce the consumption covered by the debt, and maintain the same level of rights in the area of social, health, education and so on. This is the wish of each of us, and we would also like to continue, but respectable, those who insist now that we must not agree to the European Union's objections, what we must or should not do: the reality is that we will be able to afford the standard as great as we will be able to create. For Europe does not tell us what we must have, Europe makes us conditional if we want their money, we will have to do this, this and what we are taught by a healthy farmer's mind. See, no farmer will survive for two years if he does what the state of Slovenia does. And pronouncing or even shimmering some direction from Brussels, or those who know what measures each country must take, is unfair. They just condition if we want their help, but if we don't get it or if we don't want it, I think it's going to be bankruptcy faster than we all think together. To speak now, let's say, with this rebalancing, that this is some kind of good solution within the framework of what's possible. I can only agree with this in this part that this balance that you will accept in the coalition will be better than likely the next rebalancing in the autumn. But those will be significantly worse especially for our people and for the country than they are, because they will really have to be cut where there was not enough courage now. And not on the revenue side, but on the spending side. You have already, I can say, made quite a few such moves, measures that will not, even on the basis of statements, forecast of recognised macroeconomics both in Slovenia and abroad, bring the income that we plan or want. But with this rebalancing that is now ahead of us, I miss that a parallel projection of some really objectively and realistically possible measures would be produced, including through changes in legislation that would indicate the direction of the solution or the light at the end of the tunnel. Unfortunately, the coalition and the government don't have that. There's something else I'd like to point out. The former Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, has repeatedly called and invited the opposition to cooperate at that time, and you have refused to do so. We wanted to work together on those necessary solutions, and there was no such cooperation. We are now also offering cooperation or some kind of dialogue in a direction where the solutions will also be right, and unfortunately they are not. Therefore, I am sure that this rebalancing is not the answer that our country needs and will have a bad impact on our further competitiveness, on the development of the economy, on health care, on all times of social life, which is why it is not possible for me to support it, and not because we want to challenge you as an opposition, but because you will also find that this is something that will have to be rectified within a few months. I am even more curious about your product, which will probably be called "the best", if I may say so, the 2014 budget. At that time, however, it will be possible to see how this will be developed, how everything, from social, health and education, will have enough money, but I fear that these illusions will soon be over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Layla Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished representatives of the ministries, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The logic of power is always very complex and the criteria of truth are different. Practice and time always show what criteria and what truth is true. When I heard all this today, I can see that we are still missing this reciprocal altruism. This means re-cooperation, which would be at the forefront. Only by doing so will we have better economic and social results and fewer problems. Since I am most familiar with health care, I will talk about the money earmarked for or taken from the Ministry of Health and health in the 2013 budget rebalancing. I have to say from this town that I am not thrilled that 21 million are taken to health care, because we have a lot of health problems, including financial sustainability in the treasury, and yet I must say from this place that we are still maintaining public health through these resources that remain in our care; and this is what is very important. We do not change resources for medicines and medical devices, we do not change international development cooperation and humanitarian aid because they remain unchanged. For public health programmes we spend €11 million 051 more, but for primary health we do take €443,000 934 and just over 18 million for secondary and tertiary health. Rebalancing is something that's urgent. I would love to see it not today, but the sustainability of the financial system makes it necessary. From this point of view, I would like to commend all the members of the Health Committee, on which we considered the balance as a working mother, and the truth is that none of us really had a lot of comments. We accepted the rebalancing in fifteen minutes and there was no problem. I therefore thank all my colleagues and colleagues who are on the Health Committee. This has shown that we can also work together, work together, and understand certain things that are urgently accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you, too. All of you who have been reported to the debate in the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing in this part have received the floor. But it's an interest, so I'm inviting you to report it. Thank you. I give the word "magic." Majdi Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A few words at the show's expense first. Whether one or two of them are needed for the performance – it is inappropriately more dynamic if there are more. But what some in the hall have seen is that there is a need for an audience. Yesterday, at least two opposition Members and the Member of Parliament complained that the hall was empty, and as soon as they spoke up, they left the Chamber, too, and today it is similar. So everyone who performs expects the audience to pay him a lot of attention, and I must say that I am listening carefully to what some people are saying. That is why I would say at the outset, before I go into individual parts and specific issues relating to the balance sheet, this. It is nice for some experts to refer to them as real experts, but it is difficult if this label and this choice of experts deprive them of the possibility that they can also hear information that we can give them appropriate warnings or timely warnings, which would then lead to different decisions. This was the case with us that in 2008 we accepted many things that were in conflict with what had already been predicted and what experts warned about when they warned against overheating the Slovenian economy. But unfortunately, this has happened. Nor did this happen after I spoke of laws, corresponding reflections in the planned budget and the government that came for it had great difficulty in finding funds for all of this. Just as it is not right for some who now boast with peacock feathers to see what they have done before the pension reform has been adopted. In order to leave for retirement, at least so many are responsible for misinformed and disturbed people with incorrect information, and then Ivan Janša, who said when the mandate came, did not need to be reformed until 2015. But then we accepted the pension reform, and now that the colleague has already talked about what is bad about the balance, about women, I would say that the adopted pension reform, as far as women are concerned, is worse than what was rejected at the referendum. But that's what you have to say. Just as it has to be said that at a time when people were afraid of excessive savings and protested that now, when public higher education was threatened, we are listening to stories about how to establish now and then the public university at Dolenjska and the public university at Gorenjska and the public university in Celje; and this is said by the same people who are reading this rebalancing, that it is not sufficiently targeted and that it does not follow that basic objective of balancing public finances. This is said by those who, through the distribution of concessions in higher education under very questionable criteria, took from higher education funds when higher education warned of the impossible situation and when we reached last year in the National Assembly of Opposition Members and Members of Parliament that an amendment of 16 million had been adopted for higher education and when we also accepted the opposition's initiative to raise funds for school nutrition. All of this was not in the budget and came into the budget subsequently. Thus, who was ready to cooperate and who was not, would recall only one small thing, to which Mr Horvat regularly pointed out that the 2013 budget was historic because it was the only budget supported by the opposition. Otherwise, it doesn't say why the opposition supported it, and the reason is 16 million, because the Social Democrats keep our word, if we make a deal, then we do it, and we do it. I must say that this has been achieved in our Group of Members with great difficulties, that we have done as we have done. But look at why this balance that I see as a result of the adopted budget and some money transfers is now considered, because they will not be spent to the end. After all, since Minister Turk took the money from the Art Gallery in Maribor, which was envisaged in the framework of the EPK, he gave that money to the beer museum, but now the beer military museum will not spend those funds. Then what makes more sense? It is likely that the funds will be redistributed so that at least the funds will be spent. With regard to the drawing-up of European funds. The investment part was mainly related to investments drawn from European funds in the 2012 budget and also in the 2013 budget. At that time, we have warned that participation is also necessary for these European funds. The question was whether or not participation would be ensured. Transfers now tell us all about it. But the intransigence of the items, the shift from one, the incoherence – the word traceability has recently been very modern – so the incoherence of individual items was a fundamental deficit of the budget, to which we have warned the Social Democrats. When I'm talking about these general things, because there's also an obvious fact that we're disproportionately proposing from the urban part of the population to the non-urban population, from the poor to the rich, in fact, to the poor, it would only remind you of one small detail about the school policy of the former Minister, how he was also looking for funds in education. Also by predicting a change in standards and standards and changing the network of schools. Both in an unacceptable way. I'll tell you why. Due to the fact that a change of standards was announced at the expense of the economy, and not only the norms relating to the number of pupils as the above standards were not important, but it was particularly important that they also cut the lower standards, and this was therefore linked to the abolition of certain branch schools, the change in the status of individual schools. Who, then, is more likely to be negative against the countryside? When I was looking at some schools, I was last told in the Cowcle that if the standards began to change, they were before they closed. Then who will defend the eviction of this population? And there's a lot of other parts that you could detect the same thing. Here, in my opinion, you can see what a vision of an individual resource is, also embedded in a broader government area. And I will support the rebalancing because in education, science, sports, the things that I was most worried about in the previous budget, now that the norms and standards are ensured that 16 million are again provided for higher education, that the trifle, indeed, for a trifle, unfortunately only a trifle, also increases the science line. If we are looking at how the basic education line is increasing, then the item — since there was also a social balance of speech — is indeed lowering this item slightly on the school diet item according to the planned one, but in the light of the realisation in 2012. But this difference is at the expense of the inadequately planned necessary resources for school meals. It has ensured that these funds will be sufficient. But then, if we're talking about the ZUJF in one way or another, then let's say that the reduction in the student diet item is directly linked to the ZUJF, because the ZUJF abolished student holidays and also the right to transport. And so we could go from the item to the item, but you know, the ZUJF also has bad budgetary implications, because now some things have to be returned. What we're going to have to do is be seen that way, and how much of this is going to happen; but I want to warn again, the most perfidious, the most rude thing in the ZUJF was that with one law he reached into a number of others, 39 which he addressed, and some others; but that the ZUJF went into norms and standards. This is shown only now and then the current opposition Members are asking the current Minister about funding, but this funding is due to decisions made by the previous government. The previous Government adopted certain regulations or decisions on 2 August for the start of the school year last fall and could speak in a similar way. If I am now pursuing these items that I have been talking about, because I have already said something small; but what is most important, Slovenia is rebalancing in this part of education, science and sport – because of its investment and all the lowering or lowering, if we look at these items, we are returning to a group of countries that recognize education and science as the most important activities for the development of the country. The OECD data on the multiple effects of highly educated people should also be taken into account. What worries me, however, is that there is a constant warning from the opposition species that we must reduce the number of people involved in higher education. And they demand that the number in higher education included in the first year should be equal to the number of graduates, which is absurd. Instead of striving to have an increasingly well-educated population, we set ourselves some purely different expectations, and when we like to refer to European values, to European documents, we forget what is actually written in these European documents about the inclusion of both the population in higher education and the population in child care, for example. It seems to me like we're a bit of a split personality and we're doing this now. Since there are often evidences of double standards, I would say that when we think about these things, we do have double standards. It would be good if the esteemed opposition, however, looked at its behaviour a little more consistently and tried to coordinate at least in those parts financed by public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you, too. Matvež Frangež will discuss it next. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u110	Respected and respected! First of all, I cannot say that I am disturbed by the cheering mood that we always have in similar discussions in the National Assembly. Well, according to whose government is now in power, that's how it changes, at least it seems, the whole optics. Suddenly, the state of the country is great if you rule, and it's catastrophic if you're in opposition. I think that the situation should really worry and weigh us down and force us to listen and listen better. In today’s nearly 10 - hour debate, many important things were said. I'd like to focus on some of them. Now, the opposition's resistance against this rebalancing is mainly because of reduced revenues, we are moving the whole outage into an increased debt. In doing so, it should be recalled that the debt after this rebalancing is not in line, but lower than the financing programme adopted by the Janševa Government in early February. Therefore, nothing more dramatic is happening in this area than what the Janša government has already foreseen and defined in early February this year a framework for possible debt in this year is significantly broader than defined by the fiscal needs themselves this year. It is true that this is also a responsibility for the needs of the coming year, however. What would be the alternative to some selective cuts, as well as a reduction in some funds, such as European funds or investment funds? It is entirely possible that some EUR 600 million could be replaced in a different way, and the question is whether, according to the climate in the country, depending on our options and, above all, on the multi-application effect of the measures, this is appropriate or not. This government could, for example, opt for a more radical reduction in the salaries of public officials, a reduction in pension benefits, a reduction in pensions, a reduction in social transfers or, say, the total amount of funds allocated to the investment. However, the Government has not decided to do so because it understands that these steps would contribute even more to reducing domestic consumption and have a more fatal impact on the reduction of gross domestic product. I am therefore pleased that those selective measures have been chosen that will affect at least the least people in proportion and that will still allow at least approximately decent survival during this crisis. I think we're running out of time. The European Commission has said that it will assess in October the implementation of the stability programme and what is defined by this balance will have its final decision by October. In this respect, I would like to contribute to the seriousness of this debate, because the fact that we do not have all the luxury we have for the sake of the country's political excesses is no longer. We should now understand that it is indeed going and that it is necessary to step together and include in the set of measures all the same things that will most likely contribute to reaching a milestone. The conclusion – already in the position of the Group of Members – is that we believe that the best way of fiscal consolidation is in fact the impetus of economic activity. The recipe in which we were forced by the previous government is very clear and has proved to be harmful in many European countries, beginning with Greece, Spain, Portugal, and which means that reducing public consumption by reducing domestic consumption as well as other macroeconomic aggregates means reducing economic activity, which in the following year once again leads to an increased need for further fiscal consolidation, further painful cuts and so on. It's called a savings-debt spiral. Slovenia is on this saving debt spiral and was not before spring 2012. Of course, when I talk about the need to agree on at least some fundamental dimensions of facing and getting out of the crisis in this country, the assumption is that we have at least roughly the same values, that we want to preserve the social state even after this crisis, that we want to understand the impact on development that public education, the kind of shelter that is public health and some network of social protection services, which, when we stumble into our lives, helps us to trap softer in doing so, that we have some protection of the community in which we live. Fiscal effort is not enough, we hear from Brussels. I believe that these messages must also be taken seriously, while again stressing that the European Commission's diagnosis has unfortunately been too often wrong over the past five years and that it is now quite clear that the European Commission is under the influence of that infamous study, which has misrepresented the Eastern data, that we cannot escape the crisis through a austerity policy. I am therefore pleased that this government has chosen an intermediate path, more or less fortunately, between the policy of saving on the one hand and increasing revenue, and in particular that the allocation of funds has been devoted to both generating knowledge, enhancing the capacity of our people, protecting our people and restructuring and helping the economy. The largest proportion of large increases, of course, falls away from the pension allowance. I believe that, with the more careful planning of the budget, these costs could be anticipated in advance, up to €180 million, the payment of interest on past debts, where funds are also increasing, I think it is also under € 188 million, and funds for the recapitalisation of banks. This is a measure, we have been defending it all the time, and I understand that it is not entirely popular in the public eye. People often say in banks that we are constantly throwing money away, and it seems that there is no benefit, because we always have to rehabilitate it, and in view of the historical experience we have so far, it is necessary to attach this to the people's position to a great extent. Banks have been catastrophically managed, but I am convinced that this management disaster was mainly due to political staffing in these banks. I don't mind, at the time these banks processed and produced the largest volumes of today's bad investments, two state banks and their supervisory boards led two people with a Slovenian Democratic Party membership card. No offense, buddy, but I don't want to operate on names, but I can tell them if there's no historical memory. Banks need to be saved. This is our key problem with overindebted economies. With amendments to insolvency law, the government has already made it possible, I hope, to reach unresponsible owners more quickly with insolvency proceedings and to relieve businesses by maintaining healthy cores and jobs. On the other hand, I look forward to the law on systemic dissipation announced by the Government months ago, which means the operationalization of the so-called rapid bankruptcy. These are key measures to ensure that we achieve the mandate to reduce this fateful indebtedness of Slovenian companies. On the other hand, of course, this problem is solved by cleaning up the dirty balance sheets of our banks in one way or another. The Bank Claims Management Company will, of course, play a key role in this. Let me remind you that when the Social Democrats passed the law on strengthening the stability of the banking system, the law on the bad bank, we also opposed this law because of a series of warnings. When I read the warnings from Brussels today, I find that they actually say the same things with a six-month delay or something. The key concern that we then referred to the applicants of the bad bank was precisely the question of whether the banks and the state would be able to evaluate this asset in a fair manner that would not ultimately constitute State property damage on the one hand and, on the other hand, illegal State aid to banks. I would be pleased to have a colleague of Shircelj, who is not only my fellow Member, but also the president of the Management Board of the Company for Bank Claims Management in the National Assembly, say more. Because I'm afraid that we haven't had any information in the National Assembly in a long time about what's actually going on with the transfer of claims. The only information we have is those provided by the media, but there is no other information about the transmission. I expect from the Chairman of the Management Board of the Banks Claims Management Company, therefore I expect bad banks to provide the National Assembly with official information on the transfer process and what is behind the complications that are currently taking place. Let me mention here that I think that sitting in a chair while serving as the non-executive director of a bad bank is incompatible, in my opinion, according to a very clear directive of the Law on Members. Some also mentioned access to financial resources. I agree that the situation of Slovenia has deteriorated radically this year after the Cyprus crisis, but let me remind you that Slovenia's position in access to financial markets has deteriorated most radically when the previous government has reached its public financial goals or has not caught them; it has announced a 3.5% deficit, the deficit was in the end slightly over 4%; but "over-all" can be said to have reached an approximate result. At that time, however, financial markets proved to be very closed for other reasons, of course, for the purposes of Slovenia. What this tells us - that our lenders are not necessarily interested in what is the country's deficit, but in particular the question of whether we are able to settle our obligations to them. This will depend more on the level of our public debt than on the question of whether we are going to succeed in our economic activities and embark on the path of recovery, much sooner than on the issue of equilibrium in public finances. I agree that we have a problem here that our debt is growing rapidly, that this year's deficit is dangerous, but that it is high precisely because of the measures I mentioned earlier: the recapitalisation of banks, which was not previously taken into account, and by law, which you have adopted just before the budget, you have foreseen these measures for the pension fund and, as it is said, for the payment of interest. In Slovenian cafes, I hear many times that people are looking forward to threes, if we know ourselves, we can't agree on anything to have a threesome come and make order. I do not share this joy, I think the troika is already in a number of cases, but finally in an illustrative case Cyprus has shown that it is taking measures that promise the return of the loans on the easiest possible route, regardless of the characteristics of the national economy. That's why I'm calling for reason. We, Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens and the National Assembly in the first place need to know what needs to be protected in this country in order to come out of the crisis without making our long-term development worse. I apologize to my fellow Members in the parliamentary group for 15 minutes of the time I have burned for the purpose of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Jurša will be given the floor next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to all who are still sitting here today and following the debate where some are also discussing! It's true what the predecessor said that after 10 hours, there's probably not much more to say. But I wanted not to give any special contribution to this budget rebalancing, because you simply and simply cannot because we are not sharing, but in some ways we are reducing funds in almost all areas; some are stepping out, and that is why I would like to point out this. You know, it would be good for all of us to work together, regardless of political parties, left or right political options, even in the middle or as you want to understand, to try to realize that at this point there is no time for obvious, but that at this moment is primarily the time of pooling power to pull this country out of the mud in which it is located. You know, I've been following things since I was also a coalition member in the former government, of course, and I am now closely monitoring, as far as my ability and power is concerned, all that is happening in the Government or what is also happening in the National Assembly, and I can simply and simply complete all this information so that there are no significant differences, because I do not know how much choice. If it is obvious that we are raising taxes, of course it is not a popular measure for people, but I am sure that the government of Janez Janša would still be sitting in the government today, so that there is no great choice. It is good to say that we need to accelerate the development of the economy, and we do not have the right formula for that. We are taking such and different measures and we are assessing that a number of measures are not being implemented. We also have good indicators from some of the companies receiving aid from the past, and this aid has not been drawn by the company from the red numbers. See, revenue is actually falling by 527 million in this balance sheet, expenditure is increasing, despite the fact that money is being redistributed to a number of items, by 10.5 million euros. If we look at income, for example, 8.1 billion, and the expenditure is 9.6 billion, it gives us an eloquent picture of the deficit we have in this country and what else we will have to do to actually reduce this deficit. In view of the fact that some individuals within the National Assembly are talking about where the Government has proposed an increase in funds, I am primarily referring to salaries here, especially pensions and public debt servicing. Since I am a Member of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, I have something to say about pensions. I am sure that the same matter would be done by the same government if I called it that, on the one hand, because the other choices are simple and simply not. To the pensioners, two-thirds of them live below the poverty line — yes, but what else can we take from them, dear colleagues and colleagues? We can take some more of that dignity for the fall of life they have, or we can recommend it for a place where they will no longer need a pension. This is the only thing we have at our disposal. See, pensioners – everyone else got a regression for last year. This shows that we also had to increase some wage-based items. Pensioners who have a pension of more than €622 have not received this compensation for recreation. Some have received some compensation; those who have the smallest pensions are slightly higher, those who have up to €622, and those who have less. In addition, people had to simply and simply give up because they had a roof over their heads and were afraid that eventually they would lose it. Real pensions fell by around 5%. Coordination of pensions; we know exactly how much funding has been earmarked for the coordination of pensions, which has the duty to provide 50 million per year by a specific date for the coordination of pensions. We didn't even spend 10% on this coordination this year! Don't tell me what's been going on in the past year and so on. These are all contributions from an older population that lives in a insane, insanely modest way. But I'd like to point out some things. In fact, it was written in 1996 or 1997, when the then government did not care which government was at the head of the country, that reduced the contribution of employers to the pension fund by half, from slightly over 15% to 8.85. Okay! That was enough money back then. It was said that these funds would be intended to foster the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. I am not speaking at this time because this matter should now be raised again to this level, as it was in 1996 and 1997. No! No! But we all need to remember and realize that we have done something or done something and that we need to provide these funds from the budget. However, if we are not able to provide this from the budget, we will have to look for certain resources so that these people who have filled the pension fund will also have a decent life. In view of the fact that I am leading the Defence Committee in the National Assembly, I would like to say something more briefly about the resources devoted to defence and protection, with particular emphasis on defence or protection; it is said, protection and rescue. Given that Slovenia has a specific relief and is in fact subject to various natural disasters and then we are all well aware in Slovenia that these natural disasters have greatly affected our population. Unfortunately, we don't talk about this much when it's all settled, when it's quiet. But when it comes to that, we like to stress it very much. The financial plan for defence and protection in the Republic of Slovenia came to 1.02% of GDP, which represents a drastic decline compared to seeing that a few years ago, in 2008, we had 1.47% of GDP for protection and rescue and defence. Last year, I mentioned if the fall in resources for protection, rescue and defence will go down so that this balance and budget can simply and simply not be supported in person. I'm gonna have to eat that word this time. In fact, I'm aware that simply and simply, if you have nowhere to go, you have nothing to give. Yes, but in the future we will have to consider whether it is prudent to take on such an important area as protection and rescue. No, we shouldn't be taking! A lot of people would say yes, and we shouldn't take it in this area. This is about the safety of people, and this has also been plasticized by Mrs Ljubica Jelusič, and I think one of the discussers was talking about this – I think Franz Bogovic. Therefore, I would like to point out that in the future, when we talk about the 2014 budget, we must not go beyond this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mr. Lucky Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u114	Still a nice hello. Today we are actually talking about the present. Actually, we're talking about the future. And talking about what someone has done in the past doesn't have much success and it doesn't matter. Nothing helps me if we talk today about what John Janša said, what will happen in three months this year when we talk about our country. We should all talk about our country nice and good. Ladies and gentlemen, our task is to calm the atmosphere, that our messages are calm, that they are positive, that we see a way out of this crisis that we are in; not that we are trying in every way to tarnish everything that the current government is proposing, and we are always talking about what is wrong. Today, we are doing nothing but accepting a balance where only changes to what was adopted in the budget last year are made. A colleague or Ambassador Majda Pótt, whatever you want, told you how we acted last year when we adopted such a budget and also at the ZUJF. And that's how I imagine we're going to work in some way. You know, this has also been the subject today, and we say an infinite number of things about everyone stealing. Let's say it once! Let's tell someone who put these coverts in the bank! Let's say we have what we say we have to, and once we do what we can. Today, it was said in this hall that this government should say who approved the loan. We had a government for a year -- she didn't say anything. We had a government for three years -- she didn't say anything. We had a government for four years — but they didn't say anything. So there's a bunch of governments that haven't done what they're supposed to do. That is why I support those proposals, however, to adopt in the National Assembly a law that will not invalidate any dirty act and that we will take that property, sustain the one that has been unjustifiably acquired. This will be the best message of what we think and what we could do. And that's what I'd like to say. Our real, substantive debate has begun now, in recent times. So far, we have only discussed whether the budget is development-oriented or not, but Mr Jurša has told the problem of pensioners. What about the teachers? What about health and culture and sports and public administration and defence and research and education? What about this? And now that we're talking, let's cut public spending, then we're talking right, but we're thinking a little bit about it. Between us, ladies and gentlemen, it will be necessary to have an extraordinary substantive debate – and we all know that – where we will take something, that we will not do too much damage, and how we will make the conditions for economic growth to improve. That's actually our job. Our task will be to weigh what we can do in this budget. and that is the responsibility, honourable Members and Members, including all of us here, of reaching consensus between us when we tell people that it will be bad. People know. I mean, some people already have a lot of problems. People know that it's bad and they're willing to accept that they're going to give up on a lot of things, but forgive me, not the way that we give weird messages, that we talk about tycoons all the time, and we never say anything about those who steal, and we never show, and that we don't calm the atmosphere. We must give that hope to our people. All together, whoever we are, or the positions or opposition Members and Members, and then we have a chance that the budget in 2014 will be the one that will show the way out of this and then people will say that they are with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you, too. In the course of these discussions, Mr Jože Tanko has joined the debate and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! The introduction to this point was made by the President of the Government, Alenka Bratušek, and the Minister of Finance, Mr Uroš Chufer. Their introduction is one which is probably also very much defined by the course of debates, by the emphasis on debates, because I estimate that these are probably the two people who know the most about this budget balance, and that they will be alone in this debate or have been able to give the right emphasis. However, when I listened to Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek’s discussion, I felt that she was more concerned with history than with today’s state and future. Three quarters of her address in the National Assembly was devoted to the government of Janez Janša and to all the alleged errors made by that government in the 2013 budget planning. You can take a look at this from the magnetogram. With regard to the Minister of Finance, he was extremely modest, given that he had been in Brussels for two days defending the solutions to this budget rebalancing. He didn't really say anything about it, but we're going to individual statements first. Mrs Alenka Bratušek said that the main reason why a balance was needed was that the plan of the previous government was completely but really completely unrealistic. It is my opinion that it was made on the basis of those macroeconomic data that were then available and available, based on the autumn forecast of Umar and the government of these forecasts, that it does not – I don't know, it did not correct state statistics. On the basis of these assumptions on economic growth and other macroeconomic data, a budget has been drawn up. That this budget was not only so bad, it shows that it was supported by representatives of all the parties in the National Assembly, all the parties, not only by the then coalition, but also by a large majority of the opposition parties of the Social Democrats. 70% of Members voted in favour of this and also the representative of Positive Slovenia, current Minister Stanko Stepišnik. So, I wonder if really the 16 million when we supported the amendment were determined to support a budget worth 9 billion. Such a tiny little thing that starts on the fourth decimal. I doubt that this was an argument that would outweigh the fact that Member groups and some individuals support this budget. But they did, obviously with the knowledge that this budget was good. Only 10 Members were against it. Neither did the current Prime Minister, who is so vehemently critical of the former government's budget, objected to this budget. She was not against it, and Mr Potočnik was not against it, but the main commentator in this composition of this budget group. I wonder why. The other thing is. Madam Prime Minister, it is very embarrassing that you are easily mistaken for 20% – by the way, this is probably not difficult when this situation is very dynamic. But how many mistakes is there, say, in this coalition contract, which was written a few months later, like the budget and the budget? This coalition contract was written in early April and says that the budget deficit will be reduced. Three months after that, we have before us a proposal for a budget rebalancing which increases the issue enormously. Someone who has worked his entire life in state finances has been the custodian of the state budget, allows himself to write in a proposal for a coalition contract that the budget deficit will be reduced, and only about a month after that, there will be a diametrically opposite solution with a concrete proposal coming into the National Assembly. It is similar, for example, in drawing on European funds. Thus, the intensive use of European funds has been recorded, and with the balance of the budget we are witnessing an intense reduction in European funds. This is going in the opposite direction. And all the other things written in this part happen differently than was done or foretold. By the way, the President of the Government said that we had actually done the impossible and that they also acknowledged this in Brussels. I'd like to see that confession. Yesterday we witnessed information that Brussels said it did not agree with such a solution. We have received warnings regarding the implementation of plans in the public financial field. Things are going in a completely opposite direction as necessary or as foretold. There's something else I can find out. The accession of the current government is exactly the same as that of the Pahor government when it came to Janša's government. At the time, the budget deficit was extremely low at the end of 20085, 100 or 170 million euros. At that time, a model of reducing public sector employment and the Pahor government – the first measure it took – was set up, despite the major problems, the enormous increase in budgetary deficits and the release of public sector employment. See, these two measures were adopted at the time and it turned out that several thousand people were employed in the public sector, while elsewhere they were falling. It has happened that in three years we have raised the public debt by 100%. It is said that about 2 billion a year were owed during that period. We are now witnessing a similar approach. Public sector employment has also increased since it has been declining previously, and even now the budgetary deficit has increased enormously, which means that this public debt of the wall is being transferred to future generations and that the elasticity of the state budget is increasing. As we accelerate with such great dynamism the means to pay past liabilities, that is to say interest, the available budget resources are shrinking. Just a few more years with this concept are necessary and the budget will simply be completely blocked. Nothing will be possible to plan any more investments. The measures you have proposed are such that, in no case, economic growth does not improve the conditions for those who create economic growth. New taxes increase non-competitiveness, so to speak, the burdens of households and economies are increasing, both of them, which in fact affects the fact that the purchasing power of both is somehow decreasing because you get less for this, and this certainly cannot contribute to the fact that we will be competitive and that we will start the economy. The next problem with this budget rebalancing is that investments are declining. Thus, even where the country could help economic growth, the Global Fund is declining, it is less earmarked for investments. Even where money could be obtained from abroad, that is to say from European funds, things are falling. It is difficult to understand and difficult to explain to anyone that in some cases it is necessary to give the euro its own participation in order to receive four euro subsidies from European Union sources. In some cases it is three, in some cases it is two, somewhere co-financing is practically at 50:50. But we also have investments or projects where EU co-financing is up to 80%. It is interesting that where we get the free funds, it is said from the European Union funds, from the European Union funds, that part is falling. This will not make a full contribution to these investments. The problem is that there is, in fact, little or no savings in this budget. All that is savings is due to the former government, which has been extremely poor. The Public Finance Balance Act, which some of you have talked about, is obviously a real disaster, a reference worth every time you have to criticize anything in the previous government; but don't break the law; you bring its consequences forward. You've done nothing on your own in this area. Not only is it necessary to intervene, or it is necessary to interfere with health care and education, as some speak. It may also be necessary to cut into the multitude of institutions that this country has. Two hundred or more institutions, it is difficult to make even a list, and each one of these institutions has its own pyramid system, scheme, its own operating budget and so on. Nothing is done at the reorganisation of the state administration, things are going very slowly or almost not happening. Then, there's not much to expect from funding imported projects, inherited investments. Now the main concern of some departments is to provide resources almost without insurance or even uninsured for certain inherited investments. This is only the financing of an additional outflow of money from the state budget. Sooner or later, there's gonna be a bankruptcy, and it's gonna fall. [[Incomprehensible]] , responsibilities anywhere. Previously, some colleagues were talking about banks and a bank hole. We have a commission of inquiry set up, I hope that you will ensure the full participation of those who will be invited to the investigative commission, that is to say you will be provided with data, the Bank of Slovenia will provide data so that these investigation procedures can be successfully carried out. I must also point out that I have repeatedly pointed out that as regards the operation of the banking system – also the President of the current government was the supervisor in one of the Slovenian banks and also in its mandate there was an enormous reduction in the capital value of this bank, the outflow of investments abroad, lost funds and so on. So it would be best that before the finger points anywhere, the coalition first solves this within its own species; and this from the top, because at the top you have someone who is very well known, at least with the operation of the New Credit Bank Maribor to ensure that this will be settled and you also require responsibility eventually. Thus, there are many things in these matters that need to be pointed out and which, in our view, certainly do not give us any sufficient hope that anything in this area will take place. More or less, when I look at this budget or this budget rebalancing, I can only find that there is no concluded ring today around the National Assembly, like when we adopted the basic budget, then there was a circle around here, there were thousands of people protesting, with all the professors worth – there is no one today, and the situation with this rebalancing is drastically deteriorating in all areas. Even in the area of social, even sooner than before in the field of education one way or another, there are obviously some other intentions not to do anything about it. However, it seems to me that we spend too much or spend on dealing with what the previous government has done well, and that you do not actually see that this balance of the budget just makes things poor. With the measures you have taken and the current burdens, in addition to these penalties, all of this leads exclusively to the poverty of the population, to the work of the poor, in one way or another, all of those who will have problems with such enormous payments of demands to be made by the state in the form of property taxes on some rural facilities will make only the poor and realize, apparently, some project from 1942 when Moshe Pijade announced how to do these things. For there he said that they were mortal enemies of every good and order and peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The secretary of state wanted another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I would like to react once again to some of the comments. I've said a lot of this today, and I'm going to say it again. When we talk about the unrealities of the planning of the adopted budget, we do not think of the changed macroeconomic circumstances, but that it has been forgotten about the planning of the largest amount of pension funds in the area of ensuring the cost of financing interest, that the figures included in the adopted budget have not been supported by measures to achieve such a reduction in the mass of wage funds as was planned, and that they could achieve a reduction in transfers to public institutions as planned. Given that these measures have not been taken in the next two, three months, we cannot say otherwise than the unrealities of planning. If we want to show these issues or these expenditure in the adopted budget or in the revised budget, then we will actually get this result, as shown in the proposal for a rebalancing. I cannot agree that this proposal for a rebalancing does not bring any savings. I mentioned several times in today's debate that additional expenditure of €348 million had to be provided. These expenditure was provided by savings of EUR 337 and a half million. A further EUR 108 million and a half in salary savings, which was achieved through an agreement with the unions, must be included in this. And precisely because the government has devoted itself to social dialogue and has reached an agreement with the unions, that is what we can thank for today's absence of demonstrations before the National Assembly, as they were six months ago. If I comment briefly on the use of European funds. During the first four months of this year, € 175 million was spent on billions of €400 million. If we did not reduce this revenue and expenditure to a billion hundred, we would in fact maintain an unrealisticly high figure, both at income and at the expenditure level, and this would in no way contribute to a better use of the EU's resources. It is clear that the nature of transactions financed by European funds requires non-linear dynamics of payments. As every year, we also expect this year to see the bulk of the funds spent in the third quarter of this year, which will also allow timely applications for reimbursement to the state budget and also the transfer of funds from the European budget to the domestic budget. In the area of reducing investment, I should also reiterate that the realisation of all investment and investment transfer expenditure in 2012 was €770 million. This year's budget provides a balance of $160 million for investment and investment transfers, both for direct investment at the state level and for investments at local level. Several times today it has been mentioned that employment was released in April. I must say that the increased number of employees in the state administration during the month of April is more or less due to the need to provide employment for certain staff who have remained employed after the departure of the previous government, while additional jobs have been carried out to the confidence of individual ministers. In this respect, the comparison between 2008 and 2009 and 2013 is inappropriate. We must not forget that in early 2009 it was also necessary to pay for the first quarter of the abolition of wage imbalances and that the increase in the number of public sector employees in 2009 was intended to increase the people needed in the general public sector, in health care, education, pre-school care, and not in the public administration. As regards the Brussels warning, I must point out that this is a debate on the recommendations made by the European Commission at the end of May regarding the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme and in relation to the conclusions made by the Commission in early May on excessive macroeconomic imbalances. This is why we cannot talk about any new warning, but it is a matter of further monitoring the implementation of the recommendations made by the European Commission at the end of May. Last but not least, I'd like to say the following. Several of the mentioned tasks have been discussed by the President of the Government at the Ministry of Finance in previous mandates. I hope that all present or all of us in the National Assembly are aware that it is the responsibility to prepare and submit the budget to ministers and to the Government and not to public servants who must provide professional work in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I would like to remind you that we have quite a debate ahead of us, we will discuss the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing, all amendments, the development agenda plan and then the full proposal for a rebalancing. However, the time for discussion is still available, and I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss it in the context of the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Mr. Vizjak. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u120	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, few colleagues and colleagues! We heard from the Secretary of State, and I was somewhat disturbed by the fact that the treatment of Slovenia at the European Commission's meeting yesterday was completely normal. That is not true, we have been publicly placed on the agenda under different points, which is not customary in normal situations and is not a matter of ongoing monitoring. It is more than clear that the actions of this government, which are also illustrated in the budget rebalancing, do not meet the country's surplus deficit reduction programme, and that is why we have probably received or received this very much. Of course, it is normal for you to minimize it, but those who have already been there or heard anything similar know what it is. So don't flip and minimize something that's very serious. Moreover, I think that the European Union is in a relatively unfavourable situation today. Any destabilisation in any country is a serious problem and therefore any trend leading to destabilisation is closely monitored. The balance of the state budget you are proposing for this year is a step towards further destabilisation of public finances in Slovenia. I hope that if you don't believe us, that the Brussels experts will tell you that, and more likely, those who lend us money will tell you that in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should; for the first time, pour pure wine here and even discuss what this country needs to get out of this unpleasant situation. Does it need the policy demonstrated by the current president of the country and Prime Minister Borut Pahor, where we pressed our heads into the sand, to increase the country's current expenditure, our economy walked? So, on the expenditure side, we didn't do a god knows what, on the revenue side we've identified lower revenues and the result was enormous debt between 2009 and 2011. Another possibility is that we have learned from this and bet on the economy as a towed horse that will draw us out of this situation. And no one else! No one else in this country will make this country more profitable than more and better taxpayers. But this is not done by raising taxes, it is done by creating conditions for the economy to breathe. I was extremely pleased at the first commitment to start the economy between the priorities of the current coalition, where it says that we will strengthen competitiveness and improve the business environment. I know very well as the former Minister of Economic Affairs what this sentence means. This sentence means that you will improve horizontal operating conditions for all economic operators so that everyone can compete on better terms, create more, employ more and pay more taxes. This is beautifully written, but unfortunately, I have to say, three months after that we have witnessed completely different measures; measures by which the economy is further burdened. Higher taxes, in particular VAT does not only have a bad impact on the economy, because we all know that VAT is crucial, which causes a reduction in demand, and therefore, of course, the additional non-competitive position of suppliers. This raise in VAT, this was not mentioned today, is also the most a social tax, which means the worst blow to the poorest. Here I have heard from the representative of DeSUS, Mr Jurša, what concern they have for the poorest pensioners. The poorest pensioners were most hit by a VAT hike because this VAT increase in their incomes and expenditure would be the highest percentage in terms of the medium layer or the rich layer. The same is true for social supporters, the same is true for all others with the lowest income. In fact, higher VAT should also be paid by pensioners because they use electricity, use utility services and pay VAT, higher VAT, and the share they will devote to this is higher in their specific budget. In short, this is the most a social tax, we know all of which we can know, because it is neutral in terms of the income position of an individual and also the people who spend or spend it spend the largest share on basic necessities of life in terms of their income and the tax hits them most. You don't want to, that's the way it is, you've agreed to it, and by raising VAT it's the same as lower pensions or social transfers you've reduced by an additional percentage. This is said, in addition to the impact of the economy, you have also targeted a certain blow to the socially weak, despite the fact that you are full of other acquisitions of course. In addition, there are other taxes which are on the march and some unrealised commitments. You have committed yourself to improving the business environment for economic operators by also reducing the price of electricity for industrial waste by 10% within three months of the government. Three months after the government launched on 20 June, 20 June was quite over, the electricity prices for industrial waste, of course, are only even higher due to higher VAT and not lower. In short, of these recorded measures, which are intended to stimulate the economy, there is of course little fighting. This means that we have given up some systematic activity with those who can draw us out. I don't think that's good enough. I know that you will plead on balance B of the budget, on a number of measures from Balance B, even though you remove some important measures from Balance A to start the economy, but everyone who does anything in this area always, always, that these horizontal measures – that is, taxes, other burdens of the economy, what everyone pays, is the most crucial, important for economic growth. Moreover, investment is also important for economic growth. And the distinguished secretary of state, the pronunciation and comparison of the implementation of 2012 and the 2013 plan programme is, in fact, like comparing what did not bear fruit, because we have an economic downturn this year, and say so, because it was last year, let it continue. That is why the previous government has also been more ambitious, significantly more ambitious in planning investments, spending European funds, because, finally, we are also in the last year of the financial perspective. And once again, all these investment commitments are goals. These objectives cannot be achieved unless the whole government commits itself to these objectives with all its bureaucratic apparatus. Everyone has to breathe in this direction. But if they simply say you can't, you can't. On a specific occasion, I will tell you where the Ministry of Finance is also very involved that these investments are also impossible or slower than they could have been. A typical example is, for example, one of the very large energy projects that is going on and is relatively neutral with the state budget, this is the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava. After the construction of hydroelectric power plants, thank God, the State Spatial Plan for the Hydroelectric Brežice has already been adopted and preparatory work is under way, because if we were to get involved in this, it would probably take a little longer. The former Government has accepted a commitment to all stakeholders adopting the State Spatial Plan to adopt the State Spatial Plan for the Mokrice Hydropower Plant in June 2013. The current government has moved this into an uncertain future. Why? This is because the Ministry of Finance insists that the financial design of the project must be known before the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. So when accepting spatial documents of placement into space there must be a known financial structure! And that's why this project is being blocked and there is no State Spatial Plan and you're here today telling us that there is no project to draw on. If the country recognises certain projects as crucial, it can also implement them, especially if European funds or funds are also allocated to this effect, which would lead to a start-up of the economy. And these are, respectable, measures that ensure economic activity, as a result of which there are more payments to the various treasuryes of this budget or various cash registers and also to this budget. So, I want to tell you: instead of looking back and looking at what went wrong with the realization last year and then in some module you act in the future, look at what the priority of this country is today, what can solve this problem today. A little more on this unfortunate spending side of this rebalancing. Why am I calling it an accident? Because, hand to heart, she's too ambitious. Too ambitious not only because of the numbers we see here, but also because of the commitments of this government for the future. Minister Virant, in agreement with these 100 million you are singing, has pledged that there will be no other intervention in the norms, standards or any way concerning the salaries of public servants, which means that – and I ask you this question. Are you satisfied with this mass at the wage level of public sector expenditure, or will you take additional measures to limit wage in the public sector and the mass of other current expenditure and transfers, especially to public institutions? Is that what you're saying, or are you planning additional measures here? He understands that you can't even tell them because I don't want to hear them either, but I want to know what your goal is for 2014, to reduce these current expenditure and transfers for 2014. Today we have a situation, you're pleading status quo, that the previous government did this and did it and didn't do it, but I'm interested in what you're going to do in this area, or whether you're satisfied with the situation that it is. Then I wonder what the scenario of this deficit is going to be. I cannot help but remind you once again of the unrealistic planning that you are now going through, especially with the so-called Youth Employment Action. This measure, by which you will exempt employers from the payment of social security contributions, all for health insurance, pension insurance and unemployment insurance, for those employers who will employ a young person for up to 30 years for two years, this measure is commendable and supported by all. But on one condition: to know who is the payer of these contributions! Not like you suggested this payer wasn't here! With this you drill and make a loss in cash registers, for example. So if employers do not pay their contributions, young employees will have rights as they do, as if the contributions were paid, then someone will have to cover this manka. I ask you whether this is not a similar approach to the drilling of public finances and is extremely untransparent in the presentation. One more thing. Look, here we both know if there were no financial consequences of this, then it's perpetum mobile; someone's not paying contributions; they have the same rights and public cash registers are not damaged. Then it is best that we all forgive our contributions, if that is the case, because that is what it says in the explanation of that law and I do not believe this explanation. I am therefore pleased that today the Court of Auditors has responded to my letter to them and will ask the Ministry and Government how this fantastic solution imagines that it will work and will cost nothing. In the final stage, if it doesn't cost anything, why don't you accept the opposition's amendment in the sense that these contributions are paid by the budget. If they don't, or if they don't, there won't be any. One more thing. See, the resolution of the banking system is also one of the foundations followed by this balance sheet, so we also increase in the balance sheet B assets and so on. I am aware that state banks are extremely catechistic towards investors. Here we have the subordinate bonds of the Bank that investors bought for this purpose because they trusted the Slovenian banking system, the Slovenian banks. This bank does not pay interest to these investors, as is the case with their principal return, in great uncertainty. How do you expect Slovenian investors to still trust the Slovenian banking system if these are wiped out under their noses? These bonds were purchased, this is just one case, these bonds were also purchased by pension companies, they bought mutual funds, a lot of things are connected. How do we plan to build a solid, stable banking system with such poor trust as is evident through these specific bonds? This is where some credible banking starts and ends, because it's just based on trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State wanted a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I would like to answer the specific questions raised. First of all, as far as wage and transfer measures are concerned. The measures negotiated with the public sector trade unions for 2014 bring an additional €188, 189 million in wage savings. This is the starting point for us to start planning the 2014 supplementary budget. In this planning, we will assess whether these wage measures are sufficient or whether we will agree on possible additional measures. What was the government's commitment, I am speaking a little bit in mind, but I was so close that I think that the information is complete, is that the Government will not, through unilateral measures, introduce additional wage measures in the public sector. However, this does not mean that further negotiation, if necessary, will not be necessary. As regards transfers or related programmes carried out by public institutions, this will also be discussed and concrete actions and solutions in these areas will be made known when a supplementary draft budget for 2014 is submitted to the National Assembly. As regards the Youth Employment Project and the exemption from payment of employers' contributions to young people. Of course, if we think about this measure by allowing those young people who are currently employed for a certain period of time to reclassify their working relationship through this measure for an indefinite period of time, then we can talk about the deficit in public cash registers because they will now receive lower income from contributions because only workers will pay these contributions. However, if we are to see that young people who have not been employed so far will be employed through this measure, the situation is different. In this case, however, — or they have been, for example, health insurance through their parents — these young people will now pay certain contributions, not those that remain employed. As far as this year is concerned, even as the measure will enter into force on 1 November of this year, we estimate that the damage to public cash registers under this Title should not be or will not be. However, as regards the banking system and the question of interest payments in subordinated bonds, I cannot comment on the specific measures taken by A Bank because I do not know the contracts relating to the issue of these bonds, but as I am aware, certain banks, when issuing this type of bond, also have a certain possibility in their contracts with investors that interest is not paid periodically but is paid at the end of a certain period, and may, in this case, be actually for such contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jursha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u124	[[...]] [[microphone off]] I have to be quick because I don't have time, but I still have to answer my colleague Visiank. [[...]] Yeah, I've never been very excited about raising VAT, but I'm sure the government you've been sitting in would have done that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much. No, I'm afraid not, Mr. Visac, you've wasted your time. The Group of Members shall no longer be able to discuss at this point. Anyone else who has the rest of the time wants a word on the general part of the budget? If not, we conclude the debate in this part. The vote on the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing will be held tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes. We are also moving on to a particular part of the proposal for a rebalancing. Once again, I would like to point out that representatives of those parliamentary groups who still have time to discuss this. Does anyone want to discuss this part? If no one wants to discuss the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing, we will also conclude this part. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 9 July 2013. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to the debate on the amendments tabled to the four sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the NSI Group, the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Anybody want to talk? I see Mr Tonin reporting to the debate. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment refers to the money allocated by the State for infrastructure projects in municipalities. In Nova Slovenija, we estimate that municipalities are one of those last institutions of the state that are currently investing, which are still building from sidewalks, public lighting, sewers, plumbing and other things, and that it would be very important, in some way, to maintain the level of investment. In particular, this matter is important and crucial to redistribute around 26 million additional resources for projects at local level in order to complete projects linked to the European financial perspective 2007 to 2013, which is being concluded this year, and it would be crucial that the country provide its part of its co-financing capabilities and thus contribute to making as much of this European money available to local communities as possible. For this reason, we have proposed that an additional 26 million and a half be redeployed to the municipal level for local projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I'm not closing the debate. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme of the Incentives for the new businesses and their growth and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? If not, we are moving on to the next sub-programme, namely the sub-programme Providing a favourable environment for the development of tourism and the related amendment of the NSI Group. Would you like to discuss it? Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u128	This amendment is a result of the visit of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors to Kozjanska and Obsitel. There we also met with the representatives of Terme Olimje. We were presented with the whole story of how things are currently in Slovenian tourism. Tourism is one of the last well-established industries in Slovenia, which currently employs 46,000 people. Tourist workers there have warned us of a reduction in funds for the promotion of Slovenia. That seemed unacceptable to me. They said that the country must ensure everything and invest as much as possible in the promotion of Slovenia, that Slovenia will also be known across the borders of Trieste, Celovac, Budapest, if you want, then they will do or do the rest of the work that is needed to ensure good tourist products and invite as many foreign tourists to Slovenia. For this purpose, we have proposed an additional EUR 5 million to promote tourism.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I no longer see a desire to discuss this sub-programme, so we are concluding the debate. And we continue with the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia and the amendments of the NSI Group and the amendments of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. You don't want to discuss it, we can close the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. Therefore, the sub-programme is to address the consequences of natural disasters and the amendment of the NSI Group. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u130	We know for ourselves what the situation is and that there have been many natural disasters in recent years. The consequences of natural disasters from 2010 have not yet been resolved. The municipalities are expediting this and, of course, the state has to provide certain co-financing funds. It is in my home congregation that Kamnik threatens to stop certain beach rehabilitation projects precisely for the purpose of reducing these funds to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. For this reason, in our Group of Members, we are proposing an amendment to provide an additional eight million euros to address the consequences of natural disasters throughout the country. I think it's extremely important because it's about repairing watercourses, repairing reptiles and anything else that might prevent any worse consequences in the case of the following – God forbid – natural disasters.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Can we get this over with? So there's no more discussion on this subroutine. We continue with the budgetary user the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and to discuss the amendments tabled to the two sub-programmes in this budget user. The first sub-programme is a sub-programme for maintaining public railway infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group. There is no debate, we conclude. We are moving to a sub-programme Investment activities on railway infrastructure, as well as the SDS amendment. The SDS can't discuss it anymore because he doesn't have time. Anybody else? If not, we're closing the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and to the debate on the proposed amendment to this budgetary user, which was also submitted by the SDS Group to the sub-programme for the management and maintenance of state roads. Mr. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u132	If colleagues in the SDS are unable to discuss this, I will take this opportunity because I still have some time. All those who were mayors, all those who were municipal councilors, and all those who ever met Mr. Fick, who you know is a real little god, as far as building a road network across Slovenia is concerned, whenever we ask him for an individual section, if it can be restored, because the holes are really impossible, because the vehicle is completely destroyed, he always tells us: Opa Members, everything is possible, just provide us with money, then we will do it." There is also an opportunity for coalition Members to take advantage of this amendment of our colleagues from the SDS and provide additional funds and additional money for the reconstruction of these roads. There are quite a few of them, and I'd like to invite you to support this amendment. Especially will this amendment be useful when you ask for the rehabilitation of a section of the road. When you say there is no money, remember that you had the opportunity to vote on this amendment in order to secure this money.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Any other wishes for a debate? If not, we are moving to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Health and to the debate on the amendment tabled with this budgetary user. In the discussion, the sub-programme is Investment Investment at the secondary and tertiary level and the SDS Group's amendment. There's no debate. We're closing because we're done with the amendments to a special job. They will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Anyone want to discuss this part of the balance sheet? Mr. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u134	Apparently, my colleagues are tired of us discussing only in New Slovenia; but it's no big deal, Mrs. Potrata, I can see that there are other people's powers I'm just kidding, don't blame me. [[...]] In these matters, I would like to draw attention to the following when we talked about the 2013 budget rebalancing, and many committees have shown themselves, in particular, to the defence being one of such committees, where I have also worked together, that many things have been transferred to the development agenda plan – so that is what we will do next year. This has been repeated from the committee to the committee. But I think we have to tell people honestly what this means; that we are somehow blinding them because if there is no money this year, then it is hard to imagine that this money will be in 2014. As, last but not least, there is no expectation of any rapid improvement in the economic situation or of any drastic increase in the budgetary flows, I therefore consider these plans of development programmes to be somewhat unrealistic, over-potential. Nevertheless, I wish that what you wrote in these programs would be realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We can close the debate. As previously said, this part of the budget or the rebalancing will also be voted on tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are moving to the final part of the debate on this balance and I am also giving the opportunity to discuss the proposal for a full balance. Anybody want to talk? If not, we're closing this part. I announce that the vote will take place tomorrow as part of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY – PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON HAPPINESS Tax. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Mags. Matthew the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u136	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a Luck Tax Act is an integral part of the measures taken by the Government in support of the National Assembly in connection with the preparation of the 2013 budget rebalancing. The proposal for a law with this content was announced at the time of adoption of the 2013 and 2014 budget and at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in November 2012. Later, the Government's proposal, which will be presented below, was based on a draft, as prepared by the previous government. The proposal for a Lucky Tax Act seeks to introduce a new tax on the payment of tickets in the system for the adaptation of classical gambling. The main objective of the law is to share the burden of contributing to the consolidation of public finances and also to burden activities that have had a special situation in the tax system so far, at least as regards indirect taxes. The new tax is intended to be introduced in a way that would impose as little administrative burden as possible on the organizers of classical gambling. It is based on principles specific to modern systems under consumer or indirect taxes. The gambling service, including happiness sales services and other games, shall not be subject to value added tax. However, the fact is that these activities are burdened by other direct taxes. The Directive governing the VAT system in the European Union explicitly exempts such services from VAT accounting and leaves Member States to decide on other burdens of this activity. The key solutions to the bill are as follows. You're taxed on luck in the system of organizing classic gambling. According to the existing regulation, as set out in the Act on Gambling, these are lottery tickets, tombol plates, lucky tickets, betting cards and other certificates of payment of cash for participation in the game, as well as certificates of payment for access to the classic game of happiness offered online by the organizer. The debtors are organizers of classic gambling with valid concession. The Luck Tax, which is linked to the purchase of happiness, is the tax base of a sales price of a fortune that does not include that tax. Lucks are taxed at a uniform tax rate of 10% of its value. However, the happinesses issued by companies or non-profit humanitarian organisations established in the territory of Slovenia as part of the occasional informal arrangement of classical gambling for the purpose of raising funds to finance their own activities are exempt. We estimate that with the introduction of this tax form of the organiser of classical gambling, some €17 million could contribute to the budget, with a good €7 million expected this year. The assessment is based on the traffic achieved by the two organisers of classical gambling in 2011 and on the assumption of a certain reduction in fees due to the introduction of the tax. However, it should be said that both organisers had a better position or a better outcome in 2012 than in 2011. Taking into account all the above characteristics of the Proposal for a Law on Tax of Happiness, I propose that you support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vranitz. The proposal was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I give my word to the president. Here you go, Boyan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 62nd emergency meeting, 8. Seven. In 2013, the Government submitted the proposal for a Luck Tax Act to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 58th meeting, on 26. 6. He decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Committee shall have before it the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as the legislative and technical aspects, and has also made comments to Article 4, Title 4, and Articles 5, 8, 10 and 12. The Committee was also provided with the following material: Position of the Sport Foundation, Comments of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, Assessment of the impact of the possible introduction of the Law on the Lucks of Lottery of Slovenia of 27. 6. Comments of the Red Cross, comments of the National Council of Disabled Persons of 28. 6. 2013, Joint Declaration of the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, National Forum of Humanitarian Organisations of Slovenia of 5. Seven. 2013 and the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance of 4. Seven. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, namely Articles 4, 8 and 12 of the proposal of the Law of 5. 7. and the DL Group on Article 3 of the bill. At the meeting, members and members of the Committee were also invited to submit a proposal for an amendment to Article 7 of the SD Group Committee, which was adopted by the Committee in the debate. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, Fiho, the Lottery of Slovenia, the Sports Lottery and the Legal and Legal Service attended the meeting. We have heard earlier the purpose of the law passed by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the service in the written opinion had pointed to some of the under-defined definitions and that the amendments tabled followed the comments of the service in the written opinion and provided clearer definitions. The Vice-President of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance also participated in the debate, who explained that the Commission does not support the proposal. Representatives of the National Council of Disability Organisations of Slovenia, the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations of the Republic of Slovenia and the Lottery of Slovenia also took part in the debate, who expressed opposition to the proposed law and pointed out the negative consequences of the introduction of the Lucky Tax. In doing so, they focused in particular on reducing demand for gambling and transport services in Slovenia, reducing the influx of concession fees and reducing funds for the operation of disabled organisations. In the debate, individual members and the Committee expressed support for the transposed law, in particular in view of the positive impact on the financing of the State budget and the prevention of negative wages of gambling, such as addiction. On the contrary, individual members of the committee opposed the proposed law's happiness tax, particularly in view of the possible reduction of demand for gambling services and the reduction of funds for the operation of disabled and humanitarian and sports organisations. We devoted a lot of time to the debate on the amendment of the Civil Code to Article 3, which proposed that sports betting be excluded from taxation, then we also considered the proposal of the SD for an amendment of the Committee to Article 7, which we adopted, as I said. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we have adopted, after consideration, amendments to the parliamentary groups of the coalition, namely Articles 4, 8 and 12, and we have not accepted the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette by Article 3. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the law and adopted them. In view of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the draft law, which is an integral part of this report, is prepared and we propose that such an amended proposal be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Starman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Mr. Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u140	Respected and respected! It is quite clear that the main objective of this law is to provide a new source of funding for the state budget and thus create a small contribution to the consolidation of public finances. The new tax is introduced in a way that will impose as little administrative burden as possible on both the organizer of classical gambling and the tax administration. With the already existing tax on gambling, an additional tax relating to the purchase of happiness is introduced at a uniform tax rate of 10% of its value. The tax base is a sales ticket which does not include this tax. The tax obligation to notify at the time the payment for participating in the gambling game is made shall be deemed to have been made when the participant pays the monetary amount for participating in the gambling game. The proposed law will increase the revenue of the state budget by €7.3 million, which means that some other expenditure on the budget, such as investment, is not being reduced for this purpose. It is worth noting that we have heard comments from the Social Democrats on the part of the profession, as well as from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations on the one hand, and from the Sport Foundation on the other, as well as from the organisers of gambling, and that in this regard we are committed to closely monitoring the developments caused by the introduction of the tax, especially in the light of the fact that the sale of happiness for gambling through concession giving is also a fundamental source of funding for two important activities, two important foundations with general social objectives in our country. If it turns out that the introduction of this tax in order to reduce the revenues of these foundations will cause more fiscal damage than benefits, we are also committing ourselves to react accordingly. For all this reason, the Parliamentary Common of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the taxation of happiness.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, Mr Marko Pavlisic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Vraničar, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Consolidation of public finances is a goal that we strongly support in the National Gazette, but as we must not save at all costs, we must not raise taxes at all costs; and in this case the price is too high. Although it is also about sports betting for gambling, the logic of sports betting itself is different. Unlike classic gambling, when a player has a multi-thousand or a million-fold gain in mind, sports betting often has a much lower ratio. For these lower ratios, the proposed taxation is simply meaningless. Very often, though, it can be that when a person is asked to do so, the payment is lower than the payment. This, of course, makes no sense, so the organizers of sports betting will be forced to turn down their offer and not offer certain games to their players. What will sports enthusiasts and acquaintances do who won't be able to bet on their favorite team, let it be Bayern, Mura or Barça? They're already betting on the Internet abroad. They are already making an organized wager abroad for better betting relations. With this blow, this law will strengthen it. Anyone who opens an account abroad, we can be sure of that, will never return, will be paid abroad. He may also pay lower taxes there, and some may not pay lower taxes. In addition to the country, the organizers of sports betting as well as the disabled and sports companies financed by this title will also remain incomeless in Slovenia. But the rest of us will have all the problems that this kind of game is accompanied by, problems related to addiction. In the Civil Gazette, we are aware that in addition to spending, income must also be worked on. That is why we have sought a compromise in the National Gazette. We proposed an amendment that at least sports bets should be excluded from this type of taxation. The rejected amendment on the committee does not now give us any other option than to reject the law in its entirety. Only a different way of taxation, one that taxes the difference between payments and payments, and even though in a higher percentage, would solve most of the problems mentioned, and for that there was no obedience. A respected choir! We must make a decision whether this farm, this Slovenia, where we plant our hopes, that our children too, is run by a servant or a master. The difference between the first and the second, between the servant and the master, is that the servant also eats seed potatoes in winter and that is why he is and remains a servant. We must never lose hope in the future and eat seed potatoes. Never! We owe this to our children. Gambling is not something to be proud of, nor is smoking or alcoholism, but it is not the economic sectors that give bread to many. We can destroy them, but consumption may remain slightly lower, and the offer will come from abroad, where jobs will go. In short, problems will remain, jobs are unfortunately not. In the Civil Gazette, we advocate an encouraging business environment, which only in the long run can mean the development of Slovenia. Such a business environment contains a well-functioning legal system, efficient administrative services, excellent infrastructure and an appropriate tax system. We are working in all areas in the Civil Gazette. Today, we are discussing a change in the tax system, inadequate changes, so we do not support them in the Civil Gazette. The vote will show who is on the side of the economy in Slovenia, in which case one industry. Every job is important, every sector is important. The vote will show who is great only in words and who goes from words to action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, Ladies and Members of Parliament! It's a proposal for a lucky tax law. To begin with, the law would simplify and rename it into a proposal for a tax law for the lotteries of Slovenia and the Sports lottery, because these two companies will be the main bearers of this new tax burden. Something like this has already been prepared in the previous mandate, but in the Slovenian People's Party we have already made it clear in that single coalition coordination in the previous mandate that if we tax only these two companies, people will be looking for happiness with other foreign providers and that such taxation makes no sense. Thus, in the introduction, we do not accept in the Slovenian People's Party any excuse that this is the law of the previous coalition. We had already clearly pointed out the above-mentioned issues, the law was not harmonised and in such a form it did not have the support of the Slovenian People's Party. Why? Slovenia is part of the European Economic Area, including in the field of gambling. There's practically no number of bidders. The gambling providers in Slovenia, which are already already above averagely burdened by comparable countries, will make this tax even less competitive. What will happen to tax revenue and concession revenue if Slovenians play classical gambling elsewhere because of the internet and much easier access to other gambling in other countries? What kind of guards do we have for this? How do we control this, and how do we tax these movements? This law thus taxes those tenderers we have at our disposal. What about the others? Who's gonna tax them? We are talking about illegal tenderers, for whom the Secretary-General has publicly acknowledged that they have great difficulties in limiting them. We are talking about other registered foreign providers, especially in games that are played online and are based on companies in favourable tax environments. This is particularly the case in the field of sports betting. In short, we do what you like to do, respected government, even in the economy in general lately. Your mouth is full of how we must encourage the economy, and on the other hand you only invent additional obstacles and burdens to make their lives even more complicated. But we know well that our companies must compete in an international environment and not only within the borders of our country. These two companies, which we tax most of today, are important financiers of disability, humanitarian and sports organisations. What happens when you are financially weakened by the new tax? Who are you going to take away the source of income from? So now we see who you're taking with this law, a respected government that is so just. To these organizations, disabled people, athletes, those who need help. To date, there has been at least something good about gambling, and from now on only foreigners will benefit from Slovenian players. For humanitarianism, for disability organisations and for everything that both companies are now contributing, there will be no euro from providers abroad, and at the very least it will come into the state budget. This tax is practically irrelevant in terms of its impact on public finances. We are talking about a few million, it will no longer be collected, but this is a fine example of how increasing the tax burden, i.e. recklessly raising taxes at all costs, can be extremely harmful for the entire economic sector. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support it in such a form and strongly oppose it, as the financial impact, according to our belief, is negligible or even negative.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, Mrs. Marija Plevčak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone for as long as there are! Initially, it should be noted that the introduction of a tax on happiness has been on our tables for quite some time. First, as a matter of coordination, now as a proposal for a law that we will decide on. Not only that, but the proposal of the law with this matter was made a long time ago, so no one can say that there was not enough time to examine it in detail and make any comments. In our Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we have dealt with and supported it. The proposal of this law, like other tax laws, follows the basic principles of what needs to be defined so that a new tax can be introduced. This is how they are properly regulated: subject to taxation, exemptions, taxpayers, formation of a tax liability, tax base, tax rate and so on. From this point of view, the proposal is appropriate for us. However, we all know why we have approached the introduction of this measure, namely a new tax. No one denies that the main reason is simply an additional source of funding for the state budget. Why is this urgent? We know that there was no political option in the time of the fat cows to introduce an additional tax at all. Whether this tax will actually fill the budget at the estimated level is questionable. But we won't be able to figure it out until the end of the year. Then we will confirm or reject any concerns about this tax expressed at the working body’s own meeting. The fact is that this tax will be passed on to the final consumer. There is a possibility that the latter will limit demand, which is not necessarily to take it as a bad thing. In terms of preventing the negative effects of gambling, particularly addiction, this effect is also positive. It is true, however, that in this area it is a problem, it is a gambling addiction and the unregistered gambling players, they are also online providers. But it's not the substance of this law, and it's another time. The substance of this law is the taxation of desire for happiness, of course if you have it, taxation of leisure activity, after most of the small amounts. Therefore, according to the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, the fear of falling in the direction of buying happiness is exaggerated.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Plevčak. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u148	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! The Luck Tax Act is a measure designed primarily to increase public revenue. It is clear from the Government's explanation that this is how they expect €7.3 million in 2013 and €10.1 million in the following year. The subject of taxation is the happiness of classical gambling, at a tax rate of 10% of the sold happiness. There are only two companies in Slovenia that have a concession to organize classical gambling, namely the Lottery of Slovenia and the Sports Lottery. Some introductory information to start with. In Novi Slovenija, we are particularly stressing the problem of online gambling, which has been mentioned several times today and which are increasingly widespread, but which is not covered by this law that we are considering today. The organisers of online gambling are always and still effectively avoiding control and also any form of taxation. These kinds of games, i.e. online gambling, should be our first objective of taxation because they are the most massive, that's one reason. The second, very important reason is that it is these online gambling that creates the greatest addiction of players. But like I said, these games of luck under this law are not covered. On our proposal today, Members received a number of warnings from humanitarian, sports and other disabled organisations, foundations and societies funded by concession fees from classical gambling. All these entities have alerted us to the possibility of a greater decline and a reduction in funds for their operation. This is also one of the key and main reasons why in Novi Slovenija we decided not to support this law. So if I take the essentials again: we will not support this law in Novi Slovenija because it in some way endangers the functioning of humanitarian organisations, and secondly, because it does not include taxation of online gambling.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mrs Aleksandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Indeed, the main objective of the law is to provide a new source of funding for the state budget and thus contribute to the consolidation of public finances. The new tax is intended to be introduced in a way that would impose as little administrative burden on the tax authority as possible, as well as on the two organizers of classical gambling, who have the only valid concession in Slovenia, namely Lotterija Slovenije and Sport lottery. I must mention here that this tax is not some new invention of this government. The fortune tax was already foreseen when the 2013 budget was planned and as well as a number of items of the planned budget were not introduced last year. As we will hear again today, I am sure that the 2013 budget rebalancing or correction is necessary because of the misplanning of both the expenditure and revenue sides of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. Today, in the context of the revenue side of the budget, we are considering the proposal for a law on taxation of happiness. As I said before, this tax was already planned at the time of the preparation and adoption of the 2013 budget. The tax is also provided for in the stability programme, which, as we know, has been subject to the assessment and recommendations of the EU Council. Lucky tax is a traffic tax that will tax classical gambling, so it's a tax on lottery tickets, tombol plates, betting cards, sweethearts and so on. Otherwise, the main objective of the tax is to provide a new source of funding for the budget, but the introduction of this tax also has a positive and indirect objective, and this is to prevent addiction to gambling. Addiction, which is on the rise and which is particularly worrying in the population of young people. In the developed world, as reported in the studies, more than 20% of the total population is affected by gambling. In 2013, the draft law itself will result in net higher government budget revenues of €7.3 million in 2013 and €10.1 million in 2014, which means that it will fill the state budget by the end of 2014 with €17.4 million. In addition to the already existing tax on gambling, an additional tax is proposed for the purchase of happiness at a uniform rate of 10 % of its value. The tax base is the sales price of a fortune that does not include that tax. The tax liability arises at the moment the payment is made for participation in the gambling game. The payment shall be deemed to have been made when the participant pays the monetary amount for participation in the gambling game. If I just illustrate what this means; the happiness that costs one euro today will cost 1.1 Euros with a higher tax that is likely to be passed on to the consumer. I think and I believe that this is a reflection that will not have a significant impact on demand alone. During the public hearing, many questions arose regarding the negative consequences of the introduction of a tax on happiness. In particular, the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations and the Sport Foundation, whose main source of funding stems from gambling, have raised strong concerns. It should be pointed out that taxation will be exempt from the happinesses issued by societies and humanitarian organisations established in the Republic of Slovenia as part of the occasional, informal adjustment of gambling for the purpose of raising funds to finance their own activities. The Ministry of Finance's assessment in drafting the law was that, due to the introduction of a tax-free tax, revenue would be reduced by 7 %, corresponding to the findings from the literature that the price elasticity of demand is around minus 0.7, which means that the price rise by 10% represents a 7 % decrease in the quantity of demand. The demand in this case would be down by 7%. However, literature and practice show that in a period of uncertainty, crisis and recession, to which we are alone, the demand for gambling is increasing and growing. All of these are facts and data that have convinced us in the Positive Slovenia Group, so we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you very much. More mag. Mr Andrej Shircelj on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State! Given that most of the predecessors have already explained the subject of taxation of the taxpayer, exemption and so on, I will not repeat this. I'd say the tax is completely neutral. Taxes the luck that strikes and taxes the happiness that does not hit, which means that it taxes both happiness and disaster — for those who, of course, buy happiness. In fact, this is a 10% rate, and happiness and accident are taxed, which is also part of any tax policy. This also means that this tax has certain advantages, in particular of a fiscal nature. It also means more revenue, but it also means some shortcomings, especially when demand is reduced due to the tax itself, and of course if these two organisations, say, Sports lottery and Lottery Slovenia, actually pass the whole tax on the consumer, on a player who buys happiness or can also get an accident; it is more likely that he will get an accident, because it is only by doing so that all these organisations can operate and finance – here I think Lottery Slovenia and Sports lottery – also disabled organisations and other humanitarian and sports organisations. Here is the point, and here we need to look very carefully at whether this tax will bring less money for the disabled, less money for athletes and less money for other humanitarian organisations. If so, then this money will have to be replaced from other sources, it is said, from the budget, from another tax, which means that we have not achieved anything with this tax. It will mean that these humanitarian and disability organisations will be financed from elsewhere or will be reduced by their financial resources, their finances will be reduced and they will therefore be in a worse social situation. This is, of course, negative, and we need to be very careful about this. Secondly, what I think we need to pay attention to is competitiveness. It is important to pay attention to whether this tax is competitive with taxation of similar happinesses, similar to taxation of happiness and accidents in neighbouring countries and what is happening to the Internet here. We know that for a long time there have been different solutions to how to control online gambling, and here, unfortunately, we have not found the right solutions. Which, of course, means that online gambling has a certain advantage, and given that they are organised internationally, therefore they also represent a competitive advantage, which means that money flows to other countries, if you like, also to tax havens where operators of such games luckily also have their base or seat. In short, it is certainly a great threat to this tax that it will not achieve its objective. Let me draw your attention to the next matter. This is a partial measure, a partial tax, and we all know that we have very poorly organised gambling in Slovenia and that legislation governing gambling should be amended. Both the games of happiness organised by various lotteries, as well as those gambling that are organized in casinos, in gaming salons, etc. Here I appeal to this government to amend this legislation, to start amending legislation and to actually modernise this legislation, both as regards ownership and as regards the award of concessions and also as regards the collection and control of this tax and these taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-10-SDZ6-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I also conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on this proposal will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and, for today, the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
