ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 33rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Dr Vinko Gorenak, mag. Marko Pogačnik, Mr Matevž Frangež, Mr Roberto Battelli, Dr. László Göncz, Mr. Andrej Čuš, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Ivan Grill, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Robert Hrovat, Mr Jakob Preseknik, Mr Janez Ribič, Mr Franc Jurša and Mr Ivan Hršak. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, 26 April 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. Before triggering the vote, I would like to warn you to check the voting devices. We're voting. There are 38 Members and Members present, which is not enough to be able to adopt the agenda. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall put the vote on the agenda for the second time to the vote. For the second time, we are voting on the draft agenda. We're voting. Forty Members and Members were present, and no draft agenda was adopted after a second attempt. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will decide on the agenda for the third time after 10 minutes. Procedural Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u2	Thank you very much. For the sake of the public, because of the Slovenes and Slovenians, citizens and citizens, I must say that this is too much. It's an extraordinary session. I know that all Members have not yet come to the hall and that we have not been gathered together in at least 45 so that we can begin the meeting. On the other hand, members of the SDS were sitting in the hall, and they were eager to drive us through the water and did not vote on the agenda. [[advertising from the hall]] No, I'll just say it. It is the fate of 280 people from Tržič who are employed in Pek! I don't think that's the right way to go politics, ladies and gentlemen from SDS! That's incorrect! It's true we're not all in the hall, but please don't fuck with people. It's impossible what you're doing. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u3	Wait a minute! I'd warn you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u4	No, no. I mean, look, I can be naive. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u5	You'll have to make a procedural proposal, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u6	I'm sorry. I may be naive, I may be stupid, but I'm honest, and I'm not fucked up. What's happening right now – we can wait until midnight and we'll be standing here, in this room, but you can cynically laugh at us and not press the button so that we can start the session [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u7	Mr. Han [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u8	But for me, it's irresponsible. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u9	I suggest that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u10	That's what I had to say, even if I broke the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u11	follow the rules of procedure. [[...]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been made and the rules of procedure have been violated. I remain at the conclusion that the third vote will be in 10 minutes at 2.16 p.m. I'm adjourning session until 14.16.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u12	Dear Members and Members! We continue our decision-making by the third decision setting out the agenda of the 33rd extraordinary meeting. Mr. Tanko, you want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not think it is good that you allowed the leader of your parliamentary group to process members of the opposition parties after the meeting. I would like to say that the work of the National Assembly is governed by the Rules of Procedure, that the President of the National Assembly convened a meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the agreement of the College, at the request of the Coalition Members. Unfortunately, those who requested this meeting were not in the Chamber at the time of the vote. I suggest that you ensure such a way of working in the coalition so that at least the elementary things like, say, confirming the agenda of the meeting can be confirmed. This meeting today, this agenda item would not have been if we had confirmed the classification two days ago. But since you have not done so, we are now dealing with individual cases of confirmations, property sales, privatisation, etc. Do not work in such an arrogant way for Members of our Group. Even though we found out about the meeting five minutes before 11:00, we came to a meeting in sufficient numbers. Despite the fact that you delivered the material to the committee meeting and placed it on the agenda when it was not the agenda item, we did not educate you and discredit you, not on the committee or in public. I suggest that if you are already going to do these things, that you are going to do them in accordance with the rules in force in the National Assembly, right for Members, right for the public, and that no one has to challenge how he voted, why he voted like that, etc. At least for the agenda, be adamant and confirm it, and this agenda, which is specifically on your request. Please don't serve in future such discredits, such gallbladder spills. We will do our part, even in a sufficient number, but you are the one who must provide certain things, both in confirming the agendas and in deciding on the content that will come on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u14	Thank you. I need to give you another explanation. Your debate was also not in accordance with the rules of procedure and you did not propose a procedural proposal. I have similarly warned Mr Han earlier, but I must explain that I gave Mr Han a word for a motion of procedure before I interrupted the meeting. I have announced that we will vote in 10 minutes for the third time, but only after a procedural proposal did I make it clear that I am terminating the meeting and that we will continue at 14.16. I hope that this will explain the procedure for voting on the agenda. Mr Han, if you are going to make a procedural proposal, then I suggest that this is a real procedural proposal, or I will have to tell you that you can't paralyze or anything like that. Okay, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u15	Everyone makes a mistake in their lives. I must apologize to the SDS Group for the gravely spoken words, but believe me, some of us are just people. I agree, Jože, with you when you said that the coalition must provide enough votes to be able to vote on either the law or the agenda. In this case, however, we have known each other for so long that it was a maneuver that was not needed. Once again, I apologize for the words spoken and also apologize to the President of the National Assembly for really taking advantage of the procedural proposal. What I think is intimate, but it's my business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u16	All right, well, I think sports spirit has prevailed, if I may say so, mutual respect. I warn you to check the functioning of the voting apparatus before we move on to a re-decision on the agenda. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for an agreement on the alienation of capital investment by D. S.U., Lighting and Management Companies, D.O.O., in the Burning Company, T-shirt factory, D.D. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Government pursuant to Article 38, paragraph 12, of the Slovenian State Holding Act. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Stank Stepišnik, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On 28 March 2013, the Commission, which led the process of joint sale of Pekko’s shares, d.d., hereinafter referred to the Commission, submitted a final report on the procedure to the Pek owners’ administrations. Their authorities have adopted a decision on the sale of their ownership shares to Ciompex, d. o. o. Key elements of the offer: purchase of a 100 % equity share of around EUR 2 million, slightly higher; guaranteed minimum number of employees in the period 2013-2017 out of 380 employees 280 employees, i.e. Pekko, d.d., and PGP Inde, d.o.o.; guaranteed recapitalisation of Peko, d.d., EUR 2 million at the time of the transfer of ownership, EUR 6 million by 2017; guaranteed investments of EUR 2 million to finance technological updates, the development of new products, the modernisation of the sales network it has, and also for the strengthening of the brand; provision of debt financing of EUR 2 million for the purchase of material and cash products for the immediate placement of sales policies. Guarantees: solidarity guarantee of the company Crompex, d.o.o., Feroimpex, d.o.o., Đuro Djaković – Welded containers, d. d., Building Engineering Osijek, d.o.o., and the owner himself Mr. Biloš, debtor. During the course of the procedure, the rating of Ciompex and other weddings was verified, indicating the average situation of those companies in the light of the general economic situation, but the estimates were based on financial data by the end of 2011, as the others were not available. Following the closure of the proceedings, the Court carried out further checks on the assets of the companies, property through the Croatian law firm Vedriš&Partners, which concludes that most companies, with the exception of Feroimpex, do not have such unladen immovable property at the time of the preparation of the report, in order to ensure payment of all obligations, except for Ferroimpex. In a meeting between me, the representatives of the Court, D. S.U. and Crompex’s suppliers on 2 April 2013 were exposed to the issue of insurance, and the provider was invited to submit additional insurance in the form of a bank guarantee, what we all want, real estate flags etc., which it was not prepared to offer below. Company D. On 10 April, the S.U., d.o.o., forwarded to the Ministry of Finance the existing material for obtaining the consent of the National Assembly to sell, in accordance with Article 38, paragraph 12, of the Slovenian State Holding Act, to which it also annexed the material of the Court. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall meet at its meeting on 18. 4. She has not yet decided to provide material for the consideration of the National Assembly because we wanted to improve further the guarantees offered by the buyer. Additional negotiations were held between 18 and 21 April between the representatives of MGRT and Ciompex, on a proposal from State Secretary Gaspar Gaspar Mišić, which resulted in an agreement for the Republic of Slovenia to obtain an additional guarantee for the payment of contractual penalties, an option for a period of 5 years. In the event of a breach of the contract by Crompex and the non-payment of contractual penalties, the Republic of Slovenia shall have the right to buy back the entire stake, a 100 % stake in Pek over a period of 5 years. To this end, an annex to the existing sales contract was also drawn up. It is also agreed that all major business events must be informed by the buyer of the Republic of Slovenia. If it does not work in accordance with the restructuring programme and in the sense of a good host, all the penalties listed in the contract may be cashed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u18	Thank you, Minister, for further explanation of the proposal for the decision. The proposal for a decision was also addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 53rd urgent meeting, on 26. 4. 2013 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to alienate capital investment D. S.U., consultancy and management companies, d.o.o., in the company Peko, shoe factory, d.d. submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the act submitted in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects of it. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Legal and Legislative Services attended the meetings of the Committee. The Minister of Economy was also present. The Minister for Economic Development and Technology, which presented the sale of Peko to Ciompex, d.o.o., presented the initial supplementary explanation to the proposal for a decision as the only option for the survival of that company. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further stated that the service submitted did not have any comments. In general, support for the sale of Peko was expressed in the debate, but the members and members of the Committee pointed to individual dilemmas and expressed a number of concerns about its sale to the selected bidder, Crompex. In doing so, some members and members of the Committee pointed out, in particular, the issues related to the credibility of the buyer concerned and the guarantees provided to ensure that the activities and jobs of employees in Pekko could be maintained. The members were also interested in the number of properties owned by Peko and the value of the company's debt and the estimated value of the underlying assets. Some members felt that there was no time to decide, since the time limit for sale was 30. 4. There are no other buyers for Peko. They also consider that there are no other options for selling, which the co-owner also agrees with. In the event that the sale fails, Pekko’s bankruptcy and job losses follow. In addition, the Minister of Economic Development and Technology and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance replied to the opinions and dilemmas expressed by the members and members of the Committee, stressing that the proposed solution would enable the rescue and survival of Peko, d.d., and many jobs. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the proposal for a decision and adopted it. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft decision on the working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to alienate capital investment D. S.U., consultancy and management companies, d.o.o., in the company Peko, shoe factory, d.d., shall adopt the text submitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u20	Thank you for presenting the committee report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u21	Good afternoon, Honourable President of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Honourable Minister with Fellow Workers! In Slovenia, we do not yet have an active holding company that combines the investments of the Republic of Slovenia under one roof and professionally, has made sovereign decisions on such matters as the sale of state shares in Slovenian companies. This is also the main reason for today's extraordinary meeting, which is now being decided by Parliament. The Committee on Finance also received material into the hands practically at the beginning of the meeting. The meeting was convened today during the day, as well as the National Assembly had a number of problems with the conclusion at first. In such circumstances, we reviewed the material on the Committee, which shows that Pekko, who has no secret, has been in difficulty for years now, probably after the failure of the recapitalisation for which the conclusions were taken at the end of 2011 and the recapitalisation took place in January 2012, found itself in a situation where the company is being sold. Two buyers signed up for the sale. The Expert Commission has drawn up a proposal on the basis of which we today decide that this more than 90% share should be combined between the Republic of Slovenia and D. S.U., we're selling now. A number of questions addressed to representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology are unfortunately not answered by the Committee on Finance, which would somehow answer key questions. Is the insurance of this purchase by customers safe enough? Are these guarantees, which we have heard are not bankable, but in the guarantee of the company itself, firmly enough to ensure that this will not be one of the failures in Slovenia when we do not know how to make a fair bankruptcy or liquidation, but the sale of property takes place? We are all aware that if this sale succeeds and these 280 jobs will be successfully preserved in the coming years, by 2017, as it says in the works, we will do a good job today and in some way save the social distress of the people in Pek and around Tržič. Unfortunately, we have no assurance of the position of the local community. Those who came informally are such that the mayor is not aware of this sale in detail, but if he makes his own decisions, there are also signs that he would not have a very light heart to support this sale, but that he has a scepticism about the sale. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that no one dealing with this problem has an easy job, so we do not intend to oppose this decision. However, we certainly have a problem with support, given that there are still some unknowns and things that we should be given answers to today before we decide to support such a decision in the parliamentary group and in the National Assembly. If I withdraw, we will not oppose this sale in the Slovenian People's Party, but unfortunately from the materials we have received in hand, we are not too optimistic to talk about 280 jobs in Pekko Tržič in one year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u22	Thank you. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u23	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! Let me begin my position on the DeSUS Group by repeating the conclusions we adopted unanimously by the members and members of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on the issue of Peko on 21 February this year. They were taken under the previous government. In addition to familiarising ourselves with the issue of Pek in the debate, we agreed to sell Pekko. We called on the Government to carry out as soon as possible all necessary for the successful sale of Pek and expressed its expectation from the Government that, in the event of a decision to sell to the best bidder, the National Assembly would consider the agreement to sell the company as soon as possible. The company Peko, a shoe factory from Tržič, the former parade horse of the Slovenian shoe industry with 110 years of tradition, has been on the verge of survival for quite some time. Over the past years, there have been only a few attempts to rescue this company, which we consider to be an irresponsible force in the DeSUS Group, mainly by the State as owner, because it did not act as a good master. This is not just a finding on this particular case. The fact that the state has treated most of its businesses, which are now only history, we all know, all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The position of workers who have thus lost their jobs and income to support their families is certainly not jealous. Not to mention the loss of quality brands and the resulting chain damage suffered by other successful Slovenian companies, even because of the consumer's lack of confidence in Slovenian products. Since it is within the competence of the National Assembly to give final consent to the sale of a company owned by D. S.U. In the company of Pekko, today we are saving Pekko from the worst fate that a company and employees can face — before bankruptcy. I don't mind bankruptcy, but I'm worried about bankruptcy leaders, or managers, who, as we know, aren't very reliable and bring society into bankruptcy. They're not responsible for this and they're going to save another company. In view of the situation in which Pekko is located, and given that the state is the majority owner, we do not have much room for option as to the decision. Also in the DeSUS Group, we believe that Peck's sale is the best possible solution at this time to keep the company alive. If we do not do so, the Market will be another social point on our country's map. By the way, I'm coming from Market. It is important that the maximum good position of the seller, in this case the State, is forfeited by the sale. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that this is certainly a priority for preserving jobs and maintaining and promoting economic activities on domestic soils. The DeSUS Group has closely followed the Pek sale process and we note that this government has made a great deal of efforts to finally succeed in selling Pek. We believe that the negotiations with the buyer have been tough, and we believe that the results of the negotiations for the country and for the company are satisfactory, so we support the sale decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u24	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Horvat will move the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-workers! First of all, let me point out that the New Slovenia Group will not object to an agreement to sell Pek, a shareholder company. However, today's procedure and today's complications, both on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and at the meeting, at the beginning of the meeting of the National Assembly, put us under some pressure, so that we have to make an important decision in five minutes and literally five minutes before the twelfth. Life would be much easier for us than it is today if much of the current coalition did not oppose the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act last year and a few days ago the adoption of the Investment Classification of the Slovenian State Holding Group. In the document that I quoted, on the third page under order number 80 we see Peko, a shareholder company and a ownership stake of the Republic of Slovenia 66.8%. But this document is now null and void. But we have a problem. It's not so much about the legal person, Pekko, the share society, it's about people. In Novi Slovenija, we have workers and the fate of their families ahead of us. It's about trust. Whether the National Assembly trusts this buyer, who is really the only best, but is not said to be the right one, and that these workers will have a reliable future if this buyer Pekko, a shareholder company, buys. In Croatian and our newspapers, we read that the owner of the company Ciompex, Željka Biloša, who, as I mentioned, is considered the best bidder for the purchase of Pekko factory, was arrested by Croatian police a month ago during an investigation into leaking information from the police. This is indicated by the Croatian Jutarnji list, including HTV. For Biloš, buying Pek is a new business challenge, given that he has never dealt with the production of footwear. This is also stated by a Croatian or Zagrebian officer. In doing so, he points out that Bilosh’s nickname is the Croatian Iron King, who received it because of his business empire based on the wholesale iron trade. The former was also linked to last year's affair of allegedly illegal monitoring of phone calls and short communications. The police investigation at the time pointed to the connections of some public persons, as well as some intelligence agents and police officers with criminals. It is true that Biloš offered 2 million euros for Pekko, a million euro less than the offer of another bidder. It is also true that his Ciompex Pekko is to recapitalise with EUR 4 million, which will give the company the necessary fresh capital. Over the next five years, Ciompex has committed to investing a total of EUR 2 million or EUR 400,000 per year in the development of society. The Croatian company has also committed to retaining 280 employees out of the 380 employees Pekko employs in Slovenia for at least 5 years. For all commitments, Ciompex is expected to provide appropriate guarantees. Sounds good. Do we trust? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u26	Thank you, too. Ms Alenka Pavlič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u27	Pekko was in a very poor financial position. The recapitalisation by the State of EUR 6 million at the beginning of 2012 was carried out to a lesser extent than originally planned. As a result, the restructuring plan prepared by the company’s management was not implemented to the extent planned. On 22 December 2011, the former government imposed on the company the entry of a private investor through a cash recapitalisation which was unsuccessfully sought by the company until mid-2012. Two binding tenders were then received by the Crampex and Blue Rose Trust Fund providers. Both were invited by the Commission to improve. On the basis of the coordination and negotiations with the two tenderers, the Commission has set a deadline for the submission of final binding tenders up to 27. 3. 2013 On the 28th day of the European Parliament 3. In 2013, the Commission adopted a decision on the selection of the most favourable bidder, namely Ciompex, while the Blue Rose Trust Fund considered the offer to be unbiased due to inadequate insurance. The best way to keep Peck alive is to sell. If Pekko does not receive a very quick financial injection in one way or another, the only other option is to bankrupt society. The company needs fresh funds immediately, because Pekko is already insolvent. In doing so, it should be noted that Pekko was able to pay the last salary to the employees of the net amount and that taxes and contributions still have to be paid. The tax administration called on Pekko to settle its obligations by 26. 4. 2013 In addition, the validity of the Crampex offer expires on 30 April. From the point of view of the Republic of Slovenia as the 92.03% owner of Pek, it is necessary to take into account in the sale decision that the direct cost represents the exemption of an additional 280 employees, i.e. the cost of cash compensation for unemployment in the first two years of approximately 2.5 million to 3 million euro net. In addition to direct ones, account must be taken of the potential costs of cancellation of the purchase – EUR 1.85 million – and of potential paid contributions and taxes for 280 employees or penalty payments under the contract of approximately EUR 3 million. All for the first two years. The costs of missing potential investments or their multiplier effect on the local economy, the loss of potential VAT revenues and the cost of social dissatisfaction are not accounted for. Positive Slovenia believes that jobs must be maintained, as without the rescue of companies with the stabilisation of public finances and with the rehabilitation of banks we will not save anything. We regret that a number of companies have failed in Slovenia in recent years. This destroyed the accumulated knowledge, good practices, personnel, trademarks and references. The National Reform Programme, which includes measures to restructure and extend the real sector, also sends out a signal, according to Stepišnikov, that Slovenia wants to preserve jobs in the international and domestic public. We estimate that what the new government has achieved in this area in the first month of operation is a good signal. The owners, banks and the state initialled an agreement on the rescue of Cimos. Similar solutions are being prepared for MLM, the Zagreb SVEA and so on. In view of the fact that we believe that the proposed decision should be adopted as soon as possible in the Group of Positive Slovenia, we will therefore support the proposal for a decision in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u28	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u29	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State with Colleagues, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support the country's withdrawal from the economy, in particular from non-strategic investments, but in a transparent, economical way. In general, there are two key, fundamental objectives in withdrawing the country from the economy or, more simply, privatisation. The first important objective is to follow as much purchase as possible or to want the most revenue in the budget for sale. The second, also an important objective – not a subordinate goal, but a goal at the same level – is to ensure the further development of the company we are selling or withdrawing from. The further development of this company is linked both to jobs, to human capital in these economic operators, and to the development of this company in terms of investment, investment, technological development and the like. Further development of the system is as important as the purchase itself. In this particular case, what does the only buyer who has shown such seriousness offer a binding offer offer offer offer? It offers jobs, offers investments over a certain period of time and also offers a purchase of EUR 2 million. By the way, the purchase of EUR 2 million has to be compared with the value of Pek's real estate. The value of real estate is a good EUR 12 million. Two thirds of these properties are mortgaged and the company also has a lot of debts. If we simplify, the buyer offers a relatively low purchase and offers a relatively favourable undertaking in the industry that we are dealing with in terms of job conservation and further investment. But what does it guarantee that it will do? With nothing but contractual arrangements. There are no bank guarantees. We all know that the contractor of any project financed by the State or the municipality must guarantee, through bank guarantees, good performance, timely performance of works, including for subcontractors' payments and the like. When we talk about investments financed by the state, the bank guarantee is something completely normal, required. However, when we talk about meeting the very important obligations of the buyer after maintaining jobs, after investing in the company, there are no guarantees. It is only our confidence that the buyer will fulfill this, whether we believe him or do not believe him. I am convinced that it is a very important or most important guarantee that the buyer will fulfil this, the credibility of the buyer. If the buyer is credible, if he's trustworthy, then I think every bank guarantee is superfluous. Who's the buyer? What can we monitor from the material and from the media about the buyer? Firstly, it is clear that the company is not from the industry. The company does not deal with footwear industry, manufacturing, nor does it sell. Selling and trading iron. He's not from the industry. He's not a strategic partner. This is the first important conclusion. Another important point is that it does not have the appropriate rating. That's what it says in the paper that's ready for today's session. The third conclusion is that an important owner has problems with criminalists in Croatia and has corruption evidence against him. These are the three pernicious ones that monitor the credibility of this buyer. As we learned on the committee today, it is clear that Pekko has about 100 properties, that these properties are valued at EUR 12.8 or 13 million, that only two thirds of the property is mortgaged, that one third is missing. If we make it very simple, the good EUR 4.5 million of real estate is not mortgaged. These properties form sales capacities, the Pek trading network throughout the former Yugoslavia or the countries of the former common SFRY. An important part of the property refers to the production in Tržič and also to the sales network within Slovenia. There's a risk. Because the buyer is not from the industry, because he does not have the appropriate ratings and because he is obviously being subjected to suspicious transactions, at least after writing Croatian media judges, not Slovenians, there is a risk that he will monetize this property, that all debts will remain, because he does not guarantee with any guarantees that he will pay what he owes, while at the same time earning part of the sale of real estate. That's possible, too. We know that he also has stores in elite locations, because Pekko has tried to have this sales network in the past, and that's right. This business is accompanied by the risks I just mentioned. The sales commission of the Consulting and Management Company has decided to propose to the Government and, consequently, to Parliament an agreement following the launch of the new government, not before all the details of this particular business are known only after the change of government, not before it accidentally seizes someone from the community to throw up some of these findings to the government. Obviously, both the sales commission of the Consulting and Management Company and the Government have decided to accept these risks and risks. Why? Probably because you know what plan B is, what scenario B is like. Scenario B, as we've never heard before, is bankruptcy. You decide or decide on two bad solutions. One bad solution is bankruptcy, [[Incomprehensible]] This is not happening, and another bad solution is a relatively high risk that in a month we will send a bankrupt company even more impoverished, without real estate. Otherwise, I can't imagine the customer's interest in this case. But we can be benevolent, we can believe that this new business challenge of owners will be upgraded with success in an extremely demanding industry. I wish new customers much success, as well as good jobs and regular wages for employees. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we estimate that the risks of this deal are high. We are also aware that scenario B is inconvenient, so we will not oppose this procedure or this conclusion of the procedure. However, we are obliged to draw attention here today to all the dilemmas that accompany such and different procedures, as well as the granting of state aid when we are solving a business in difficulty. Let me remind you that in the days of Pahor's Government, Pekko received state aid in the form of recapitalisation of EUR 6 million, and that we are here today. We note that these 6 million euros were probably intended for some extension of the problem and that today the problem is as big if not bigger than then. I'm saying this because you're very eager to find a way to solve the accumulated problems in a way that you can solve this and that company with state money, with taxpayers' money. I hope that you will save him, and I hope that you will not prolong the agony and thereby increase the hole in the state treasury and, as a result, affect all taxpayers in this country. I think that solving problems is not in this and they are injecting such a different company, but in creating a better business environment in this country. Increasing certain taxes, as you predict, will not improve the business environment in this country, but will make it worse. Therefore, in this case, when, on the basis of the recapitalisation by the state money of the recapitalised enterprise, we are now selling you for change with high risks of further development, I call for you to have a shaky hand and a lot of responsibility in where you will allocate state money in the future and where you will collect this money. I hope not for the deterioration of the business environment in this country. As it is said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not object to the agreement to resell the share, nor will we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Because I can't argue with the predecessor, but whatever you do, it's wrong. I am aware, however, that there is a great deal of risk with today's pressure on the button, but I am aware that if it pushes on the button today, there will be no two days from now that there will definitely be a bankruptcy of Pekko. The extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which we are witnessing today, is an expression of the emergency situation and the serious financial problems faced by Pekko, d.d. The brand Peko has been monitoring, respected, generations of Slovenes and Slovenes since 1903 and thus represents one of the older manufacturing and trading companies in Slovenia. Also outside the borders, especially in the former Yugoslavia region, Pekku has managed to establish a diversified and strong retail network, which is even more important in terms of production support. Even though Peko is synonymous with the production of quality footwear for all generations, this company has also succumbed to the heavy burdens of the financial and economic crisis. Over the years, especially in crisis years, problems have accumulated, and today, unfortunately, Peko is just before he closes his doors. If the company is not sold, 380 workers and workers can be left at the door and Pekko brand extinguished in some way forever. A picture of the terrible social picture and other consequences of the loss of 380 jobs, which is promising to Tržič and the environment, can be seen from similar black practices of Slovenian companies that closed their doors and left hundreds on the road, not to say thousands of people. Since it is a specific production with specific knowledge and with employees who have left a large part of their working age in one factory, it could be a new wave of vulnerable groups looking for new jobs. I come from Radeč, and I know what it means for the people there to close the doors or break down the factories on which they were dependent and dependant families. In doing so, we must not overlook the long-term deterioration of quality brands representing Slovenia and its economy on the inside and on the outside. I hope so, and I'm sure the crisis will end one day. I can't imagine then looking back and saying that because of the inability to make decisions, we let brands like Pekko go to waste. Certain production is likely to be relaunched relatively quickly by certain financial means. My dears, stamps or brands can no longer be built, not in a decade. The purpose of today's session is to get D. S.U. allow the sale of a 25 % stake in the whole package after the review of the timeframe and the content items prepared by the Commission established for the preparation and implementation of Pek's sales process. Social Democrats hope that the conditions, at what cost, with what inputs and with what development strategy, ensure that Pekko goes under the auspices of the owner, who will not exhaust the company, but will offer him a new development path. The sale, which is just outside the door, has matured on the basis of the weighty and common decisions of all owners. This aspect is also not negligible for us Social Democrats, because it would be extremely bad for Pekko to sell in pieces and in a way that the majority owner would not be able to fully implement its development strategy. Therefore, Ciompex undertook to pay a purchase of EUR 2 million, a guarantee for the period 2013-2017 to maintain a minimum of 280 employees, a payment of 2 million recapitalisation at the time of the transfer of ownership and 6 million recapitalisation by 2017. Today we have a decision that needs our consent to sell. With this action, I hope we will turn on the light at the end of the tunnel and allow a new start to production that has been too long disturbed, and give workers and workers the necessary hope, which is shutting down from day to day from the status quo. The Social Democrats will support the government's decision. In the end, I would like to congratulate all workers and workers on their upcoming work holiday in the hope that the work will be restored to their original reputation and hope that there will be more work, because our country was created on the basis of the work of our people and their creativity. Good luck! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u32	Thank you, too. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you again! The Parliamentary Group of the National Sales List will not object to the sale. Our concept is a liberal concept and we are very open to privatisation as quickly as possible, but not at all costs. We therefore believe that, in cases of privatisation, it is necessary to act economically, to withstand the best possible impact on the country when it comes to the sale of shares and to achieve maximum results. We have already identified and asked the committee at the meeting what are the sales guarantees, what are the promises, etc., because it was really fast, at least for some who had not previously participated in this process. In a way, we were a little skeptical whether all these promises, which are written about keeping jobs, about additional investments in the company, will be realized and what guarantees will be made. On the other hand, on the other hand, there is a general problem with this debate when there is always a threat — if not, bankruptcy. I believe the bankruptcy was terrible, but somehow I participated in the process in Kranj, in a large company called Planika, where during the bankruptcy period that lasted about 5 months, the bankruptcy was wiped out. Thousands of 600 people have kept jobs, we haven't stopped for a minute, everything has been well arranged and well organised. This is evidence — few such cases — that bankruptcy is not such a disaster. I had a similar situation at the other end of Slovenia, in Mura, where I tried to make a similar story as in Planika, and then later I learned that bankruptcy legislation had been amended and that the conversion of claims at the time of bankruptcy was not possible. Even now that new bankruptcy legislation is being prepared, I am trying to achieve in every way to simplify bankruptcy legislation, shorten bureaucratic procedures and allow bankruptcy procedures to re-train the company as quickly as possible, preserve healthy cores and not the bare bankruptcy process, sell after bids, etc. The bankruptcy process can also be a reconstruction, it can be the maintenance of the company's healthy core and the preservation of jobs if the legislation is appropriate. I think they'll take the best route. The new legislation should be such that it is very quick to identify the debts of the company and that the owners or those who are in debt will become owners and then organise in their own way what is good in the company and continue the production process without major bureaucratic complications. This would be a good solution, and many of the companies that went bankrupt at that time could work peacefully further. Even companies that are in bankruptcy – I say that with the good will of the courts, bankruptcy managers, as well as others who organise certain processes, it is possible to put a lot of emphasis on new ones. I know that there is still a lot of knowledge in Primor, I know that there is still a lot of knowledge in Radeče paper, that people are available, that they are in the institution, that good will is needed, and that adequate equipment should be obtained from the bankruptcy manager to continue the process of renting, if jobs were to be retained. Legislation now allows rent for only 3 or 6 months and then sales take place in the middle. No one can embark on such a basis on serious organisation of production. For a lot of things we've already lost, it's still time to put it back if it's right. A bankruptcy isn't such a big disaster if it's done properly. The situation in the company we're talking about is really difficult. Much has been invested in the company, and I hope that the hope invested in the new owner will bring what people and employees and the country expect – to keep jobs in order to establish a positive and profitable business for this company, which has not been able to do in recent times. I'd like to point out a few more things that are happening here. We must be aware that we are accomplices — not us sitting here or also — of the situation of losing one of the last companies in the footwear industry. I see it's similar in the textile industry. I have made many calls to amend legislation to help the labour-intensive industries survive and maintain jobs in such a way as to reduce the taxation of work. We have the highest labour tax, directly and indirectly, in the world. There's not much of it anywhere. Analysts and all those who calculate don't want to admit it. Where, for example, 70 % of labour costs are in the overall income structure, the overtaxation of these companies has been devastating, and this is evident through these things. It would also be good for this process to continue in the wood industry and everywhere. We shut down businesses without having to, and we don't know how to listen when we need to. Don't listen the way we do it at this point, like we did the day before yesterday. I have already said that companies are not being rescued ad hoc, quickly, without adequate analysis, without substance. When I arrived at the company, I quickly looked at what was good in the company, what was bad, what productivity, what was the cost needed, what was unnecessary, and quickly came to the core, what made sense, what was not meaningful. The decision she made about Cimos is too soon. We didn't get to know each other enough. We were under pressure to keep our jobs. We know that there are still many such companies, but we are not asking enough why our companies are over-indebted, as the international and European community also notes. Why are companies too indebted? Because they're bad at business. Earlier, a colleague said how many good companies have gone bankrupt in our short history and have failed. I guarantee that no good company has gone bankrupt because bankruptcy is unfortunately the last time, the last goodbye of a company. As a result, the business of our companies is based on times in which we have lived, which we would not have set up, but we must be aware of and acknowledge that in most of our companies where we are engaged in production, there is catastrophically poor productivity, that we cannot compare ourselves with Europe after productivity, that we have too many so-called directors' works in production companies, etc. I've counted all these things very carefully and found out many times. We're not rational. It is very difficult to understand our discussions on State holding, how and how we would operate, have arranged this business, where unfortunately I do not see any serious will and serious commitment to achieve, through professionalism and through that right economically cost-effective, agricultural logic, in the domestic sense, to achieve greater performance. Therefore, usually such ad hoc and quick solutions are not good, they are not fair to others. I would say that in all cases, our task is to speed up ensuring different conditions of management so that our companies are increasingly profitable, more competitive. Therefore, on this occasion, I would say once again that let us give the best in the plans that we have, delete the tax hikes, delete the various contributions that we would still collect from companies, and instead, in some industries, reduce the contributions from wages, to work-intensive contributions, to some. Let's solve businesses systematically, in the same way, under the same conditions. Those who are capable will swim, but those who are unable to live in better conditions will not be helped or drowned. We will not oppose this proposal. It's a force solution, quick. The only thing we can hope for is for this to not happen. I think that the situation may be even worse than if things were to settle with some bankruptcy, under some legislation that is being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u34	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. He'll be the first to get the word, Mr. Only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I'll take this decision today. I'm not stalling with this debate. I just want to point out one aspect of this story. The crisis, due to the collapse of many companies, can cause us to lose entire sectors in Slovenia. Suddenly, we will lose many industries – textile industry, wood industry, furniture industry, leather industry, shoe industry, etc. In construction, for example, we will soon be unable to build more demanding tunnels. If we were to start building a highway cross today, Slovenian construction companies would not even be able to compete anymore. These are very serious questions. In the field of mining, geology we have only coal mines. The metal mines are gone, and this knowledge is lost to us. If we went to bankruptcy, say, Alpina, if we went to bankruptcy in Pekko, we would soon have no more people who could make shoes, let alone those who could fix shoes. Pecko has a 110-year tradition. More than 5,000 people were employed in Pek 30 years ago. Today around 900 jobs are tied to Pekko, almost 400 in Pek and the rest a few hundred other places after Slovenia. It is therefore good that Pekko is preserved in this way as proposed today. I hope that the shoe tradition and the shoe industry will continue. If you would also enter the river Buy Slovenian, buy quality. And if the Slovenians were buying more products from the Pekko factory, there probably wouldn't be any trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u36	Thank you, too. The following gets the word, Mr Franz Pukšič, and the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! As the president of our party has already said, we will not oppose this, but we will not. Now I'll tell you why not. If I took a magnetogram of my colleague Bojan Starman, I'd sign under him and say, "Here you go, that's what I want to tell you." But you'd probably find that we made plagiarism on this side. But if I listen to my other fellow Member, Sam Bevk, I can say that what he was talking about is populism. I'll tell you why. He was talking about the fall, the fall of construction and some other industries. I agree with Sam, that's true. However, he must only admit, kneel down in the middle of the hall and say that these are his great sins because he was in the coalition of economists, the current better president of the country, such as Prime Minister Borut Pahor, when you spent 9 billion euros, each year he owed a budget of 2 billion euros. In Europe, because of your work at the time and the current exchange, it is likely to remain close to €1 billion 2007-2013. But you have done something not only to be critical — you have made 60,000 new unemployed. This is the difference between a fellow Member and another Member. It looks like one belongs to the orthodox opposition and the other to the largest government party. Neither is true. But it is true that these are very different concepts, and the minister who sits in this coalition should hear this page as well. I told one of my coalition colleagues if he was listening to Starman. "Yes, he's right," he says. I said, "Yes, dear God, but you're doing something completely different!" You are working completely differently, and the whole week was completely different, when everything that was hard to burn in one year — holding, Cimos, now Pekko, etc. Every day we'll sit behind a company and save it. But, O.K., let's move on. Ask yourself, which one of you, if you had the money, would go into investment like that. How come he didn't sign up for this market, some German, Austria, Switzerland. And these must be stuck by entrepreneurs! These must be people! But someone with the company Crampex, which ownership and which owner had already been talked about by my predecessor, colleague Horvath. You know, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, perhaps I would have little faith in you if it didn't say that the Republic of Slovenia would get 100% of the equity stake, 2 million to invest, recapitalise by 2 million, by 2017 for 6 million, but if it said that someone would take this company and make something out of it – I don't believe it, as my colleague Starman did, I don't, I don't believe – from the country immediately gets 2 million, that the state would also pay the unpaid taxes and that the state would invest in keeping the remaining jobs. In all likelihood, the intentions are far more speculative than correct. The committee said that Pek’s assets amounted to about 12 million, about 8 million and several other mortgages. That means you become the owner and maybe you have some speculative intentions. I don't think he's going to make iron with these machines if it's someone who does a lot of iron work, but these are computer, high-tech processes that cut through, etc. It's likely that the property that's in this company today, and it's on the verge of bankruptcy, will go somewhere else. That's the problem. Like my colleague Starman said, bankruptcy for the workers. For workers, bankruptcy must not be seen at all. What can happen? It only happens that at the entrance the board is changed, ownership changes, the owner changes – and nothing else. He said he did something himself, so now after this time, month and half, and before more than one year of preparation to replace the former coalition, it would be better if we prepared and came up with a change of legislation, both by amending bankruptcy legislation and by amending legislation on taxation. I think about a thousand euros will cost the employer about €800 for a worker in Germany and about €600 for a worker in Slovenia. I read this in a newspaper. This means the burden of Slovenian entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, you're not going to save any company. By doing so, you are merely seemingly prolonging something, as you have been seemingly prolonging certain companies for 3 years by borrowing the country. Moreover, you have extended the survival and further depletion of state money companies to the tycoon. Neither on the committee nor today in the presentation, Mr Minister, did you tell us where and how they completed those 6 million euros given by the former, transitional, failed Pahor's government, and I think that even in December, when it did not have a mandate anymore, the elections were already over. This money was credited to a notary transit account. What happened to that?Oh, my God! What's with the six million?Oh, my God! Minister, it is true that if not all these conditions are met, then the country will be able to buy it back for one euro. In the meantime, it is likely that there will be more assets of the company sold than the purchase will be made. One more thing, then the state won't buy it back. Not for the euro, not for the euro. If it buys, the European Commission will then demand the return of the state aid granted to the company, which is likely to be too much for the country. It's very fair. I'll tell you how much you can say. My colleague Starman, who learns about this for practical reasons because he has been working on it, has said much more in these few minutes than you have on the committee and all the coalition Members and Members who are going to talk about it today. At times, you may think that there is simply no solution for us, but you are concerned about our children and grandchildren. Maybe last night after the show, I took a little break from the Views of Slovenia. Even when you look at the newspaper Finance, you often see that some just pour you pure wine. Mr Slak poured some pure wine last night, and those who wasted Slovenian fairy tales then somehow withdrew into themselves and became very quiet and poor. That's what you're going to do when these immature businesses that are going to happen ad hoc. But what's the responsibility? There is no responsibility except for the loss of two-thirds or more of the political party in the next elections, or even to disappear from the political scene, the Slovenian political space. But then new ad hocs are born, ready for elections, things get blurry again, and that's how things go. I think it would be better, as my colleague Starman said, that the risk, as you said, if it didn't happen to go bankrupt, is probably not the worst option, but, as he said, there are also real estate and real estate in this bankruptcy. There should be significantly more responsibility here on the part of the owner, and this is through D. S.U. and the rest of the work anyway in most countries. The way you picked it up is appropriate for the next six months, maybe three quarters of a year. A few more companies, and then you'll say you saved Cimos, Pekko, for at least a short time. You won't be interested in any further, just as you weren't interested in, and you don't care how the loans came back. We're still going to spend a little more than we're going to produce. In sound logic, farming logic, that's not what it is, and it's not in economic policy. This can only be in an inflatable system that does not have a long-term exit. I have heard Mr Luksic say that it is necessary to raise the capital tax, that – what you are now saying and preparing – VAT should be raised, etc. You will drive everything into an even greater abyss. Perhaps you could conclude that today in some individual companies – which is not right – it would be right to do so by holding together with you, not to forget, together with you – to put out the fire on one side, and to pour gasoline on fire on the other side, on the whole Slovenian society, which is the worst and hardest, so perhaps the only solution is to get others to come and tell us that this is not how the economy works. The economy needs to be given conditions, and what we have started to create, what Europe has accepted, what you say when you come to Europe, when you come home, and strong, from a position of power, not an argument position, you do the opposite.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u38	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Jani Jenko, get ready for Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you again! In Slovenia, there is one bunch of companies that are on the verge of survival – whether they are already insolvent or just before they become insolvent. Most of these companies are state-owned, and this shows us that the country is a very bad host. At the same time, I wonder where the hell all the good managers who do, have diplomas, great doctorates, but when they have to, the state can't hire them, use them or don't want to. I don't know. That's what I'm wondering. I agree with Mr Starman that bankruptcy is also possible. We're back with the bankruptcy managers. Mr. Starman has a function in the National Assembly, and I doubt he'd go rescue Pekko as a bankruptcy manager. However, there are many bankruptcy managers who come to rescue the company, pay a good salary, and are paid as the first or second in a row. It was very incomprehensible, very strange to me, as we were already considering the subject of economic activity, that there were first-hand bankruptcy managers and not workers, so I am not for bankruptcy. These bankruptcy managers then move to another management function in another company where the story repeats. One of the insolvent companies is Peko. The restructuring plan for 2012 failed because the state failed to fulfil its commitment and recapitalised and found a strategic partner who would invest around 3 million in the company. Pekko received only 6 million of the planned 12 million from the country, which was by no means sufficient. This paid off the creditors’ banks for about half of the total because the restructuring plan also stated that the banks were being paid first and then invested in the technological development of the company. Again one of the stupid daily demands of paying or developing a society. First, the state and the banks are paid, and the companies are invested in what remains, if anything remains, most of the time nothing. I also wonder whether this financial injection would be a completely meaningful or final solution, whether the story would repeat itself in a year or two. Given the leadership we have in state companies, as I have already mentioned, these companies are bottomless, and the company would be in a situation similar to that of several months ago. In a specific case, we have a solution for Pekko either in bankruptcy or in sale to a private buyer, and we hope that the company will continue to develop. There are no ideal buyers, at least not for insolvency companies and companies just before the collapse. We've seen this, and we have to expect it, let's not make illusions. Only two buyers applied for the sale of Peck. One fell away very quickly, while the other, Croempex, the Croatian company, offered guarantees that are not ideal, as nothing is ideal in these times, but according to experts, the Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, are still somehow sufficient. It may also go bankrupt if we sell it in two years or earlier, but it will not go tomorrow or within two months, as would be the case if we did not sell it. In doing so, we must assume responsibility as owners of society. I must say, I'm a little surprised at the opposition's decision. When we had a meeting of the two committees two months ago, no one said that the sale was against, and I put my hand almost in the fire so that if the opposition were now the previous position, there would not be much of these concerns. I was in that position or coalition, and it was very ad hoc. So these thoughts of yours don't drink water, I'll say. I have concerns about guarantees myself, I agree, but we have to take risks in life. If this sale does not develop as we predict or hope, I will be the first to strike because I live in Tržič, believe me. But I'll take my chances. It's no different. Here, despite all negative opinions, I must commend the Ministry of the Economy or the employees that, at the last minute, they have managed to obtain guarantees to prevent the complete flood of the Pekko factory and the shoe industry in general. With the same problem he is stabbing himself, for example, the Alpina factory, another parade horse of Slovenian shoemaking. Time's running out, everything's done just before labor. Yesterday I didn't know if it was going to be today or not. April 30th is the last day when the contract is still binding on the sole buyer. We really can't balance here anymore – yes, no, yes, no. At least that's what I think. The buyer is willing to invest a total of 6 million in Pekko. First 2 million directly and then gradually another 4 million. According to an assessment by the authorised value assessor, Pekko would recover approximately 8 million over the next 5 years by selling the company’s assets. This is the book value of real estate and everything in Pek. The real estate market value is around 13 million. Of this, 8 million is already mortgaged. That means there's only one thing left for him. On the other hand, we must not forget the direct cost of dismissal of 280 employees, which is the cost of unemployment compensation only in the first two years worth about 3 million. This will be the cost of the state and the local community. We have to be aware of that, too. The only factory in Marketplace is Pekko, which employs as much as it employs. Everything else went into francs years ago, BPT, Pekko, a few thousand people. It's the only hope that something will survive and develop. There are still some independent entrepreneurs, and most of them are employed. There's a lot of unemployed people, but some of them go to other places. The market is a small town with 16,000 inhabitants and every job, every job means a lot to us. The fact is also that the country, at least the previous government, and I think that the current government, too, does not exist and will not define Peko as a strategically important society. She's either doomed to sell or fail. In Slovenia, we are all united to sell businesses. Again, there'll probably be no perfect buyers. Slovenia is obviously not a very attractive destination for Northerners. But I wonder, given the discussions here, how are we going to make any sales of the company, whether it's still good standing or just before the collapse? No buyer will be perfect, really not. I don't know if we're so sealing up or if there's anything else we can do to hold on to as a fence drunk, and we think a stranger is just gonna take advantage of us. Maybe not. I don't know. Let's hope not. Experience from elsewhere in the world shows that this is not always the case. True, we have very little confidence in buyers from our former common country. I also attribute this to a lot of tycoons that don't happen to them at home. I think we've lost a good degree of confidence in the honesty of any employer. On the one hand, we would sell the companies. On the other hand, we have no confidence. We're afraid of everything and everyone. We've been afraid of our own shadow lately. Maybe now's the time to trust someone. I'll definitely do it, take our risk. This is what I expect from the opposition. If not, I will take it that way that some people never want to take any responsibility or always want to impose it on someone else. At the time, the opposition was on the board to sell Pekko. [[advertising from the hall]] You're not against sales, exactly, you're just always going to be like, "We won't be here, it's a risk." Look, there's also Mr. Saiovic, current CEO on the balcony. If you have any questions, it might be wise to clarify something to you, since there were very many indications that you were not familiar with it. True, it may not have been right of the Peck sales commission to give us too little insight into the course of sales. We got everything on the table, or not everything, more verbally, just at the meeting. There's really little time to think about it, but I think we need to jump in the water and swim in this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u40	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Mrs Renata Brunskole, prepare yourself for the Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, Secretary of State to the President of the Government, Mr State Secretary to the Ministry, professional colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Any decision that a person chooses not to take shall be deemed to agree with the decision taken by those who make the decision. Those who give a silent landing, which will not be against or against, agree with the result to be voted on. It is clear from the debate and the presentation that today there will be no doubt that there will be no consensus going through, but perhaps there is a question in the public debate about who owns Pek. We know that 66.80 % is directly owned by the Republic of Slovenia, 25.23 % indirectly by D. S.U., Advisory and Management Society. This means that the owner is 92.03 % of the Republic of Slovenia, indirectly and directly. In doing so, we can take into account the fact that if the business of Pek is terminated and the proceedings are brought to a standstill, the Republic of Slovenia would lose. The fact that the current cases relate to the fate and resolution of Peck over the years is that the validity of the offer of Ciompex expires on 30 April 2013. There is not much time and our decision will have to be made today. The case is drawn from the time before the appointment of this government, and a recapitalisation was carried out in early 2012. Someone said in the debate, "It's been recapitalized." It wasn't highlighted. It is easy to argue, but if the recapitalisation was EUR 6 million and was carried out to a lesser extent than originally planned – amounting to EUR 12 million plus EUR 3 million from the private investor – then we know that the matter could not be resolved. As a result, the restructuring plan drawn up by the company's management did not take place on the planned scale and in such a course that we do not need to discuss the rescue and fate of Pek today. 22. 12. In 2011, the government ordered the company to enter a private investor whose company had unsuccessfully searched until the middle of last year. There is some risk in every business, and if there is no agreement today, we will not be able to talk about maintaining 280 jobs, we will not be able to talk about investing in the development of the company. The price is EUR 2 million. There was also doubt as to how, since the value of real estates is EUR 12.5 million – of which over 100 sales places, EUR 8.4 million in Slovenia, EUR 2.6 million in Croatia, and EUR 1.5 million in Serbia – only two thirds are mortgaged, EUR 8 million. However, in this way, one would count on 4 million euros to remain. Far from knowing that the restructuring plan was partially recapitalised, the matter was not resolved and fully remedied. This means that the sale of trade does not leave resources for the matter to be fully resolved. We have made 280 unemployed people, we need at least EUR 3 million for this issue, and we have a company in bankruptcy. What have we done with the region? Upper Gorenjska, Tržič, other local communities have even more social distress, and so many people are unemployed. What else happens? The trademark of Peko, the Slovenian brand, as I discussed yesterday about the textile industry and the company Beti – this can happen with the company Peko. There are also some thoughts on transparency, intransparency, economy. We also spoke on the Committee about the past withdrawals of the country from the economy, which we cannot fully claim to have been the most economical, that they were the most transparent. Now things are being identified and discovered, but a lot of people don't like to talk about it. Let's take a decision, keep 280 jobs, give it a chance, let's put an end to this uncertainty. On the other hand, a step-by-step, yesterday, Cimos, today Pekko, is also the remaining companies tomorrow, but it is a wish that as few such decisions are needed to make the economic and investment cycle turn to the direction that the country does not need to seek and provide funds for money, but through the use of cohesion funds, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, through the promotion of competitiveness, innovation, development, will help all areas in the Republic of Slovenia. We are in favour of maintaining 280 jobs in Pek, not bankruptcy, and I will vote on it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u42	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Branku Grims, get ready, Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! When it comes to 280 people, 280 families, things should be considered very well. Things are extremely sensitive at the time. Some of these warnings were given quite audaciously at the beginning of the session, but I'm afraid we should have prepared these things well earlier. This session, if I may recall, was convened literally in the middle of the day. I wonder if it would be the opposite of how many comments there would be on such a reference. The materials, if I'm very diplomatic, are unusual. If I just read a few flowers. In order to make it difficult to pay all or part of the contractual penalties on the possible non-compliance with the contractual obligations, if not impossible. This is very interestingly written. Further, in a detailed review through the law firm, it has been shown that the majority of companies currently competing for this purchase on behalf of the buyer, at the time of the preparation of the report, quote, "does not have such unburdened immovable property to ensure payment of all liabilities". From that point of view, I understand something. Previously, one very unusual debate was one of the coalition's Members, which sounded almost as if she was sorry because no one objected to this purchase. Why would I do that? In the SDS, we always argue that if a private person does his job as an entrepreneur, he is certainly a better owner than the state. Not only does Slovenia teach it, far from it – the whole world has such experience. This makes private capital increasingly effective, and therefore the sale of the company is not bad in itself, as jobs remain where they are, everything remains as it is – if the buyer is capable of what he promises. In this case, you admit that no one is sure. That's why I remind you that you yourself said that when it comes to 280 people, 280 families should be significantly more careful. There is no guarantee, at least this is not visible – even buying back for one euro does not mean – that any of the bad scenarios, the possibility of speculative buying, which you do not exclude in any way. Therefore, it must be said that no one, at least the SDS, opposes the sale of this company, to try to find the right buyer, to try to keep jobs in order to help the company. None of us object to this, so surely not. What we warn you about is that we should have prepared these things a lot better before, much more carefully, and that it is the responsibility for such materials, for all the open questions that are before us today and which you are also asking yourself, only your own.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u44	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Brank Fick. Next is Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u45	Nice hello to you all! The fact is, Peck's agony has been going on for years. Why, you know who you've been here for a long time and you've let this happen and you haven't found a solution. As early as December 2011, the Government ordered the entry of a private investor. Partners in the previous government have had the opportunity to help you do this, because it is only actions that matter, not polynomization with vast knowledge from macro and microeconomics that do not produce results. You did not do that, and we came into the situation five before the 12th when it was necessary to decide either to bankruptcy with all the consequences or to alienate the state share and thus hope for further business. Although the sale of the country's share does not provide a 100 % guarantee of long-term success, it is still less painful for both employees and the country. Some until yesterday in the government, today in the opposition, you have already been on the committee and are now making a lot of concerns about the eligibility of this act. For a year and a half, you had the chance to find a better solution, and you didn't. You don't want to take responsibility today and take it to others. It's your steady way of working. Apparently, the opposition is yours. I will support the proposal in agreement because it is less painful between poor solutions. It's not about trust. It's about hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u46	Thank you, too. I give my word to Mr. Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Since I come from Gorenjski, given that we are talking about a company from Gorenjski, I do not care what will happen to this company, so I was somewhat shocked by the quick reference of the meeting when it comes to such an important matter, to the important resolution of the company, as in this case the marketing company Pekko. This is a company that carries the tradition of the shoe industry, and this is why there is even more concern for such a company. The fact is that this is not only a matter of leadership, that it is not only the administration's fault, that we know that they are in shoemaking, textile, construction, unfortunately also the wood industry of companies in crisis, that we will have to take a different approach to the rescue of these companies in a systematic way. As far as the situation in Pek is concerned, I was present on my parent's working body, where we were able to familiarise ourselves with the problem in this company, where the president of the board presented us with the problems they face there and also what possible solutions could be for this company. In my opinion on this decision today, I miss something – I miss the opinion of the local community. The fact is that the local community also plays an important role in the development of businesses in the area. I am interested in the opinion of the local community on the sale of Peko. We have already said in our position that in the Slovenian People's Party we do not oppose sales, we have problems simply by not trusting the most buyer who would buy this equity. The local community is the one that should be defined sooner or later. In this Chamber, if it had been mentioned earlier that the president of the administration, Mr Saiovic, was listening to us on the balcony, he would expect someone else – the mayor who has the same last name as the director of the administration. Maybe just one more thing. Previously, it was said that good companies, those companies that have been restructured on time, those companies that have been working on development, those companies that have started building on value added products in time – we have such enterprises, thank God, even in Gorenjska. Not all of these problems have arisen in certain sectors. The mistakes of companies or the problems we have today with some companies have already occurred. Preliminary administrations may have also been guilty of delaying restructuring because they missed the train that unfortunately took them. As we have already said, we will not oppose this decision. My personal opinion is that the biggest mistake by the National Assembly or by policy was probably made in 2011 by unhappily recapitalisation. He blew up that money. Maybe then it would be a much better time to sell. At that time, I am sure that it would be possible for Pekko to obtain a buyer who would be more entrusted to him than we trust a buyer who is now interested in purchasing a share of the property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u48	Thank you, too. Ms Marija Plevčak has the floor, prepares Mrs Aleksandra Osterman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. It will not be long before I depreciate, but we know that the problem of the economy in Slovenia has been lingering for quite some time, that we have gone deep into the economic, political and moral crisis. The country has been owned by Pek for a long time and unfortunately we do not have any information on whether, at the time of a bad business, control has ever been carried out, because we know that the state financed Pekko, but we do not have the results, what and what these funds were intended for. Those who worked in the economy know exactly that each expenditure needs to be documented accurately and consistently. It is true that today's presentation and the interested customer are running a bit. Its ratings are poor or not good, they may be average. The question is what is the better way out – bankruptcy or sale of the company. I am not yet quite clear, although I see in the sale the possibility of extending the work of these workers for a certain period of time. Maybe it'll only be six months, maybe this year or two. The fact that our Peck's taker is out of line is of particular concern to me. The other thing I'm worried about is that our factory, Pekko, is going to have the same fate as it does at Fructal. We know where Fructal came from. It was a reputable company, and the people who took care of Fructala's rematerials, if I may say so, for the raw materials they produced, would obviously lose their jobs. In this direction, somehow my concerns are gathering in my head, and it will probably be a very difficult decision, although I think we must at least partially trust, take a step forward and leave this management to someone. What it'll be like, but I'm still skeptical. I will certainly support the proposal and take responsibility. I think it is necessary for others to think about it and take on part of the responsibility and mismanagement that has taken place in the previous and present government and perhaps in the previous ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u50	Ms Aleksandra Osterman has the floor, prepare for Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u51	I believe that Peko must be sold as a matter of urgency. We are at a time when we do not have enough time to discuss whether this is right or wrong. Days 30. The 4th bid is due. By selling, we achieve two – we retain 280 jobs and give the company the opportunity to establish market competitiveness and survive on the market. The next step is still possible – bankruptcy and immediate loss of 280 jobs. It is not just about letting 280 people go in terms of costs, it is also about these people from the point of view of employees as people. The buyer with the appropriate guarantees guarantees that Pekko will establish a level of business within a five-year period which will be able to compete on the market. During a five-year period, the buyer is not supposed to forgive workers and not sell property. That's why I'm going to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u52	Thank you, too. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we have more or less all the same idea and the same thought in our head – jobs must be preserved at all costs. These are the moments in Peck I'm questioning 280. We differ on how these jobs need to be saved. On the contrary, from a colleague who has just discussed and many others, I do not agree that adequate guarantees are provided to save jobs. This is exactly the problem — there are no guarantees. The company that will buy the stake in Pek is expected to do so in 5 years and is expected to maintain jobs. It's a conditioner. On the other hand, the fact that the equity shares in the form of real estate, which we have heard for 12 million euros, while some are mortgaged, without a conditioner, should immediately move on to the new owner. The new owner will be free to use these properties. He'll also be able to use it to sell them. When he sells them, he may realize that he will not be able to implement the debt or the restructuring he has promised. At that time, the state of Slovenia will be able to redeem these debts for one euro. We're gonna run out of real estate and big debts. Our point is that the guarantees given by the new buyer are not sufficient to support this sale. If you've been listening to us lately, we've been defending the country's withdrawal from corporate property. Even in Pek, only in a different way, in a more transparent and more reliable way than we are doing today. The material we discussed on the committee was given to the committee three minutes before the committee started. There have been more open questions than we have discussed. We had to ask some questions several times to get some answers. They were offering themselves. We asked why there is no bank guarantee, but any firm that does business fairly can get a bank guarantee. The answer to why there's no bank guarantee is we didn't get it. She's not here. The banks obviously don't trust this company. In addition to the absence of adequate guarantees, it is very disturbing that the company buying this share is not from the activity where it enters. Does he have in his long-term plans the development of leather and shoemaking activities? If it does not, then the jobs that are in the Market today will not be maintained in the long term because the new owner will not need them. He may need dealers in those stores he owns, he may be expanding this in his activities, but he will definitely not need experts sitting in the Market today. This is an additional reason to be very concerned. The third thing I don't like absolutely is saying that the deadline is 30. 4. when there is an urgent need to do something, otherwise you will take responsibility for the company to go bankrupt and that these people will be on the road. That's blackmail. Where were the materials before, where were the information before, where were the answers before? Today at an extraordinary meeting, on the Committee with material 3 minutes before, just before the present, let us decide something, and knock on our conscience if you will have on your conscience all the workers who, if you do not support this decision, will lose their jobs. This isn't right and this isn't the way. There will be another new company in line tomorrow, which will also need help – many more of them, we have already discussed – and we will face the same reality again. If you do not confirm this, you will be responsible for the loss of so much and so many jobs. That's incorrect. This is not how shares are sold. We have heard on the committee that this is a policy, that these are political decisions. No, excuse me, colleagues, decisions on the sale of property, the sale of shares in companies are not or should not be a political decision. These are economic decisions, and some basic legalitys and principles must be adhered to here. Anyone who sells should check very thoroughly what kind of property they sell to the buyer. There are so many chalets in this sale that the question is how long have we kept these jobs? There is a chance that we have kept them forever, but there is a very high and higher probability that we have kept them for a very short time and that we have spent quite a few assets on this account that the country could otherwise keep to itself. As my colleagues have already said in the debates – Mag. Vizjak presented the position of the Group of Members – we will not, in principle, oppose this decision, nor will I personally, but we will not absolutely support it. I hope that the concerns expressed here will be taken very seriously in the next such ad hoc actions and that you will discuss the sale of state property in a different way. Maybe it would be a different way of classification, a pre-prepared list. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] You'll be able to tell, Comrade Möderndorfer. This would mean that these sales would be more transparent, ready to know what we are deciding. As has been said many times before, if the classification were accepted, we would not have this extraordinary session today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u54	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, get ready, Mr. Jerko Chehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u55	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Einstein wrote: "The only source of knowledge is experience." I'll tell mine you can follow. When I rented loans for Interles, according to the bank's valuation report, the company was worth EUR 4 million. Now, at this point on my knees I am asking the buyer and we are waiting only for the consent of the New Maribor Credit Bank to buy this property for a million 100. As my owner, I'm gonna lose my property. That's not the main problem. I would be very pleased if the new owner for a million 100, for about 25% of the value, bought this property and continued production. This is our former supplier from Germany. For every owner, if he loses his property, as the state of Slovenia will now, it is painful. But we have to ask ourselves, why did I lose? Because of the poor management and management of society. Because of the wrong choices. That's a fact. I have already asked the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues what they would think of me if I began to explain that I was a good manager of this property. You'd think I was crazy. I haven't had enough experience, I haven't been careful enough, etc. What property manager do you think the state of Slovenia, which in many companies is the majority owner? He's extremely weak. Do you know the difference between the state of Slovenia and Ivan Vogrin? That Ivan Vogrin is a natural person and he admits it, and that the state of Slovenia is an imaginary concept that never admits any of its mistakes, is the main source of problems and does not fulfil the guarantees it has issued. We are now speaking again to those who have been unjustifiably taken from them to be paid next year in May. What country are we? You know, it's better if we go step by step and lose our property if there's the slightest chance of keeping our jobs. Everything else is as worthless as it is if it's not in the creation function. What do you think the halls that are empty mean? We are talking about some great value — nothing is worth it. Production halls, machines are only worth creating. My machines and halls are now worth very little or nothing because they don't create. When Peck's production stops, it won't be worth anything. As a country at this time, we are preparing such a tax framework that companies entering Slovenia as foreign strategic owners will not escape from Slovenia in a few years' time. We need a different tax framework in order to attract foreign investors and maintain domestic ones. The question is still fundamental: What will we do and what will we live on? I'm afraid not from the government. We will live on what we will produce and what we will sell on European and global markets. Today, this is a key issue. Every attempt, every rescue of each individual company is commendable and let's work this way. I can't agree that when we get to a point, we say, "We're for sale, but..." There's no time for buts anymore. You know why? That's my experience. If I hadn't said something in 2009, but I would have done something, maybe that wouldn't have happened to me. Entrepreneurship is a risk. What we are about to accept today is risky, but less risky than doing nothing. We're gonna have to live off something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u56	Thank you, too. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor, and Mrs Sonja Ramšak is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u57	Madam Vice President, thank you for the first time I received your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For 22 years, this country has been throwing money at Pekko. During this time, I do not know how many political options, governments, and directors and managers of this company have been replaced. This is not to say that the last administration is to blame for the sale of this company. On the contrary, I think there's a lot of metal in this pit without the bottom, and there's a lot going on. Today we're going to decide two things, possibly a third, which I don't think is an option. On 21 February, we had a joint meeting of committees, for finance and for the economy. In this session, we have come to realize socially, even then as the opposition, that there is something to be done with Peck. Those who read the report that we received at the National Assembly on 9 April by D. S.U., we were able to read – and if everyone read it, today would probably be a little less discussion – the following. Let me quote: "The state of Pek, d. d. The D.A.'s case. S.U. due to the payment of EUR 4 million 724 000 in real estate in the republics of the former Yugoslavia, which Pekko did not take into account in the opening balance sheet when owning the property and therefore went to ownership and management of D on the basis of the law. S.U., Pekko, d.d., and without the legal basis of this property, he sold or otherwise had with them what D was for. S.U. injured, Pekko, d.d. and enriched in the amount for which the action is filed. The defendant fully disputed the claim, but it did not substantiate it in any way. 22. 11. 2010 criminal charges were brought against the company director and former director for suspected crime, abuse of position or confidence in economic activities. Day 4. 2. In 2011, the first preparatory role was submitted to the Kranj District Court under number I Pg 828/2010. Days 26. 8. 2011 was between Peck and D. S.U. the signed out-of-court settlement agreement governing mutual rights and obligations, obligation D. S.U., d.o.o., to withdraw the action after entering an increase in Pekko’s core capital into the court/business register. On the basis of an out-of-court settlement, D. S.U. The appeal was withdrawn, and the court is 23rd. 12. 2011 issued a decision terminating the procedure. Proposal by the Court for reimbursement of two-thirds of the fees......" - and so on – "...was returned." Then on the 98th page of that same report, where D. S.U. reports on other activities, writes: "In accordance with this out-of-court settlement contract, we have obtained a report on the activities related to the recovery of the remaining 13 immovable property in Serbia and BiH, for which he must conduct recovery procedures. According to Pek, the procedures for returning these persons to use and possession are implemented, with the status of five properties in Serbia – Belgrade III, Zemun, Nis, Šabac and Kragujevac – and one property in BiH, Doboj, already regulated. He's got a D from this address. S.U. a new claim has been established to Pek under Article 6. The supplement has not yet been signed......" - and so on. Then you know the story. In November 2012, it was among the existing owners of Peko, d.d. – Republic of Slovenia, D. S.U., SKB, Gorenjska banka — Contract concluded on a joint appearance in the sale of shares of Peko, d.d. A 6-member sales committee was formed to manage the sales process, in which the representatives of the AUKN were appointed, now the Soda, D. S.U., SKB and Gorenjska Banka and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Day 23. 11. An invitation to tender for the purchase of all 10 000 851 shares of Peko was issued, of which 2 million 737 were owned by D. S.U. The sales process takes place in several stages. Following the adoption of the treatment of non-binding tenders, as we have already heard today, the Commission has received two tenderers. She chose two who invited them to make a binding offer and allowed them to carry out a careful inspection of the company. It was all done. Today, much has already been said by the current opposition. The first thing I'd like to say is that you were saying that if we had a classification, it would be resolved. Under number 67, the unaccepted classification is also written by Peko as a portfolio investment. This means that the previous coalition has decided to sell this investment. It was a decision you then offered to the committees and the National Assembly. So today, I find it a little strange that you are surprised that the government that rules — Wednesday was a month, which the government is making decisions on the basis of your suggestions. These were your suggestions and your people on the boards. I am not saying that some concerns are not justified. We all have some concerns, but we do not expect – I hope that at least in the National Assembly there are no such naive people – that for a company that has virtually no rating, we will get a first-class guarantee from the bank. What bank will give a bank guarantee to buy such a company? I don't know any of those. But if you know, you could probably help my predecessor, my colleague Vogrin, get rid of these mysteries, and be no longer the subject of a hearing. There's no bank like that. In the first place, the government rejected this offer for the purchase of Pek, and the current administration has somehow accepted why it is taking this procedure, why now that we have a buyer, the government does not agree to the sale or submit a proposal to the National Assembly. It is true that I, too, am not in favour of having such a hand-to-hand approach to meetings, but unfortunately, because of some deadlines, not because of the blackmail that has been made in these offers, today we have somehow decided and called this extraordinary meeting that we must decide on. Not because of blackmail, but because of common sense, and once again, I confirm the words of my predecessor, it's easy to speak, but it's much harder to do things. We have heard all sorts of things today, from matters that have nothing to do – I could also say, "What have you done at the shooting of God, all those who want to boast that you are already the fourth or fifth term in Parliament, that you have allowed Pekko to come into this situation?" This means that you have abandoned some careful actions that you should have done in the past. Now you're asking us to do this in one month because you didn't do it in 15 years. I find it really irresponsible that we are discussing this. No one in the world today can guarantee that some economic society will live another hundred years, perhaps not five years. Nobody knows that. Every business event, every investment in the business is some kind of risk. But at this point, I still think it's better that we get at least two million back, and that these 280 workers continue to work, even if it's for one, two years, than that we don't do anything and we say, "Let's leave this thing to some inertia, let's go bankrupt, let's go to the institution." Then we will have more in the cashier countries of these workers and the demands of banks, to a lesser extent, because the main owner of this company, 92%, is, as you know, the state. All those who wonder why it took so long to invest in Pekko, why criminal matters were happening inside of it, to sell properties that were not owned by this company, but were owned by the state of Slovenia, should also get an answer in justice, I agree. But that's not true. I suggest that we do not deal with every company we sell if we say that we are selling state shares in companies other than those of strategic importance to the state of Slovenia. The so-called portfolio investments will be sold as soon as possible. However, I agree that good investment will not be sold first. But if there is a buyer for a worse investment – in this case, Pekko this is certainly – I think it would be much better to say today that we are helping this company in such a way that by the end of the year each Member and Member will buy at least two pairs of shoes, and we will do more than this whole discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u58	Thank you, too. Now Mrs Sonja Ramšak has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u59	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Let me also express some concerns about the sale of Pek Crampex. As you know, our government, the government of Janez Janša, has already said at the time of taking charge that it wants to ensure effective management of the state's assets. What we are listening to today is that we do not take responsibility because we oppose the sale of Pek – I must say that they do not. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always been in favour of policy withdrawing from the economy, withdrawing in a transparent, economic and economic manner, and selling off state shares to those whom we believe and know that this property will be handled in the light of a good master. Today, when we consider Pek's sale and when we talk about whether the National Assembly should agree to sell Pek to Ciompex, we unfortunately cannot pass over the fact that it is a company whose owner is suspected of bribery and leaking information from the police, that he is being investigated by an office that, like us, is being investigated by the Anti-Corruption Commission of all persons who are suspected of being corrupt. In this case, when we talk about the best bidder, it is Crampex, but the owner of this company is for me a person who does not give me assurance that these companies will be treated economically and in the light of a good master and that what is promised – jobs – will be preserved. Today we are talking about 280 jobs, but as far as I know the information, including from the material itself and from the media reference, it is 380 jobs. What about those 100 jobs we don't talk about in this contract? These 100 jobs will be abolished with their left hand, people will be placed at the employment office. What's worse is that I didn't find any data anywhere on what happens to 41 workers who are employed in a disability company. What's going to happen to them? Did we make any commitments to Crampex? What's going to happen to those employees? I don't think Mr. Bilosh will keep them busy. You say that we do not accept responsibility — just as we express concern for the treatment of property, we also show our responsibility. Responsibility to taxpayers, responsibility to employees and responsibility to all those who have given us a voice to decide today whether to give consent to sell Peck or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u60	Thank you, too. The word now has Mr. Franz Bogovich, prepare Dr. Ljubica Jelusič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u61	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Hello again! I came to Ljubljana today to discuss the National Reform Programme at 10 a.m. at the joint meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and the Committee on the Economy. At first, we were a little disappointed because there were no ministers at this meeting. Later, two ministers joined us, a key finance minister, and he was not present. After a bad hour of this debate, we have learned that at 11:30, we will stop the meeting, make a committee to discuss the sale of Pek. By the way, we also learned that today at 2 p.m. today is this extraordinary meeting that is taking place today. We have been dealing with very interesting points for a week also in the context of the National Assembly itself. We talked about how we have prolonged or paralysed, in some way, the Slovenian State Holding Act, which after 20 years, not after the mandate of the previous government, this government or one earlier, has finally tried to manage state property in one place, as much as it still is. Then we talked and talked all day about a law we talked to about how we were going to save Cimos. Today we are talking about Pek and what will happen in the shadow of all these individual solutions is that we must also give some very clear answers in early May about our reform measures, which will regulate our country, so that the conditions of management will be such that companies can operate without having to talk about them, but that they will be able to carry out their basic mission on a competitive market – taking care of the employees as well as for the growth of the company. I am afraid that what has come to us after the differences found in our system, that we are not answering the question with these meetings and the discussions that are under way this week, and I fear that it will be very difficult for us to convince anyone that we will make conditions for good governance with the interventionism we are currently carrying out. Today, in that part of the session, when we talked about the National Reform Programme, we also heard that the bad bank would work in such a way that there would also be per partes, from business to business, slowly turning the matter into a bad bank. My colleagues and colleagues, I have very bad feelings about this information, with this knowledge and everything that has been spoken here and in the public this week. I have a feeling that people want the right way – I myself know that the company needs to be saved from one to one. I've hired 20 people, I know what it means to make a salary for people, I know what it means to pay suppliers, to have an orderly relationship with banks. But what we do is not going in the right direction. Today we are talking in Parliament about the sale of Peck. We speak because we have not regulated transparent governance with state property 20 years ago. Last year, in the second half of the year, systematic procedures were under way to prevent a state-owned holding company from operating in one place with our assets. We're talking about a company that owns over 90% of its property. This means that in the past a number of such State interventions, recapitalisations and state aids have been converted into ownership shares. All that's left is state property, and the company's out of business and it's out of business. In the country, we are in very bad shape, and if we have listened to Mr Starman before, things are coming under pressure from a time-consuming situation. That's exactly what's happening to us today. I heard there was a final conversation last night. Some were given certain guarantees, guarantees. No one has convinced us that these guarantees are such that they give a good feeling to those who participated there. Those who worked there said that there was no talk that anyone could give any bank guarantee, but he vouched for his property. The questions raised were very serious and responsible. In no debate did I feel that anyone would want to impose or play some opposition attitude, but it was a simple question whether we could believe that people would have jobs in this way, or whether it would not only be in a series of one-purchase companies where someone calculated that it was possible to play Slovenian legal order and through some liquidation, including by selling off property, to get more than to invest in it. I will not share my judgment on this buyer, I do not know enough about him, but the doubts raised and the way the debate was going on – I think that it left everyone involved very much doubt as to whether we believe in what we are doing. I have to say that when I talk about it now, it reminds me of something similar to what we have done in the area of timber, forestry. At the end of the day, we can no longer ski in Slovenia, they drive us to Austria and Italy. I have a feeling that we can no longer determine for any company whether it is the power through bankruptcy proceedings or in a similar way to get it back on track or to find out that a healthy core is being launched or that part of it is being sold out. Once again, on my behalf, I do not object to this sale. Not because I don't want to participate because I'm an opposition Member, but the procedure that's been going on and is going on in the National Assembly today, where it's not the right place to do it, because it should be elsewhere, has exposed the misery of managing state property, and I think we all have to think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u62	Thank you. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word, prepare Mrs. Alenka Pavlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your words and very much welcome, Madam Vice President, for the first time in this role! Nicely greeted by colleagues and colleagues! I note that today we are meeting of a special kind, which some believe would not be necessary to take place because this decision is supposed to be taken elsewhere. The decision is really difficult and it is also very risky, but I think it is right that the decision to sell one of the important Slovenian companies is right here. It is right for this company, which would celebrate its 110th anniversary this year, to devote at least 5 hours of our attention, and if we add up to an hour, two committee discussions this afternoon, it seems right to say that we can really devote at least so many hours to one of our companies with such history. If we passed on this responsibility, which we are talking about today, to accept the classification, we would not have enough material and time for the company under number 67 to know so much about what will happen to the company that will be sold. It is also true that what was included in the classification or contained in that document was adopted in November 2012, when the decision of all owners, the State, D, was taken. S.U., Gorenjska banka and the SKB to start the sale process. Today we are not talking about the start of the sale process, but we are talking about the end of the sale process. That is why we do not have two bad options before us today. We have one option, and this one is the one with the good and the bad. Two options, two poor options were available in 2011 and also in 2012. I was a member of the Pahor's Government, of which some of you said that at the end of 2011 she had made a bad decision. I must tell you that we have talked about Pek many times, for a long time, and in the end we have taken a decision, whatever it was, in December 2011 on the question of how to recapitalise the AUKN Peko proposal with 6 million funds to expect a private investor to enter Beijing in the coming months. The problem may have been that we did not ask Pek more clearly at the time, that he would then start a transparent sale of properties, which we now know are still of some value, and perhaps by selling those properties he could then prolong the company's life for some time. The discussion on the company in 2011 was exactly the same as it is today. We also talked about the need to recapitalise the company in order to maintain jobs. At the same time, we also talked about the need to maintain a trade mark and that we have some knowledge in Gorenjska, knowledge from one particular profession, making shoes that will slowly die if Pekko fails. Today we can read one particular information in the material, namely that the average age of the employee is 50 years. I think that in 2011 we gave Pek or Pek’s leadership an impossible task. With this average age of employees, it is difficult to make major restructurings, introduce new technological processes and find new world markets. However, things need to be looked at correctly, and it is still very fair to know that this sale can also prolong life, prolong jobs for some people who will probably wait until 2017 in their company, where they have given their work life, and make peace, so that no very large professional restructuring of this company, including with the help of a new buyer, will occur. It is a fact, and let me recall once again the opportunities that were in 2011 – there were two, bankruptcy or recapitalisation – and the opportunities that we have today. After two years, it turns out that there are no good buyers for the company in so much trouble as Pekko was then and is today. They are buyers of questionable quality and questionable creditworthiness, but the thing we need to talk about is why we don't have better customers, why we don't have better management potential in these companies, why we're afraid of bankruptcy procedures, why we're talking about fear of bad bankruptcy managers. We're at one and the same thing all the time, with human capital, which we trust to run our businesses and manage state and other assets. There are problems in this human capital – there is no knowledge. Maybe our employees in Pek have enough knowledge to make shoes by some old methods, but our bankruptcy managers, our management layer, our management elite, don't have enough knowledge to solve companies in crisis situations. What should be done slowly is a new layer, a new generation of new managers, if we are to make a breakthrough both in the economy and in the development of our society. 380 jobs remained out of the 5,000 jobs we had in Pek 30 years ago. Today we have come so far as to be satisfied with the preservation of 280 jobs. I will vote in favour of keeping these 280 for at least a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u64	Thank you, too. Ms Alenka Pavlič has the floor to prepare for Mrs Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u65	I didn't want to discuss it, because I thought that we had made everything clear on the committee or poured pure wine, and the debate of the opposition Member, Mrs Romane Tomc, has prepared me to think that we still have some things to explain. She had a whole bunch of suggestions about how she would save the company, and now I don't know why they didn't save him. They had one year at their disposal, and we could have used it all. The debate of Members goes in this direction, that they do not have the material, that everything is too fast, that they cannot prepare themselves. All the materials were available to ruling parties for one year when they had a government. They had scissors and canvas as far as the economy was concerned. What did the Minister of Economics do? Unfortunately, I only remember him wanting 35 million jobs to be opened within 3 years. I don't know if they will or won't. That's what we said yesterday when we talked about Cimos, when we decided to give about 35 million aid for 3,000 jobs. All I can think of is the functioning of the Minister of Economic Affairs of the previous term, that there was a whole bunch of aid for Pomurje, and no one knows where they went. We even read in the media that this money is gone. You have concerns about our solution, but unfortunately, the concerns will not save jobs, unfortunately not. We could have saved Pekko by now. I tell you that I will vote in favour of this decision because Pekko has no time, because Positive Slovenia is always saying that it wants to save jobs and will save them. I'm proposing a counter on how many jobs we're going to save. After all, your government has introduced a counter to how many personnel exchanges it has made in important jobs. I will vote in favour because Gorenska is an eighth-placed region. She was first in her class years ago. Where did we come from? Without money, without development, only because all the time governments, two or three years ago, had no ministers, no assistance, no resources for development. Upper Gorenjska, where Tržič belongs, has no new jobs. That's why I think it's important that we try to solve this. I think these people deserve at least an attempt to save jobs, regardless of the risk. Hope dies last.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u66	Thank you. You want procedural? Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to warn everyone in this place. I believe, Madam Vice-President, that you are chairing this meeting, that you cannot have all the knowledge that has happened with regard to the law on development assistance to Pomurje, but colleague Pavlič has somehow read to the previous Minister of Mags. The crane that he was giving money and that this money even disappeared somewhere. Do you know where he went? You'll get an answer from people who are suspected of this money shortage. Their names are known, including political affiliation, but they're not from the right, you know. There are some SD secretaries, and he's not my relative, even though it's my name. So, dear colleague, a little more caution next time. I'm very sensitive when I was just talking so casually about Pomour, you know. I've protested for the last time, and I will if this goes on. However, I apologize for slightly violating the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u68	That's right. The rules of procedure were broken. What's your procedural proposal? He's not here. We continue the debate. This is Mrs. Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I am also opposed to such a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which may lead to the fact that after each discussion someone will come forward and tell them what he did not like in this debate, without order, without having a reason for the replica, etc. This debate, given that I have only been in Parliament for one year, like some of our party's colleagues, is sometimes quite surprising. Most discussers say that it is for the sale of Pek, but they discuss very critically and state what is wrong. Some who have been in this Parliament for 20 years, mostly in the government or at least in the constructive opposition, are teaching us what we, who are one month in the government – now I am talking about Positive Slovenia – have ruled up to one month ago and some Members have already been in another party. I would really like to ask and remind you once again that this government is only working for a month. She's trying to do exactly what she's always promised to do. He's trying to start an economy. He's trying to save the economy. When one of the Members wonders whether we will really save one company at a time – yes, one by one we will save. Just like the minister said he was going to save one job at a time, and then we didn't see any of this. If I look at the letter of Director Peck, which we are talking about today, it is already 21. 1. So desperately turned to the minister of the past. Throughout the letter explaining even Pek's agony, he says: "I appeal to you, respectable, to do everything possible to ensure that the sale process of the company is carried out as soon as possible. Only fast sales can ensure the continuation of the business of Pek, the preservation of the brand and jobs." That's exactly what this government did the moment it came to the government. She listened to the calls of desperate people in Pek, their leadership, and continued what the former government had done in some way. In this situation, however politically unthinkable we may be, we cannot afford to make a salad of mortals every time and do something completely different from what the previous government has done. This government has appointed a commission to deal with the sale of Peck. This committee shall be held on 28. 3. adopted a decision on the selection of the most favourable bidder, Ciompex. 28. 3. on the basis of a procedure conducted during the previous government, based on the work of the Commission appointed by the previous Government. What upsets me is that I am confident that such a proposal would come before the Members who are sitting here to accept it without much thought and without being examined in detail. What happened because of the change of government is that our representative is 2. 4. - Twenty-eight. 3. On Thursday, a decision was taken by the Commission – on Tuesday, a few days after the government’s performance, he went to a meeting with representatives of Pek. What did he find out? He found that, although more or less agreed, the buyer was known to be very poor guarantees. What you are all warning us today, our representative has determined on Day 2. 4. From 2. To this day, night and day spent time trying to improve. During a certain period of time at that time — I spoke to him — he was very much in doubt as to whether this sale could be supported. Now that, on the basis of his efforts and the efforts of the new coalition, this guarantee has improved slightly, those to whom I am convinced that this sale would undoubtedly be supported are telling us what is wrong and what questions are being asked. How did you not get the answers? Of course, you did not, if last afternoon the last talks were held, if the representatives of our government had demanded more guarantees and received more. One must be worth mentioning, that's a buy option. In five years – this is an annex to the contract – the government can buy back the entire stake for one euro. We wanted to get a bank guarantee, but it couldn't be obtained, just like you couldn't get it, and yet you chose this buyer. I don't know who. We usually talk in crowds when we talk about governments and previous governments. It's not you, Romana Tomc, probably not, I hope. The question is very large and we have also asked many questions, but the fact is what we all find today – whether this customer is chosen on the basis of a formal procedure, as it must be, which has an offer connected to 30. 4, which is exactly three days from now, or bankruptcy. I agree with Mr Visiak that these two are rather poor choices in view of these not large enough guarantees, but in view of this I find extremely incorrect from certain Members that for this buyer whom we want to save one of our factories and the people working there and the whole area, they state on the House's speaker what the newspaper in Croatia says about him. What today's newspapers say is a special story. These are the reasons why people do not decide to buy businesses and why Slovenia has such a bad reputation as it does. Because the procedures are too complicated because they are not transparent because some basic rules of correctness are not respected in the business, etc. Now what we have, this buyer, and what is, is some risky situation, as in entrepreneurship and the economy, is probably always and often at risk, and is particularly at risk in such a situation. Instead of quickly closing this procedure with confidence that we have all made a good decision together and that Pekko will survive, we are digging further into this wound, we are throwing doubts and discrediting the new buyer. I think our side has played this game extremely correctly, that the Secretary of State has made an extremely large contribution. On this occasion, I thank him. I know it's been very difficult. Until yesterday evening, he was getting additional assurances, and I think that what we can do today is to confirm the sale and that, as the speaker said before me, we hope it was a good decision with a good end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u70	Thank you, too. Mrs. Romana Tomc asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u71	I think we should replicate this time. No, Mrs Masha Kociper, I had nothing to do with selling and deciding to sell Peck. But I was wondering — and you have already given your answer — who is the person who makes the decision and who has this magic wand to decide whether the guarantees are right or wrong? We've obviously learned that this is the Secretary of State. [[advertising from the hall]] You just thanked him, that's how I understood. He will explain whether the person who negotiated and provided such very good guarantees is Mr Gaspar Gaspar Mišič. I wanted to replicate because you misunderstood me when I explained the guarantees. I was talking about guarantees not being good. If you think – I'm still not – that it is a good guarantee that the state has ensured the possibility that after 5 years of operation of this company will buy back assets for one euro, then you are deeply wrong. That's not a good guarantee. That's a very poor guarantee. I ask you what the state will buy if this property is no longer available, because there is a high probability that this property will no longer be. Please take into account that there are some economic legalitys and that it is known which guarantees are first-class and which are those which are highly questionable and do not provide for reimbursement of the funds invested.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u72	Mrs. Masha Kociper, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u73	I will not abuse the procedural one, as some have done before, but I would like to make a procedural suggestion that Members in replicas do not dispute with Members who know that they cannot answer if they want to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Tomc directly addressed a question to me, and she knows that unfortunately I do not have this kind of replica to the replica and I cannot answer it. My procedural proposal is that we Members respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u74	You didn't have a replica, you took a replica. I would like to ask that we proceed with the debate. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. I must say that the debate is quite interesting and that in some ways it is increasingly apparent that our concerns are justified. If we go just after some speakers who have said a few things before me, also as regards the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. You are talking about new Members, but within your group there are quite a few former Members from Zares, LDS, and some from the SD, so it is difficult to avoid all the things that have been discussed and adopted in the past in this Parliament. But that's not bad, you have some experience in your own kind. This could be a welcome, let's take advantage of it. As for the last debate and how it's sold and who's selling it, I really hope that the government doesn't do it in the first person, as you mentioned here, but that it does matter through the commission that it's D. The S.U., the Court, AUKN and the institutions which are competent and empowered to do so, but not to do so by the Secretary of State. I was most disturbed by the fact that today's meeting called for the government's crisis resolution and adoption programme on the Joint Committee on the Economy and Finance to read, inter alia, on the web portals, that we will still be deciding on Pek today. This was previously on the media's web portals, as we have received a call for an emergency meeting of the Finance Board, which still surprises me a little. I have not been used to this in this National Assembly, but I am not such an old Member, but I am only sitting on a third term. Even when a meeting of the Pek Finance Committee had already been announced, there was still no material available on the National Assembly portal and there was still no reference. That's not something to ignore. Yesterday, in the event and the response at 15.50, we listened to Mr Gaspar Gaspar Gasic, who said – this was at 15.50 – that coordination was taking place. In each coordination, an appropriate legal opinion should also be obtained. And in a few hours, it's been a meeting. As I know the procedures, if someone refers to a legal opinion – the legal opinion is not formed in half a minute, in half an hour, in one more day difficult. But let's say in one day. So I expected that this meeting with some suitable material would be ready for Monday, as these things were announced. When I listened to this in Events and Reflections yesterday, I said that it would probably be Monday, because a legal opinion needed to be provided, as the Secretary of State had predicted, and I was satisfied with it. Then at the meeting nothing tells me, the president tells you that in half an hour we are adjourning a meeting of the Joint Committees aimed at solving the problem of the country as a whole, and announces the urgent meeting of the Finance Committee on the rescue of Peck. This hasn't bothered me yet, because we talked about Peck on the Committee on the Economy and we agreed, both opposition and coalition, that we should go to the sale and look for a suitable buyer. This was a consensus and a decision was taken in this direction. There was no dilemma here between the opposition and the position. However, those involved — the local community, the banks, the Court, Kad, representatives — also took part in that committee and made clear their views. We didn't get any opinions at this meeting. At that time, it was said that the matter would be sold to be realized in agreement or at the landing of a local community that was most interested in preserving jobs. Today on this committee, when I asked if this position existed, I did not get an answer. That's what I'm still interested in, and I've been asking myself. The position of the local community about this buyer is not exactly the one you want to display. The local community also strongly doubts that long-term jobs will be maintained, and I think at least half a year. That's why we had a little bit of a dilemma about what to do. In no case do we object to the sale of property, but when we get to the table the material we have to read in five minutes, and when we read from the beginning, everything is fine, but when we get to certain paragraphs where you write yourself that you doubt that this will pay off, that things will come true as they were written — what do you expect Members to do to go smoothly? These are your papers. These aren't our documents. If you wanted to do this in a different way, you should keep it quiet in the papers and the matter would be resolved. But this shows why it would be wiser on Wednesday to confirm the classification. In this case, the National Assembly would decide on all potential sales and would not define each later. This only gives solace to all state funds, to all bodies which need to carry out later assessments as to whether sales are appropriate or inappropriate. They return the whole matter to the decision-making process of Members, where it appears clear, as if it is political pressure and is no longer economic in the first place. All those who are preparing and should decide whether any sale is appropriate, at which point and how, they re-examine responsibility to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly should decide on the sale. This is a fine excuse for their actions. I really don't know why you're trying to give us a hint that we're against this ad hoc sale. We did not, but the material that was attached and everything we know about this matter and what is read in the media, however you turn it, gives us some caution in that we have not solved anything if the matter is sold within a month, and these jobs will not be available, because the buyer will find that the pre-purchase contracts have already sold things in advance, those who are free of charge, thereby earning his purchase, and the program will not be fulfilled. You write in the document, the board says there are no guarantees, and you say there are guarantees. The document says that everyone has found that these guarantees, which have now been given, are nothing. I'm surprised Mrs. Kociper, who's a lawyer to say that. The document clearly states that all these guarantees that have been given so far are mild - tempered thirsty. If they do, they will, if they don't, they won't. When this is gone, Pek's property in Slovenian ownership will be no more, but will be in Croatia. At that time, the procedure in the middle of the Market will be about properties that will be owned by a company that has not met the conditions and is in some process. Then we'll be wondering who decided to do it. Which is a free burden, a mortgage, will be sold in the middle, and this will probably make the buyer a profit. This is how you read the document you put on the table of Members. Unfortunately, that's what this document says. Repurchase insurance doesn't solve anything. My colleagues already said that. If in three months, when the matter is concluded, we get everything for one euro back, we still have claims and obligations and employees in this miserable Pek, which we will either save or save. That's not a solution. If you think it's good and it's right to make a decision, you'll decide, but given that you're preparing the material that sends us in doubt, whether it's true what you're saying, and there's something else written in the document, and someone's looking for an alibi to make a move, they're going to make excuses, because the National Assembly has confirmed what you're angry with us now. This is your responsibility, and I think we will abstain in this case, but in principle, as you know, we are not against certain sales shares. I will say again, the classification has been so good that this can be done transparently, and the responsibility for specific cases must always be taken over by those who are in charge. Here again and again responsibility is returned to the National Assembly, which is an alibi for all procedures and in the end no one is responsible for anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr Jože Velikonja has the floor, Mr Jožef Jerovšek is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! When presenting the situation and business problems of Peko at the February joint meeting of the Economic and Financial Committees, I could only agree with all those who stressed the necessity of the country's decision as the majority owner on the rescue of the company, namely jobs, trade marks with its tradition and quality and state property. In doing so, I did not forget to ask why the country, as the owner of the company's rescue in difficulty, had not gone down until then, because the company had been rolling steeply down for years. In answer to the question, it could only be a projection of the company from the ownership and management level. The majority owner was engaged in savings and self-sustainment, while the majority state-owned companies were sentenced to decline in the economic and financial environment, which did not allow for good business results or healthy companies. I therefore support the decision of the new government on the urgency of immediate rescue of companies that are the only generator of the revenue part of the budget in the country. It should therefore act in accordance with the guidelines of government policies. Substantiality in decisions and advice and assistance should not be felt. In a specific case, the solution of Pek represents the possibility for the local environment to take advantage of the relaunching of the factory as opportunities for the development and restructuring of activities, and the awareness that in the future, without investment in development and knowledge, it will be impossible to maintain its piece of cake on the market. I will definitely support the sale decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u78	Thank you, too. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the word, prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, as we seal the fate of the famous Slovenian brand with a great tradition, Pekka, I feel kind of anxious at heart. Not because I would object to the sale of companies and companies — this is something normal in the business world. But I have some anxiety because, even when I'm reading it today, it triggers certain associations, including associations related to my experiences in the economy. I must deeply agree with my colleague Jelusic that in Slovenia we have a problem in human capital, in knowledge, but not so much in knowledge. I think Slovenian managers, and even engineers, have a lot of knowledge. The problem is that many, unfortunately too many, managers during this 20-year period did not have elementary honesty. This mistrust must somehow move on, and these are experiences. In 17 years of experience in this House, I have experienced many things. Masha Kociper used to look at me when she said that we had almost 20 years of experience, mostly in the government. I've had six years of government experience since I was 17 years old. She must have thought of Mr. Weber, who was as long as he was, most of the time, in government parties, but she was looking at me. Today, April 26th, is an unfortunate day in Slovenian history. On this day, on April 26, 1941, Hitler shouted, "Make this land German again." Maybe I'm sensitive because my father was already in German prison that day and he was listening to a grunt in Maribor in prison. I'm not saying it's the same times today, but it's holding me back, or we're working one step at a time when our assets are in foreign hands. I have nothing against honest owners and honest buyers, but I read that the commission has decided on the one who offered less. My former company, in which I made the product that is still being produced today, Silky of Kidrichev, also went on sale in 1994, because the main managers – later it turned out that the tycoons – said it was absolutely necessary to sell it to a foreigner. I stopped wild property once before. Then, in 1994, they found a circuit across England, but they convinced the Development Fund that it was necessary to sell the one offering less, not the one offering 2 million more, and the then development fund agreed. And then I realized and discovered that it was again an attempt at wild property. They'd give the English 20%, and the other would get their hands on it, etc. I must say that this is my former company — I was taken out of the factory — sold to the Kobayagi of Hungary, and now I hear that it is in the right hands of those who wanted to get to it three times before. Now they're confusing it and rounding it up. In many Slovenian companies, that is exactly what I am afraid of. The same thing happened to Elan. We've already put this in Croatian hands. I wonder why he doesn't buy, say, a brilliant manager like the Secretary of State, who has reached 25 million assets in 10 years. Why doesn't he take a chance and throw away two million dollars and buy Pekko? Is such a sale a shortcut so that things will go differently? That's what we have to ask ourselves, especially since the guarantee is so miserable. I am critical and concerned that the then commission, in which the bankers and some others were on board, decides for the poorer buyer and without guarantees. He's probably a worse buyer. I don't know if they've really decided on an optimal buyer. Here we see a number of traps that will. I fully agree, the guarantees are so disastrously poor that the euro that will have to be given to the company in five years will be a shame if that happens. I'm sure if human capital were fair enough in those years, we wouldn't be in this situation. That's enough knowledge. Greed was too much. Sadly, some have been protected all the time, even under all the governments. I'm sorry this has happened. I must say that because of these experiences, when I know that I have fought so sincerely for my company, which today is among 50 Slovenian companies with the best rating – without me it would not have been without me if I had not made that product – but it was wildly dominated in a large way and with many attempts. In 1994, I was in the Drnovškova government without the power to follow a fair path. I prevented it twice, but today it's in the pockets and hands of those who wanted it that way. Because of this experience, when companies somehow pass into the hands and pockets of people with the same characteristics, let them be in Slovenia or in Croatia – I must say that I am afraid they have the same chromosomes. I think these people smell because there's always the same result in the end. That is why I will remain here until the end and I will vote against it, because I respect Slovenian workers and I fear that these 280 jobs are not protected, and I will not prevent them. My experience is bad, and I must say that's my decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor, Mr Srečko Meh is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. In view of the above, we could return to the beginning, to what we always find — that the country is mismanagement of its assets. Colleagues from some of the parliamentary groups accuse us, Members, who have already been here for several mandates – and I have not sat in any of the supervisory councils, nor have I decided on any such matters as the institutions that are in charge of this country. But it's always very current when people are being recruited into control councils. She's always pretty crowded in front of the door. However, when there is a need for responsibility, no one is to blame, there is always responsibility and no fault of wrong decisions. Since the country had mismanaged, we did not agree to the establishment of the AUKN, so at the time when we had the opportunity to propose anything else, we proposed a Slovenian state holding company to combine investment management. Now this is happening at several ends – they don't know about each other, they might say – we have the AUKN, we have the Court, Kad, the results of how they operate and how they work with state assets, but they are pretty bad. If I look at the reports prepared by the Pek Supervisory Board. There are six gentlemen in the Supervisory Board, two of whom were appointed in 2009, the other two in 2010, during the Pahor government, when we know that the leaders of the AUKN were its constituents, mainly the SD. We've talked about this a lot, so I wouldn't say it again. The annual report shows that they were working under the AUKN guidelines. Even today those people are there. The AUKN has probably been giving wrong directions, which we are already talking about since the establishment of the AUKN 4 years ago or as far back as it has been since then. If I go back to the material we got. Colleague Kociper said that our government, our commission was preparing a review, and that they were just finishing the case on April 2nd, etc. The material you gave us says that during the course of the procedure, the rating of Crompex and other weddings, which pointed to the average state of those companies in the light of the general economic situation, was verified. We're talking about the period 2011. If they were already average in 2011, they're probably already below average, but you don't write anything about it, but then you write: "At the time of preparation of the report, he doesn't have..." – this company – "...with such unladen immovable property that it can ensure payment of all liabilities". You write this down in your material. In addition, you write: "2. 4. when the issue of insurance was raised when the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the representatives of the Court of Justice, D. S.U. ...... etc. Remember one famous meeting that we've heard about over and over again in the prime minister, when it's up to the companies that are written, the Court, the D. S.U. etc., not the Secretary of State, who is a direct politician. But it's obviously not a problem anymore, but it was a few years ago. 2. 4. At this meeting, the tenderer was found or invited to submit additional collateral in the form of a bank guarantee, a real estate flag, which it was not prepared to offer below. So either I give it or I give it nothing, that's all I give and that's it. The following is company D. S.U. sent material to the Ministry of Finance to obtain the consent of the National Assembly to this sale, where it also gave the material to the Court, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting 18. 4. The government of Alenka Bratušek has not decided to transfer the material to the National Assembly. Either she had too much to do with her staff appointments or she estimated that she wasn't mature. We have now received this from something, as colleague Kociper said, which is still not relevant to me if I read in the newspaper that the gentleman who would like to buy Pekko is in a criminal investigation into corruption. We hear about corruption all the time. People have to give up because of corruption, and we will sell Pekko to this gentleman and pretend to be doing very well, and it's no big deal if we get 1.85 million euros from him – and we'll give him 12 million real estates for that. You can't do that. There are no suitable guarantees, unless the coalition knows something we don't know, what you may not have told us. It's not the best decision for me. Therefore, it is also likely that the decision to sell has not yet been taken. If they're bad bidders, bad buyers, we probably don't have to decide to push the company down to the end. Therefore, such a decision has not been proposed before when colleague Kociper said that the Commission had already done so during the time of our government. Once again, we don't have a problem selling. We estimate that the country has to withdraw from business, so it was also in the classification that was prepared, Pekko on the list of companies that we will sell, but sell to a good buyer, not to a buyer that we already almost know that it can be quite problematic. About what I started with those supervisors earlier. What these gentlemen have been doing all this time – remember that the AUKN proposed a strategy that was not adopted by the Pahor government at the time and that is why the matter is being dragged. We could probably have it on the table two years ago, and we might have reacted differently. Did we give at the end of 2011 6 million free? Is this going to make any difference? For now, it seems that it doesn't. It was either too small or it was the wrong decision. We should probably avoid making wrong decisions. Only when some of you said that Crampex would guarantee jobs. He will guarantee what he will buy — what he will guarantee with Peck. Remember, some bought shares and then guaranteed purchases with those shares. There's been a lot of cow deals like this and they haven't worked out. I cannot therefore support this proposal, but I will not vote against it. Make up your own mind. If we just move Pek's agony for six months or one year, we probably didn't do anything if we lost our assets, and we didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr Srečko Meh, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor. Mr. Jože Tanko can also prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u83	Interestingly, by selling Peck with the consent of the National Assembly, we will move the agony for a few months, but if we sell it without the consent of the National Assembly, by accepting the classification, everything would be fine. That's an interesting thought. To say that we give 12 million properties for 2 million is to deceive the Slovenian public because that is not true. But, ladies and gentlemen, the procedure is good. 21. 2. In 2013, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy unanimously confirmed and approved that the proposed solution to Peck was being resolved by sale. Since then, what has changed in the heads of the then chairman of the committee and of all members? On that committee, we unanimously, ladies and gentlemen, adopted the proposal for a sale proposed on the Committee. Let me remind you, there was also the mayor of the municipality on the committee, who supported everything that we then unanimously accepted on the committee. But it's interesting, ladies and gentlemen, something. It's not really about selling, it's not about what we think about it at all, because if we really thought about it, we would be sitting in the National Assembly and listening, and so many Members and Members of Parliament said and left. In any case, I think so, and today is a really important day, because on the eve of the day OF, I am sure, we will take political responsibility in order to save the Slovenian economic society. This will be our political responsibility, our responsibility in this national assembly. The economic responsibility lies with those who have proposed this proposal – the committee, the management company, the Slovenian government, and all those who have proposed it. But our job is to take political responsibility. That's why we're here. If I asked today: If we accepted the classification, would such a sale be transparent? Then would everything be all right? – then we could say that we have done everything necessary to protect the interest of the Slovenian state. Don't get carried away, ladies and gentlemen. Today we're asking the right questions. We're afraid that what we don't expect will happen. We are concerned about what is justifiable, but more transparent, sales than this one here, that we are speaking today in the National Assembly, probably cannot be – or consent if I say so as it is right. That's why all we're talking about right now is classification, what we're talking about about 120 companies and 12 billion assets, and then we're going to accept classification, and someone is going to sell transparently so that everything will be okay then – that's seduction, ladies and gentlemen. Let me tell you something else. The suspicion of corruption – much has been said that this buyer is under suspicion of corruption in an investigation. Do you remember how many important men in this country are suspected of corruption in an investigation? Do You Recall? Did anyone get in the way? Was that wrong when we talked about all this? Even the president of the former government is the same man, and that didn't bother anyone. Today we're talking about this and, once again, it's only right that we're scared. I am pleased to have the opportunity to accept responsibility, and I will accept this responsibility upright, here, in this national assembly. I'm telling you, I'm going to vote consciously to give our consent to the sale. I know that something negative can also happen, but I trust that we have made a good decision or decision for the good of society and for the good of workers and workers. I know I didn't have another option. Once again, if acceptance of the classification is a transparent procedure, it is only right that we have not accepted the classification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u84	Thank you, too. Mr Zvonko Lah now has the word, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, behind him Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I was on the board by accident, too, because I switched colleagues, even though I'm not an expert on these matters. New and new facts were revealed in the debate, and those who were probably convinced earlier that this was very well supported were becoming somewhat uncertain. I also realized that this buyer probably isn't the right one. If this buyer were to come from this sector to want the technology Pekko has or the brand to continue to upgrade, he would see some profit here with this cartridge, then I would absolutely be delighted to confirm this sale. Thus, the buyer, even though the negotiators requested additional guarantees, did not provide them. We don't know if he couldn't provide them or won't provide them, and since he's going to recapitalise them with two million dollars and with two million purchases, he's not going to cover the free estates that aren't under mortgages that are about 4 million 700 thousand, and that when the buyer becomes owner, sells and gets to sell these properties that are free, more than he's going to pay for the purchase and recapitalisation, it seems to me a little suspicious. We all know that companies like Pekko and similar have been building workers from this company decades ago, denying themselves that they were giving jobs and a lot of other things that the company was growing. The company Pekko, which owns about 100 properties, is also likely to have such a chain of shops in Croatia and Serbia. The company is expected to have property of 2.6 million in Croatia and 1.9 million in Serbia. It is clear from this that this company can sell real estate that are free to receive all the deposits back, but it has not provided any guarantee that this company will not go bankrupt in half a year or one year and that it has any greater obligations – even more, with an annex this company buys back for one euro. With this he also buys all the burdens. He can buy it, he probably won't. These workers are no longer a burden for the country, because the state no longer owns this company to be responsible for these workers, but owns some foreign company that bought it before, say, one year or six months ago. These workers will go to the Employment Service and will be taken care of by the State. I wonder whether it would not be better if, if this company went bankrupt, it tried to find healthy cores within this company and to maintain those healthy cores and jobs, perhaps half as many workers as now employed, and that these jobs remained. Because it can happen that in a few years there will be no more employees. You have a majority in this House, and if you confirm this sale, you will also take responsibility for this business. If Mr Mišič is responsible for making this company a good success, it has evolved – all due respect. I'm the first one to commend this kind of business, but what we got from the arguments doesn't convince me. It is more concerned that the state as owner will do a bear a favor to someone and that this buyer is one of the speculators who will benefit from this, now state property. Therefore, I will not support this sale, nor will I oppose it, because there may be some options that remain so that this sale can also be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u86	Thank you, too. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, followed by Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u87	I must admit, I am really disappointed in today's debate. How many conjectures and games when I hear the words, "I won't support," and then there's "...but I won't object" or "Take responsibility," and I don't know what else. My dears, this is how we will not go far in this country. You'll have to deal with the next one. This government is only here today for a month. The proceedings were initiated by the previous government, not this one, and most importantly with regard to the guarantees that I have heard about today for quite some time, who has been checking everything that has been done — I must say that the guarantees have been checked by the compensation society. You won't believe who's still running this compensation company today, which administration. The government set up by Janez Janša! If you don't trust this one, then everything is wrong with you in this country! Stop fooling around about what's right and what's wrong! The fact is, it'll all be "sugrunt" if something doesn't happen in this country! The government simply decided to make a certain proposal and to make a decision on the basis of what we have before us! I know what you're gonna say in the end. If it succeeds, you will say that you did not object that you were not against it, but if it fails, you did not vote in favour. Come on, these are old tricks, take responsibility or decide not to sit in this national council. The fact is, we all look at us and smile, and we smile at ourselves in this national assembly when we talk in this way. We have a great responsibility. It is the responsibility of the government, the responsibility of all those who have worked, prepared, tried to do something. We all know what this means – whether we will successfully sell Pekko and hope for the best of things to succeed and that Pekku will succeed and survive, or not, or not succeed. Tell me where this guarantee is. Who's got that magic wand? We don't have it, we just don't have it. If it weren't for state property, would we be talking about it for so long?Oh, my God! In the market, it would be the same selling or bankruptcy, and all of us would have had a headache because they would say that we had no influence. Today we are in a situation of state ownership, and the procedure is still such that we must decide on this in the National Assembly. What do we do? We're saying we won't decide to let the state decide? Are we talking about classification? Please, because there is no common sense in this logic that we will decide on a classification that you say is transparent, clear. How clear it is – we have not made any strategies! This classification has not been accepted and has fallen because there were no serious arguments as to how we came to these investments, which are safe investments, which are those investments from which we will say good-bye, etc. Do not hide behind the paper that was written, but no one understands how we got to it! For the time being, the law is still in force. The National Assembly shall decide on an agreement to sell on the basis of a proposal from the Government. The government has done it, prepared it, and everyone in this country is taking responsibility. I hope you won't hide behind when you say, "I wasn't there, I wasn't making any decisions." Take responsibility for once! We are all Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is also a responsibility for us to decide whether or not we will accept this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u88	Thank you, too. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Prepare the mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I have already said the position of the Group of Members, but I will also say my personal position, which is not different from that of the Group of Social Democrats. First of all, as a social democrat, I am sorry that we are selling a Slovenian company to foreigners to sell a brand like Pekko. However, we have only two choices, whether this company goes bankrupt on 1 May or this buyer, one way or another, is trying to solve this company in some way. I believe that if we sell this company and if the buyer is serious, the company will get rid of it and keep its jobs in Tržič. Here I have a magnetogram, ladies and gentlemen, and I will not read what Peter Ješovnik said at an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Economics that we must do as soon as possible in the country what the National Assembly must do, etc. This is the President of the Slovenian Compensation Society, who is a member of the SDS and you set it up. He begged and asked us to carry out this procedure as soon as possible. I have a lot of e-mails from Mr Ješovnik, from the people of Sod that we should do something to the politicians, so that we don't let Pek go bankrupt just like that. For this reason, I propose that we take this decision so that those who vote in favour take the responsibility if anything happens. If this is going to be a company, thank God, it's profitable again, and I'm the reason we can all be in charge, and we can all be happy. I'm really curious, ladies and gentlemen. The current opposition advocates the sale or sale of property. This time I am really interested, and I look forward to the discussions of the current opposition when we are selling profitable companies, when we are selling our companies, which we are proud of, and which some funds or any company will also report to. I want to know what you're going to do when we're selling real businesses, respectable ones, talking about what your discussions are going to be. So far, we're selling a company that's on its knees right now. If the country had a solution and Pekko would remain in Slovenian hands, this moment would be the happiest. Unfortunately, he doesn't have that solution. We have a buyer. After all, I also trust Mr Ješovnik and the team that prepared this sale. I also trust the Secretary of State, including Minister Stepišnik. All contracts have signatures, both on the left and on the right, and it will then be answered if anything happens. I'll support this sale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u91	Your Honor! Today's debate has shown that such debates do not belong to Parliament. It is a matter of professional questions as to whether or not certain sales are made under economic conditions. The purpose of this House is to identify which investments are non-strategic and go on sale, to define sales objectives, sales methods and all other circumstances, but not to decide and give consent, because they are marked by such and different indications, either political or a variety of colours, as we have heard today from coalitions, as well as from opposition types. That is why we have prepared the Slovenian State Holding Act, so we wanted experts in this institution to implement and ultimately also decide on these procedures on the basis of previously published known criteria, criteria and lists. Some of you asked how the previous government viewed it. We have made this very clear to you, because you had the classification and guidance adopted by the previous government in this House, and you refused. The views of the previous government are clear, well-known. I hope that this is the first and final debate on concrete sales in this Parliament and that it will be decided later by those who will also be determined in accordance with the OECD rules and will be decided in the framework of the Slovenian State Holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The word has been given by a representative of the Magnificent Government. Mitja Mavko, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President, thank you very much to all Members and Members for today's debate. Indeed, before you is a proposal from the Government for the sale of Pekko from Tržič to the buyer of Croatian origin, Crampex. Indeed, what has been repeatedly pointed out in the National Assembly today is that it is not the easiest decision to make. Nor did the Government take this decision of a light heart, and we wanted to present in a very transparent way with accompanying documentation all the efforts made, including by colleague Misic, who was mentioned so many times earlier, to obtain the best possible guarantees in relation to this sale. This sale has a very long beard. The story started already in 2011 with State aid and began with a serious commitment at the end of 2012 on a common approach to sales. The proposal before you today is not just a proposal from the Government on sales, the proposal before you is a proposal that is coordinated between all sellers, including two private banks, one of which is foreign-owned. We'd all like to attract a strategic investor to Pekko. Believe me, there was a lot of effort in the sales process to attract him. More than 130 leather companies around the world have been contacted to attract a strong strategic investor, and unfortunately it has not been successful. On the other hand, there was a very large question in the National Assembly about the alleged property on the basis of the properties of Peko, d.d. If this asset were really that large, so extensive, there would undoubtedly be at least some interested financial funds that would probably approach the offer for Pekko for a speculative purpose and there were no such funds. That's why we have a proposal like this today. It is important to know that Pekko has nominally a real estate asset of EUR 12 million. Approximately three quarters of these assets are mortgaged, which means they are not freely transferable. Approximately a million of these are the D mortgages. S.U. Therefore, once again by the Government, the guarantees offered in the course of the sale process are solidarity, solidarity guarantees, the guarantees of the company Cromempex, all its subsidiaries and the owners of the company personally in the form of monetary statements. In the final round of negotiations, the government wanted to obtain additional insurance, an additional guarantee. Here, colleagues Mišič and the Minister of Economy have made an extraordinary effort to agree to conclude an annex to the contract for the execution of the said purchase option, which has been mentioned here several times. We believe that the proposal before you today is in the interests of the state and the interests of society, because all those who today oppose this kind of business need to ask themselves what are the alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-04-26-SDZ6-Izredna-33.ana.u94	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. As I see that there is no longer a desire for a debate, I am concluding a general debate on the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for a decision, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia gives D. S.U., consultancy and management company, d.o.o., consent to alienate capital investment D. S.U., consultancy and management companies, d. o.o., in the company Peko, shoe factory, d.d. " We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. I inform the members of the Committee on the Economy and the members of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that today's joint meeting on the 2013-2014 National Reform Programme will be suspended in 15 minutes, at 6.20 p.m. in a large salon. Nicely greeted.
