ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Renata Brunskole, Mrs Sonja Ramšak, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Marija Plevčak, mag. Leila Hercegovac, Mr. Dragutin Mate, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Bojan Starman, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Ivan Hršak. I have invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the President of the Council of Justice, Mr Janez Vlad, to the 24th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 13 September 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw a point from the agenda. However, we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following the agreement of the 64th meeting of the College of Presidents of the State on 20 September 2013, I propose to the Assembly that the agenda of the 17th session be extended by consideration of the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Insurance Act, urgent procedure, EPA 1434-VI. You received an extension proposal on Friday 20 September 2013. I ask if the representative of the Government, who is proposing the law, wishes to present the reasons for the inclusion on the agenda. I guess not. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. This concludes the debate on the proposal for enlargement and brings us to a decision. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We are voting on the proposal to extend the agenda. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 3. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The National Assembly will consider the draft law as the 4th item of the agenda on Thursday, 26. 9. 2013 We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference, with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 17th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We move on to the 23rd A-point of the agenda, this is the request of the assembly of Members and Members of the Parliament to decide on the decision of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law supplementing the Law on Public Layouts of Defence after a shorter procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 63rd session. 9. 2013 decided that the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Funds, EPA 1014-VI, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by Members Saša Kos and Alenka Pavlič, should be considered following a reduced procedure. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the group of 26 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. Does Mr Jože Tanko's representative wish to present a decision-making position? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Funds, as the President said, had been tabled in the legislative procedure for May. At that time, at the College, we discussed this matter and it was agreed that the drafter would adequately supplement and write down all the necessary explanations that belong to this law. This law increases enormously the possibility of borrowing public funds, from 10% of the assets of funds to 50% of the assets of funds, which means that this law brings additional debt of EUR 400 to 500 million, without the guarantee of the founder, such as the Municipality of Ljubljana. The key fund in this area, which probably needs such a debt, is the Housing Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana. And by allowing such uncontrolled indebtedness to the funds, there is also uncertainty in the financial situation, in the financial operations of the Republic of Slovenia, because in accordance with the agreement between the Government and the Municipality of Ljubljana reached 23. Seven. In 2013, point 3 states that it is proposed to borrow without the local community guarantee. This means that everything that this fund owes will become a public burden in the event that the fund cannot pay. In this case, it is in fact a similar matter, such as the Factor Bank or Probank, to the extent of EUR 500 million, according to the founder's guarantees that it should give, it is EUR 500 million. And it's obvious that this is some kind of uncontrolled debt to allow some bypass. With regard to the operation and operation of the Municipality of Ljubljana Housing Fund, we also faced an additional problem a long time ago. In the years leading up to this, a completely clear deal, the purchase of 300 apartments, was concluded by an advisory agreement with an advisory company from Liechtenstein, and almost EUR 700 000 of public funds to advise where to buy free apartments in Ljubljana, in fact something that is incomprehensible in all this luxury of empty apartments in Ljubljana. This law actually allows the continuation of the technology of work that is characteristic of certain structures that do not operate transparently, which do not operate in the public interest, which do not work in such a way as to benefit the state and the community, but act in the interest of benefiting themselves or those of their teams there. I suggest that you also seriously consider whether members of the coalition would support such a procedure in this law. I believe that the law is harmful, very harmful, especially because it does not bear any responsibility for those who hire it, because if the founder of the fund does not give the guarantee, then it is coverage when it is dried up by some other means. Nowhere in the explanation is it clear where this debt will be counted. Whether it is in the country's debt or it is in the debt of what we report to the European Commission, the European Community, whether it is another form of debt. It is clear, however, that this handball procedure is intended solely to appease the lobbies expected from the mandate of this government and this coalition, for as long as it takes, a rich compensation. The use of this money will be completely uncontrollable, just as it has been for many years now. Therefore, I propose that the National Assembly of the Proposal for a short-term procedure does not support and that, if you have already decided to do so, at least a normal regular procedure should be initiated and that we also hold a general debate in the case of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you, too. Let me remind you that there is no discussion and no explanation for this request. Therefore, we are coming to a decision and I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Funds shall be dealt with in a simplified procedure. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, for 31, for 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the 15-day deadline for the submission of a request for a general debate on a proposal for a law begins today. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I think it is right to open another subject before we begin the work of the National Assembly, this is a reminder of August 23rd and of the European Parliament resolution and the pan-European Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Totalitarianism. On 12 July, three signatories from the SDS, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party sent a proposal to the President of the National Assembly that, in the same way as it did for Srebrenica and marked a day of remembrance with a speech by the President of the National Assembly, this address should also be made on the first occasion of the meeting of the National Assembly in conjunction with this resolution of the European Parliament. This effort has unfortunately been ignored, but we believe that it is right for us to take this fifth step in the National Assembly as well. Topics related to victims of war and, in particular, post-war beatings, out-of-court, Slovenian policy is avoided in all possible ways. Even yesterday, when the day of the remembrance of the destitute children in Ormož, the official representatives of Slovenian politics were not there, I will say, from the official structures. This is said to have been neither the President of the National Assembly nor the President of the Republic, nor anyone from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that in Slovenia it represents about a tenth of the casualties made in war and postwar killings on Slovenian soil, it would be good for the President of the National Assembly to give the citizens, the Slovenian political signal with an address in the National Assembly. However, obviously this topic is not one that would motivate the governing structures to bring reconciliation in the Slovenian people, to avoid this topic, to even in Bosnia to deal with excavations, to identify victims from the Srebrenica and surrounding areas, all of them are blocked. Therefore, I propose that, Mr President, because you did not do your duty to all victims of war and post-war massacres, including those children who were marked by death yesterday, the National Assembly should pay at least a minute of silence. I hope that this minute of silence for the victims of totalitarian regimes will also be ordered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you. Procedurally, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u6	I would like to join this proposal because Nova Slovenije was also a co-signatory of this proposal. I'd like to mention a beautiful example that happened yesterday. After the war in 1945, there were many closed Slovenians and German-speaking minorities in the concentration camp in Kidrič, Strnišče or Sterntal. Then more than 300 children were diverted to the castle in Ormož. There 39 died in two months, August, September, some in October. Ormož Municipality, all the saints - from all the political options - supported the proposal to set up a monument for them, a landmark that was blessed at the Armenian cemetery yesterday. I think it must be an example, a real step towards a device. And if we feel sorry for the victims of Srebrenica, I think we should also feel compassion for the victims of Slovenians who have been murdered in some way in Slovenia. That is why such respect, such pietas to all of these, only this can lead us one step forward to reconciliation and reconciliation of the divisions that we know are in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you. With this procedural proposal, can I say that as President of the State, you want me to proceed procedurally? [[...]] Mr. Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We also signed in the Slovenian People's Party under this initiative at a time when the whole of Europe remembered the victims of totalitarian systems. We believe that the initiative is on the ground and that it is also right for the Slovenian Parliament to be able and bow to these victims. It is good to give a minute of silence to those who have suffered in the past, as much better than to encourage and seek differences between us at the celebrations, celebrations, celebrations, and celebrations. But let's take our eyes forward. I myself am joining this initiative, which we have gladly signed as a party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you. However, in view of the correctness of the indications presented by the leader of the Jožet Tank Group of Members, I would like to point out what I am already at the College, that, even on the occasion of the Pan-European Day of Remembrance, the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, which was on 23 August, were by the National Assembly or on behalf of the President of the National Assembly, have also written a text on my behalf, which has also been published and we have therefore shown respect for this event. If you feel that a minute of silence should mark this event, of course we can do so. I invite you to recall a minute of silence on the occasion of the pan-European Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes on this resolution. ♪ A minute of silence ♪
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u10	We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 45 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government shall reply to the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister-General or the Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Let me inform you that Mr Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Mag, apologized for this point today. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment. An e-club also provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. At this point, however, we are moving on to the question of the Member States. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. The first question will be asked by Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good afternoon, distinguished Prime Minister Mrs. Alenka Bratušek, distinguished ministerial assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues! Madam President, I believe you already sent a congratulations to German Chancellor Angela Merkel for the triumphant victory of her Christian Democrats in yesterday's elections. Today we will talk a lot about the Slovenian economic momentum, and this is also closely linked to the German economy, which is the strongest European economy. That's why it's such an introduction. Madam President! You have already called on the economy to propose measures to increase competitiveness and economic growth. That's the way I welcome it. The economy has withdrawn its proposals and recommendations for action by the Government in the Oxygen for the Economy documents. On 9 August this document was signed by 6 representative organisations of the Slovenian economy. I ask you, Madam President of the Government: How do you accept the proposals or requirements of the Slovenian economy? What concrete measures and what time dynamic will the Government take to revive the Slovenian economy, one of the priority commitments in the arrangement of coalition parties for participation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Yesterday, I read that the Government had prepared 338 measures to improve the business environment. I want to know: What are the concrete objectives of these measures in numbers, for example, how many new jobs, what is the economic growth weather projection and what is the time-frame for achieving the effects or objectives of government measures? Madam President, thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u13	First of all, thank you very much for that question. I also welcome the fact that, if I may call them that, if I may, the economists have prepared a set of measures that they see as aid to the Slovenian economy. They've been divided into four segments, and that's how I'm going to touch them. Sanitation banks. On Friday, you spent the whole day in the National Assembly on more or less being very familiar with the start of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system. I can tell you that we are in virtually impossible short periods, that in two months, technically prepared a bad bank for the transfer of bad claims to this bad bank to start. Why this doesn't happen, we've said it many times. The figures on which the assessments of the necessary funds for the resolution of the banking system were based are not my government numbers, but are Banka Slovenije numbers. The European Commission wants a new assessment for our banks. That's why we're waiting for the stress test results. And that's the only reason this transmission doesn't start. In my opinion and in our opinion, the resolution of the banking system and the fact that banks will start lending the economy again will be the most helpful to the Slovenian economy. And that is about the opinion of the economy. The second part, which is also linked to companies, is the indebtedness of businesses. The responsibility of Slovenian companies is the biggest problem at the moment. The law or two laws are practically ready, and we also coordinate them with the international institutions, the IMF and the European Central Bank. Selective state aid is the next economic proposal. I can only say that we agree that only those who have a chance of survival have to be helped with state money. And that is exactly what we do, and we will do it in the future. Structural reforms are the next big package. The pension reform and labour market reform, Mr Horvat, you will remember, was adopted at the end of last year. This year, we set ourselves the task of evalising the effects, whether they are really what you predicted when you proposed to adopt these two reforms, and if we find that no, people will also have to be told that the reforms were too mild, were not what the economy expects of us, and we will have to negotiate again. But they were adopted in December and we will wait for the effects. Health reform. We can say reform, but we can say a change to two laws: the Health Activity Act and the Health Insurance Act, which are both preparing, and I think you should be on the tables just in due course. Revision of the public procurement system. Absolutely with great emphasis on guarantees. This is the desire of the economy that we will follow. The Ministry of Finance is preparing this, given that it is a large segment, but I do not hope to say that it will be done within 14 days. The start of the economy and competitiveness, the removal of administrative or bureaucratic barriers, is absolutely very serious also with the package you mentioned, which is a large part of it, but it is not a large part, but it did, it is a deregulation of professions where we went from 65 to 25, it is already accepted. Better business management. Absolutely, absolutely, absolutely, absolutely, because if we look at the results of the management of our companies in the past, I will say, they have been quite catastrophic. Amendment of the Slovenian State Holding Act goes in this direction, is currently under public scrutiny, you can make comments and we will see what else can be done. More investment. We are also absolutely in agreement here, and we will also demonstrate this in the budget. It is true that they will be more targeted because they are linked to European funds. But since I'm running out of time now, I believe we can finish this in addition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u14	Mr Horvat has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Madam President. These must be challenging projects, as well as those measures you mentioned. I would recommend that, of course, if I may, in order to resolve the situation in Slovenia, we should also invite the opposition, as we did last year, to participate in the rehabilitation of banks, in the Slovenian State Holding and so on. That's my recommendation. I asked you about the specific effects in numbers. Surely, when you are doing some business plan, for example at the company, then you are operating on some numbers that you want to achieve. Of course, I am particularly interested in: How many new jobs do you plan to get in Slovenia on the basis of these measures? What is the time projection of the growth of the Slovenian economy based on these measures? So, I'm expecting really specific numbers. However, we both know that let's say 60,000 new jobs, which, of course, cannot be created in one year in order to probably solve the situation in Slovenia. At that time, we would no longer talk about pension issues, health issues, education issues, and so on. In fact, we need to find the answer to one question: How to start an economy, how to create a recital 60,000 new jobs? That's what I'm interested in, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you. Do you want to give an additional answer? President of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. I believe that if it were as simple as you just said, your government would have done it last year. I can give you the answer that unemployment has fallen by 7,000 600 people this year, 116 thousand are unemployed right now. I agree with you, absolutely still substantially too much. That is why I have gone through the measures, and we will also present these figures very precisely with the budget of these measures. You must admit that for the first time in history, either alone or my government, I have presented the stability programme before it was adopted to the opposition. And I intend to do the same with the budget and the measures. Before we give things away, I also plan this meeting and this conversation. However, I have already said several times that unfortunately at this point we cannot only deal with economic growth, but we also have to deal with the consolidation of public finances. And the measures for one part are little contrary to the measures for the other part, so I have been stressing for the last six months that measures need to be found which will have at least a negative impact on economic growth and still allow for the consolidation of public finances. We both know that as long as the budget shows a deficit – and we plan close to a billion next year – those who lend us money should be assured in a credible way that the money will be returned. And at this point, by lowering the tax burdens, we're still making this hole bigger. We can agree that this is short-term and that the long-term impact could be more positive, but we also need to ensure the stability of public finances in the short term. By reducing tax burdens, of course, there would be a demand to reduce expenditure and rights. When I took over government leadership, I said that if our people decided to take this path, radical tax cuts, and, on the other hand, radical spending cuts, that means rights, right, but I think that a very broad social agreement is needed to achieve this. And in my opinion – of course I do not defend it, we have countries that are social, have higher taxes and are economically very successful. I think this is the only way for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you for complementing the answer. Mr Joseph Horvat has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Madam President, for your answers. This is therefore an extremely important area, which in Slovenia, I believe, is too slow and we are doing too little effectively to save – this is the start of the economy. Because of my firm conviction that this moment is the most important segment of the functioning of the National Assembly, this is the decision-making process for urgent economic momentum, I propose, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly decide to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Ms Alenka Bratušek. I agree that, as you have said, Madam President, the resolution of the banking system is a priority. I regret that we have not started this year. So we've lost about nine months, and that's gonna cost us a hell of a lot. Colleagues and colleagues, we must all agree that a positive social climate is also essential for the economic initiative. The projected new taxes, the projected and unimaginable breakdown of the local self-government system, even the tax on sacral buildings, which I understand is an attack on the essence of Slovenian culture, all of this creates a negative social climate and consequently a negative entrepreneurial initiative. As I said in the introduction, it is a matter of stepping together to have a good debate and taking good solutions to the start of the Slovenian economy. That is why I think it is imperative that we hold a thorough debate on this in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 24. 9. 2013, in the framework of the votes. I'm asking the next question. Mark Pogačnik, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u21	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! Dear President of the Government, I would like to ask you a question about the source of stability in the financing of the pension fund. At your last meeting or at your June meeting as Prime Minister of the Government, you said you would strive for the financial stability of the pension fund. In 2013, you do not expect additional measures in the area of pensions, and you added that for 2014, the objective is certainly to avoid interference with rights. Since 2005, the relationship between insurers and pensioners has deteriorated significantly, and some of this has been limited mainly by the new pension reform. The financial stability of the pension fund, taking into account budgetary options and the economic situation, is critical. Almost a third of the money earmarked for pensions provides a budget, which is also being burdened by increasing liabilities due to borrowing of loans. The budget story is also problematic because we have in the past a lot of debt, which means high interest, and we also have very high legal obligations from the past. The additional aggravating situation in all of this is also around 120,000 unemployed. We have tracked the new proposal of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which proposes that Kad joins SDH, which on the one hand is a centralisation of assets and is positive on the one hand. The question is that this proposed law deletes that when more than EUR 50 million is not paid by law for pension liabilities, the proposal of the Slovenian State Holding Act deletes that there is no longer a protector that the assets of Kad cannot be used for purposes other than the purposes laid down by law. The proposed Slovenian State Holding Act stipulates that the balance sheet profit cannot be distributed to shareholders but that it can be freely available. The proposed law also deletes an article that ensures that 10% of the purchases sold by the State are intended for the additional provision of PSF funds. I would also like to highlight the fact that over the past 13 years, the Capital Society has paid around €600 million for the pension fund and even a hundred million in 2010. In what way will you ensure the stability of the pension fund in this deletion without raising taxes?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you so much for asking. First, Mr Pogačnik, with the additional 140 million to be provided in the state budget, we have ensured the financial sustainability and stability of the pension allowance for this year. You left a 40-million-dollar hole in this area in the budget. If they did not do so, pensions for the last half of the year should be reduced by 6.6%. That could have been your plan, too. In short, it's this year. For the following year, the revenue of this work is foreseen, according to the Capital Society, as you planned. We haven't changed anything here either. I can assure you that in 2014, this was the agreement within the government and the coalition, additional interventions other than what has already been done, in pensions and other non-retirement matters, will not be paid out of the pension register. The fact is that the biggest source of income for the pension fund is contributions. With higher economic growth, new jobs will also increase contributions. The pension reform mentioned earlier, which we did, I myself sat there when we accepted it, and according to your colleague sitting next to you, these financial effects should be enormous already in 2013. If it turns out that's not the case, I've already told you what our job is. As for Kad and the previously mentioned law, which is at this time in some way in the debate, after the accession of Kad to SDH, all the powers, rights and obligations of Kad, determined by laws and on the basis of their issued regulations, and the related assets, shall be transferred to SDH. Thus, SDH becomes the universal successor of Kad in all legal relations and assumes all rights and obligations vis-à-vis third parties, i.e. pension funds. But somehow you don't care about the pension fund, and I will remind you how, whoever it is, has forced Kad to recapitalise the New Bank of Ljubljana at the end of 2012 after that exercise with Coco bonds and KBC. Will you now tell the pensioners what a loss this has caused to Kadu, and how much of it they have been deprived of? I think it would be right if we put this on the table and tell them. In any case, I guarantee that the pension box is absolutely stable. As much as it takes, we will ensure from the state budget and as much as you have planned to contribute when the pension fund will also receive from this source.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you. The request to complete the answer is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u25	Dear President of the Government, I have asked a question here, so I expect you to answer the question, but not to argue in 90% with events in the past. As President of the Government, you have taken responsibility and I am interested in: How will you ensure that the pension fund is sustainable in the future? The fact is that the article in this Act is deleted, namely that 10% of the purchases are intended for the sustainability of the pension fund. It's not like that. I want to know how you're going to replace this source of funds. On the other hand, the existing law, Article 75 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, provides for the transfer of the share of the insurance company Triglav 34.5 from the ZPIZ to Holding. In doing so, I would mention that this article provides that the PIZ will therefore be compensated at market price. Today is Insurance Company Triglav, the capital value is about 430 million euros. This means that the PIZ from this title would receive about EUR 150 million. In doing so, we know that PIZ pays about 3 billion a year, and it is likely that about 300 million a month. There is no doubt that, in the case of a market part of this insurance undertaking, there is a risk that PPIZ will actually be damaged, as SDH is likely to sell this insurance undertaking at a significantly higher price than this one in the future, and this address will damage the PPIZ for this difference that will be sold. On the other hand, it should also be noted that the National Assembly adopted a law in May 2008 explicitly advocating that this share of the insurance company Triglav is strictly intended for the pension fund and that it is owned by the ZPIZ. And you make a difference here. I'm interested in your comment. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] PIPZ options? [[...]] In what way will you provide the resources by eliminating Article 10 % of the value of the purchase, so that no longer the PIZ is indicated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer? President of the Government, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u27	I'll try again, Mr. Pogačnik, with the facts. As far as Kad and SDH are concerned, I've said it and it's out of the law. All rights and obligations, if Kad joins SDH, shall remain with SDH. You have already told the Insurance Company Triglav yourself – this is not a free transfer, but it is a payoff. So, the pension box office gets money out of it. Once again, I would like to say that this is the law that is currently in coordination. I hope, given now, that you still agree that the management of state property has not been the best so far. I have a feeling that now you're trying to tell me that everything has been fine so far. Nice, but O.K., let's talk, settle, and there's no problem if you've changed your mind. I'll tell you one more time. Who will cover the damage to the pension fund by forcing the new Ljubljana Bank to recapitalise? I only asked this question because I was not in the government at the time and I think it is also fair to tell Slovenian pensioners. Once again, I would like to state publicly that the pension register with the resources it has this year, with what we have fixed without reducing pensions, we have provided more resources for 140 million to ensure the stability of pension and disability allowances, so there will be no need to reduce pensions. What was your plan, I don't know. Maybe today you're suggesting we cut our pensions. Otherwise, according to my assessment, even with the proposed law on SDH, the pension register will not be damaged at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you. A procedural request shall be made by a mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u29	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, dear colleagues, colleague! Given the importance of the topic, I propose that the National Assembly at one of the next meetings hold a broader debate in this area. Dear President of the Government, I consider today's session to be such that you are answering the questions that Members are asking. However, I find it very inappropriate that you should be politicized, and as Prime Minister of the Government, you are asking questions here. The questions are addressed to you today, and I expect your answers as well. About the Triglav Insurance Company, you said so yourself. It'll be at the market price. This means that there is a potential risk of losing a large amount of funds in the sale of this property. It should also be pointed out that a referendum was held for the share of the Triglav Insurance Company, which exclusively prohibited the capital company from freely having that investment. In 2008, this share was transferred to the PPIZ as permanent property to provide additional pension funds, and now you are going beyond all laws and referendum will. The refund you're offering is to the detriment of the PIZ. And also, 10% of the sales of the property that is intended to be used to fill the pension fund, which makes it possible for the existing law, I think that these are large assets that will jeopardise the stability and sustainability of the pension fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you, too. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. The next question to be asked by the President of the Government is Mr Franz Bogovic, Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the Government, distinguished ministers, ministers, President of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! Madam President, you and your team have about half a year's work. As you like to say, the time is coming when we need to show in practice what we want, what we know and what we can do. I am aware that the time in which you took office as Prime Minister of the Government is demanding, so this time also needs talks, cooperation, coordination and in some way the involvement of all resources in society in order to come out of this crisis and find a recipe for the difficult conditions in which Slovenia is located. At that time, we certainly all agree, as we have heard today, that the only start-up and economic growth is what can get us out of other options is the real possibility of reducing the various benefits. When we review this half-year, we can say calmly what was done during this time. The VAT raise was carried out. This meeting provides for a change in the area of corporate income tax, as well as the Income Act, which is in some way coordinated with this freezing, we can say a certain crisis tax, and further, as we hear from the opposition that you do not talk to or have not had the opportunity to coordinate the proposals for the 2014 budget rebalancing and the 2015 budget, we are facing major changes in the area of real estate tax, a new tax that will change the current building land, as well as a package of legislation in the field of local self-government. In view of the fact that we have heard many times over the past six months that it is difficult within the coalition to reconcile individual views as to how difficult it is to find consensus in individual measures, you do not want to conclude that you have finally chosen those who can, in fact, at least defend themselves and impose the burden of this crisis on them in particular. To those who create new value, to workers, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, to farmers. On the other hand, the municipalities with the amended Law on the Financing of the Communities are those who will pay the greatest tax of this crisis, with the intention of abolishing or maintaining individual congregations. I also ask you: Do you assess that this meets the 2013 stability programme, which you already mentioned today, and in this programme the ratio that two thirds of the fiscal consolidation will be made in the field of [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] the parties and one third in the field of new taxes? [[...]] I have an entirely opposite view of these measures that have been taken so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. Unfortunately, my answers will be repeated a little, as the questions are very similar. Let's start with what's been done so far. I'm not going to start again or explain in a very broad way the rehabilitations of banks, where and why this part is standing. Secondly, the balance that we had to prepare and correct in order to make completely unrealistic planning. You have raised 700 million deficits in the first three months. In August, the state budget showed surplus. Together from January to August, the deficit amounted to 1.3 billion, 233 million per month under the previous government and about, on average, 100 million under this government. Thus, if I say so economically, we have managed to reduce the loss by 60% and, of course, to correct all the mistakes that have been made, unconstitutional and so on. I told companies that I am very committed and that I am working hard to have a law or two or a law, as far as they finally decide, before you as soon as possible. My wish was before, and because of the difficult matter, something completely new for our country, it can't be done so quickly. The debt we have managed to carry out, I agree, we can call it expensive or even too expensive, but we have successfully provided money to finance the budget by the end of the year. Unemployment, I have already said, also because of the active employment policy implemented by this government, has dropped to 116 000 people by 7 000 600 people, that is, 7 000 653 more concretely. Exports increased by 2.3% this year. If we say it's nothing, Mr. Bogovich, then I don't know. But we're also going to what you listed. VAT. We are one of the last European countries to raise value added tax. We deviate very minimally from the average of the European Union, and I am sure that you know this very well. The real estate tax is still being coordinated and I will not say with the social partners, but with the stakeholders involved. And I believe that in the end we will be able to bring this law together as widely as possible. But it seems to us, and that's why we've come to believe that those who have more in this country pay more taxes and that the system is the same all over the country. This is the basic starting point that we were doing when we started this marriage. In fact, this property tax is the last point in the 2013 Stability Programme. Since you asked me how we're doing it, we're going to say we're going to make a dot by 2013. The municipalities. Here we can talk about whose interest it is that the congregations do not shrink. Is this in the interest of the mayors or is this in the interest of the people? The vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes want to join congregations after public polls. And even according to our assessment, this will bring something good for the citizens, but of course for the mayors and political parties and officials something less good. But since we are aware that this is a process that has actually been building for twenty years, we are going to do it, and I will not say it slowly, but very carefully. The reasons why this makes sense are, of course, we do. So I think we made it through those main points.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr Bogovic has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u35	Madam President, you say the questions are repeated. I have a feeling that the answers are repeated no matter what the question is. You like to start in the last year, in what no one has done, what is wrong in the Slovenian space. You are forgetting what was done last year in the second half of the year to prevent the establishment of a bad bank. The fact that there would not be such a minus in the cash registers as they are, because we all know that with a year later such investment managements, with loans like now, this debt paid by taxpayers is only greater. Take a look at the memory of who filed a constitutional review at 7:30. Even at the Slovenian State Holding Company last year, everything was designed not to be accepted so as not to be corrected. You're a very good budget knower, you've been working on this for years, so you can't fool me if you're trying to talk to the public about what's happening in the first three months of the year, because we all know what the dynamics of the inflows in the budget are, and how the budget over all the years at the beginning of the year shows a significantly higher deficit than at the end of the year. I also see in the communication you are using, that you are keenly interested in attacking those who wish to participate in this matter. There was something similar in Celje at the trade and entrepreneurship fair, where entrepreneurs were very threatened. I was very dismayed when I heard on the Committee on the Economy that there was a document of more oxygen for the economy, that it was a wet dream for the economy, and this is said by the Member who runs the Committee on the Economy. That is why I think it would be precisely what I wanted at the beginning of your mandate on the first question of Parliament, as today, to sit together at the table and to agree on these measures, which are not simple, and to invite, in addition to the coalition and the opposition, as I have said many times before, trade unions on the one hand and employers on the other hand and together to find a way out of the crisis. I think you're looking for them, once more, I repeat, unilaterally on the side of those who are more difficult to defend in this society.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you. Do you want to add something to the response? The President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u37	I'd love to. Mr Bogovich, that is why I have also invited everyone you have just listed to help with this. My criticism is gone, and it's still going to be that we don't do it through the media. Those who think seriously, sit at the table and talk behind closed doors, not from every fictional action that neither the government nor anyone else is talking about, make a media drama. And that's exactly where my comment went, and today I can repeat to the economists who are replaying the media every week and saying what needs to be done. I will be very happy to sit with them on this subject. Now there's only two more things. The Bad Bank Act was enforced, I think, 27. 12. 2012. No matter what happened before, nothing was done until March 21st. Three months of nothing, nothing was ready when we came and took over the government. For SDH, you will remember well what our main criticism was. This is a transfer of property to SDH. And with a new proposal, ownership remains a state. The revenue from selling what we're selling, as much as we're selling, will go into the budget and won't stay at the holding company just like that. This was a major criticism of me personally when I was sitting in the opposition. And this with the bill before us, once again, is a proposal and it is coordinated, we are saving. Look, I am aware that economic growth is necessary. I am fully aware that consolidation of public finances is also necessary. And the consolidation of public finances can be done in three ways, even here I have said almost a number of times: with lower expenditure, which means interference with rights, you can also, if you think, just suggest these radical interventions; with more income or with a combination than we have done.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovich has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you. Given that this practice has been abolished, in order for the coalition and the opposition to harmonise such proposals also to the public, I will take this opportunity and propose that we discuss this in Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and find solutions together. But I'd like to present you with only the information. By the end of September last year there were 105 thousand 500 unemployed, today there were 116 thousand. This is also a cyclical phenomenon as in the budget, as you know very well. As for the bad bank, you forget what was missed in the second half of last year. You want to say that the first three months of this year, in which the company was founded and from here onward, is complicated because simply those who lend us money do not believe what we do in the Republic of Slovenia. I fear that the measures envisaged will be difficult to convince those who are lending us and will lend us money in the future. As far as Slovenian State Holding is concerned. Yeah, one thing's about assets, the other is about management. It is very well managed today, and it is also a political stand-up for those who are making this management easy today. And the ambitions of these obviously these laws that we have seen are similar to that of continuing to be done through the Court. I have a very bad feeling that we're in some kind of fuck where you say, "If you do, you suggest." We need to deal together, because I see that in this loving country, it is only with the finger that we want to point to who is to blame, and God forbid that someone with the right political option who you say only knows by reducing these rights what to suggest, because this is being used for this purpose. I think that in this country we will really all have to sit together and take these measures on both sides. For this reason, as I have already said, I hope that we will vote on the proposal to hold a debate on these issues in the National Assembly, rather similar to the first question put to you by the Member States, and perhaps in this way we will draw closer to the positions and find the measures that this country urgently needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be raised by Mr Matjaž Han, the Social Democrats, to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, dear colleagues! Slovenia is ahead of difficult decisions on the reduction of the public financial deficit. This also involves a number of discussions, where and how to save to the least extent possible the most vulnerable. Those who receive a minimum wage are certainly among them. We Social Democrats have always been and remain a coalition partner who is willing to talk about possible proposals. However, we believe that the discussions on interventions in minimum wages are not among them. Moreover, this would be the case for those who are among the most affected. We cannot afford to push them into even greater social distress. At the same time, Slovenia will not be more competitive. We have great problems with competitiveness in Slovenia. We believe that openness to foreign investment is also the key to a more successful breakthrough from the recession. The Radeška Paperhouse is certainly a fine example of a seemingly insurmountable situation by a foreign investor who is willing to give the company a new opportunity. Of course, the country must play an active role in such cases, with a focus on removing systemic barriers. An example of this is already the government's decision to help Zasav, which we must bring to life. For investors, quick and effective solutions towards financial incentives are crucial, only on the basis of these will they be willing to invest in Slovenia and Slovenian companies. So many times already, but there are also unused funds for the grey economy. We all know we have her, we all know she's here, but it doesn't seem like there's a real answer to how we're gonna infect her. On the basis of the experience of other countries, it has proved to be a tax instrument worth considering. In this area there are a number of other options that require systematic greater intervention. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: What are the further measures taken by the government in the fight against the grey economy? Are there any considerations among these measures on tax boxes? How will the government encourage foreign direct investment, and what steps have been taken so far? What is the government's direction in promoting economic growth? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you. I give my answer to the President of the Magnificent Government. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'll start with that, even though it wasn't part of the question. Minimum wage. Positive Slovenia also opposes any unilateral intervention in minimum wages. Let's make this clear from this place. And this is also one of the measures that we're talking about, I'm going to say, just like that, through the media, without any pre-negotiations, agreements, and so on. In the field of the grey economy, I think we are the first government to have done this at all, and this very serious and without a large media pump since 1 July 2013, is true this year, but I will touch this tax work at the end and first say that we have prepared a comprehensive document, the management of the grey economy in the Republic of Slovenia, which covers several ministries. This document will be supplemented by new measures and those to be implemented will be deleted from this document. But by fighting against the grey economy, we mean as much as possible. If I can just list a few things in this document. It's a black job. The new law is expected to be adopted by the end of 2013. Indemnities are foreseen for so-called black constructions, increased control of the work relating to the agricultural sector, logging and related trade, control of safe and quality food and action already under way, this is the Awakening Action. The market inspectorate shall continue to carry out close monitoring of the issuance of accounts. Now, as far as tax work is concerned. Like I said, we're with 1. 7. have already introduced a special computer program because it was faster and cheaper for the economy in the first phase. Tax and customs administrations are from 1. On 7th this year more than 14,000 activities were carried out in the field. It is true that during these summer months this was mainly the case for catering activities. Of course, we will now actively continue in other areas. Here, in a way, we came to appreciate that customs officers from the southern border, which at least is no longer in this customs work, have relaxed and can be used very well in this work. Through the media, we have also invited consumers to participate, and here I can say that it is a very positive response, as 50% of applications against non-accounting debtors have increased. Effects. I know there is a lot of talk now about the effects in Croatia, but it is necessary to know that they have started this intensified fight against the grey economy 1. 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st. Seven. We've had concrete results for the first two months. We can say that they are very good, according to our assessment, they give us reason for optimism. Those who make three months' worth of bills will be the result in November. If this is not the case, even if I say once again that we can be optimistic at this point or very optimistic if the result is not the same – yes, the introduction of tax registers. And that's a fact. All we want is a measure that has been put into practice – both tax receipts and the programme that has been put in place – both are tools for inspectors in order to be able to exercise their controls more closely. One important measure in the fight against the grey economy is also to increase the powers of inspectors. We know there's a lot of room here for new public finances, so we've taken this seriously. The fact is that this part of the fight against the grey economy can also contribute to faster and easier consolidation of public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr Han has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Very briefly. President of the Government, you have reassured me about the minimum wage, the grey economy, the tax box, and I also believe citizens and citizens, given what you yourself have found out what the media are reporting in some way every day. But I also want to know: What about foreign direct investment in Slovenia? We have now, as I said, an example of Radhite Paper. And I hope that the country will play the key role here, and that in the radio paper station they will turn the machines down in a very short time, and that we will again hire 150 people, not just for the valley like Radeče, but it is also important for all of Slovenia to give a signal to foreign partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you. Is there anything else that needs to be added to this answer? Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u47	As far as foreign direct investment is concerned, we are preparing an entry point, one entry point for investors, where they will receive all the information they need to do so. The second is the removal of administrative barriers. Over the past six months, I have had a lot of discussions with economists, and a large majority of them do not point to excessive tax burdens, but rather to the slow acquisition of various permits. The fact is that there will be a large part of the work here, and it is aware of this, that the Minister of the Jews had to do the environmental work. So it's kind of an agreement within the government that within a month we should have a plan, a list, a set, of these divergent agreements that can be simplified, which can be abolished and we'll come up with a cut in certain deadlines. Of course, meetings need to be made aware that we are part of Europe and that we must also respect in the environmental work what Europe is committed to. And the same applies in a way to the two reliefs that we talk about. We would like to find a possibility of additional relief for companies that would re-open jobs in our country and a second part for companies that would increase added value. And once we do that, I believe that the minimum wage issues will no longer be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you for complementing the answer. In doing so, I note that we have exhausted the questions that we are directly asking the President of the Government. I thank the Prime Minister for the answers he has given. However, we are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 16th meeting of the assembly. The Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cuffer, will answer Mr Zvonk Černač's question about the proposal for a real estate tax law. Mr. Chufer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The question is based on the amount of the property tax seized. Here I would like to say that from the start of this tax, when we started preparing, the purpose of this tax was to increase additional revenue in the budget, which was initially foreseen at EUR 240 million. After we put the law into public debate and, when we have also received a lot of proposals and comments, we have prepared a new version, which is currently in the coordination and discussion phase, which is somewhat popular and which in fact means additional resources of around 200 million euros for the budget. So far, my answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr Cernač has a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your answer. The question was a little wider. At the end of the question, I asked the Minister why, at the beginning of his prediction of this tax, the public was deceiving that the financial burden of this tax would be approximately the same as that of the three sources that this tax would replace. These burdens are now around €190 million per year. However, the burden projected after the new real estate tax is estimated to be somewhere between €400 million and €500 million, which is more than twice the burden for people, businesses and everyone else now. And the question to the minister was why, at the beginning of his prediction of this tax, he was misleading the public with this information. I have also presented some calculations on this issue, which are concrete calculations, which take into account the simulation in relation to the current situation and taking into account the rates foreseen in this paper, which is being publicised. From these calculations, which I presented at the previous meeting of July, it turns out that the smaller ones will pay more, the richer ones will pay more, and the smaller ones, which is the opposite, which is exactly the same for us every day and every time we can listen to this or have this opportunity, says Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. Today, too, she said that measures were being taken, including with regard to real estate tax in order to pay more and less richer. No, no, no. It's gonna be the other way around! I mentioned the case of the large shopping centre, which today pays 150 000 euros a year, after which it will pay less than 50,000 euros, it is said, three times less. And something similar is happening in farmers who will pay 8 times, some even 10 times more at these rates that are foreseen. That was the question of why the deception. And the second question is why this law, which, as we have heard in the Government, is not harmonised, because Minister Stepišnik supports it, Minister Židan does not support it, does not withdraw from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? Dr. Urosh Chufer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. This law is, in any case, still in coordination and debate. From the starting point forward, as I said, this law was designed as an additional source of revenue and not as something that would only compensate for other duties at the same level. As I said earlier, additional resources were foreseen for the 240 million euro budget in the initial phase. In the second phase, when most of these comments were taken into account, examined and looked at what we can do with them, and even looked back at the amount of the proceeds, a little below EUR 200 million will come. Thus I do not see any deception here, because from the beginning the purpose of this law was not only to replace existing ones but to obtain resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr Chernač has a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u55	I think that, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in Parliament, a debate should be held on the response of the Minister of Finance to this question. Not only because of what he did not say here today, but also because of what we listened to in the past about the introduction of this tax. From everything we have heard so far, it follows that even the Government itself does not know what the main purpose of the introduction of this tax is. Then we have seen that, even in the Government, ministers do not have the same or approximately equal starting points as regards the introduction and capture of this tax. At one of the meetings of the parliamentary committee, we listened to Minister Stepišnik, who supported this tax, such as it was, and at one of the meetings of the committee, or even on the public television of Minister Židan, who strongly opposed it. I think it's wrong. It is an important tax, which should not have a major focus on the government collecting 2.5 times more over it than it picks up today. This is not the main purpose of this tax, but rather of regulating records on the one hand and paying this burden in a fair manner on the basis of these regulated records. It seems important to me that in this debate we clarify how those who use these properties today should be burdened. All of these should be burdened roughly as they are today — and no more. This proposal does not bear this burden in any version, but it places a considerable burden on them more than is burdened by compensation today. I asked an example: the four-member family is paying 79 euros today, after this calculation that you have put into consideration, it would pay 260 euros for a new one. That's unacceptable! This tax must not have a fundamental focus on looting small taxpayers. He can't have that focus! On the other hand, how much of this push from one to the other cash register. You're predicting the taxation of everything. For example, a primary school, not a large school, which today pays no compensation for the use of building land, will pay 14 000 euros, 500 children attend this school. These are questions that are not answered. And until these things have been cleared up, and apparently could not be clarified at the level of the Government, I suggest that they be clarified through the debate in the National Assembly and that on this basis you then prepare a law that will receive wider support and will allow the relevant records to continue. Its main focus must not be the looting of small people, but the regulation of records and some normal taxation, as we know it in all other countries. I am afraid that, as these procedures are now under way, this will not be the case and that some will be forced to sell their assets because of the abnormally high rates of this tax or to lose them through confiscation because they will not be able to pay this tax. This refers to small farms, the poorer ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal for a debate tomorrow, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. This concludes these questions. I ask Dr Uroš Chufer to answer Mr Ivan Hršak's question regarding the exhaustion of the pension allowance. The question was raised at the 16th meeting of the assembly. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much for this question, which was raised at the previous meeting of the National Assembly and which, in fact, my colleague, Minister Anja Kopač, has already answered very well. I could only say that, given all the elements she gave and the numbers she presented, I do not actually have any additional argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr Hršak is not in the hall right now either, so I am concluding this question. Although I miss the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mags in the Chamber. Stanka Stepišnik, who should answer the question of Master Katarina Hočevar. The question was at the 16th meeting of the assembly. Can we just see if there's anywhere in the lobby? We have just become Minister of Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stanko Stepišnik joined. Let's wait for the pay phone. Minister, you have a word with the possibility of answering mags. Katarina Hotchevar asked a question at the 16th meeting of the assembly. The question relates to action on detected infringements at the Union of Consumers of Slovenia and the International Institute for Consumer Research.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you so much for asking. The unregulated situation in the area of consumer protection did not begin to be identified only by issuing reports from supervisory authorities. In January 2011, she is Minister of Mag. Dara Radic decided to abolish the former Consumer Protection Office and to establish a new consumer protection sector within the Ministry in order to systematically improve the situation. At that time, the Director of the Consumer Protection Office, who is also no longer employed at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, was also resolved. Following the abolition of the Consumer Protection Office in January 2011, a number of basic consumer protection acts were then prepared, which should have been adopted before termination, and were essential for the continuation of consumer protection work. It should also be pointed out that the Ministry has always been in the interest of clarifying the disputed circumstances and is therefore also Minister of Mag. Radovan Žerjav later received even for the KPK legal act, ordering an extraordinary audit of the Internal Audit Service of the Ministry. Furthermore, it must be clarified that only on the basis of the reports of the supervisory authorities, the Ministry cannot act in such a way as to file claims for damages and criminal charges – the criminal complaint has been received by the Mag. Radovan Žerjav and another associate – because this content of the nature of the reports does not in itself allow it. The Commission’s intention to prevent corruption was not to identify individual corruption, but rather to identify and address systemic risks to corruption, as set out in the third point of the CPK’s recommendations. Nor does the Internal Audit Service's recommendations give rise to specific offences that may be the basis for the submission of claims but imposes on the Ministry's responsible persons a review of past acts. Finally, I should like to add that the State Prosecutor's Office is also aware of these findings. If any irregularities and illegality are identified by the competent authorities, they shall act in accordance with their respective competences. However, the Ministry will take action, in accordance with its powers, against both responsible persons and against the recipient of the budget if irregularities are identified. You are further asking whether the Slovenian Consumers' Union and the MIPOR Office still have the status of consumer organisations and if property claims against them are made. It should be clarified that the Commission's report on the prevention of corruption and the Ministry's internal audit services do not give rise to a finding or conclusion that the Slovenian Consumers' Association or the MIPOR Office violated contractual or legislative obligations on the basis of which the Ministry could apply for reimbursement of funds. It should also be added that the subsequent review carried out on the basis of those reports by the specific working group of the Ministry did not reveal any breach of the contractual obligations on the basis of which reimbursement might be required. However, we guarantee that if such violations are detected, the Ministry will require reimbursement of funds and will also implement other appropriate sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thanks for the answer. The request to complete the answer is mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I welcome the ministers present and the colleagues and colleagues. At the time of the previous meeting of the National Assembly, when I asked you a question, OLAF even initiated an investigation into this matter. This is the European Anti-Fraud Office. And I understand this introduction itself as a confirmation that there is something missing in your ministry and that I am sure that things have been going on for several years. I don't blame you or that it was during your ministry. Look, Minister, let's assume that you are the president of the Consumer Protection Society and that you want to apply for a public tender for the European Consumer Centre. You are all thrilled to submit your application and also this condition that you need to have European funds does not bother you. But later you will find that the same ministry, which requires European funds from you, has already made it possible for the Slovenian Consumer Union to do so. This is proof that apparently the official machinery at your ministry is leading its way. I want to know: Are you still saying that the invitation to tender for the period 2012 to 2013 was lawful? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u62	I give the floor to Mr Stepišnik to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you. I think it was legal. The biggest problem with the Union of Consumers and in general for the brochure and consumer advice is that these organisations cannot agree on each other and as soon as we select one organisation, the other uses all legal means to stop it. We have somehow agreed that we will be doing this work at the Ministry of the Economy, because we have enough staff at our disposal, and we will not be repeating the invitation to tender for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you. This concludes the question and answer to the question posed by the Magi. Katarina Hotchevar. Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar will answer Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič's question about the intervention law on amendments and supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act. The question was raised at the 16th meeting of the assembly. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! If I can talk about the intervention law or the amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act already provided for in the coalition agreement with certain purposes. One of the main purposes is also linked to the OECD guidelines, which means that the contributions we pay for health care from different categories are equal or are gradually at least equivalent. We know that today this payment is very different and that most of them are regularly employed, and many other categories of people in Slovenia are significantly less, meaning that there is some principle of solidarity in the exercise of healthcare rights, and not in any way in the payment given the ability of an individual to exercise these rights. The next purpose of this Act is also to implement a directive on cross-border healthcare which enters into force in October and where certain adjustments or measures must be adopted by us. The proposal for a new law was prepared a few months ago in accordance with the timetable we set ourselves. During the coordination period, we failed to reach a common solution. In particular, it is the Civil Code which opposes this law in certain articles. We are talking mainly about passive revenues and burdens of espies, which are paying significantly less today. The agreement would still be possible if they were not linked to the PPIZ-2 methodology and to the information system currently in place by DURS, which means that direct accounting of traffic, such as espionage, and payment on the basis of this today is not feasible, so let us not move one step forward in this direction. This week, we are going to see this law uncoordinated in the government, in the form it was set up, and we are going to try again at the government's meeting with arguments that adoption is necessary and meaningful, and that what is being pointed out all the time that nothing has been done in health care on the expenditure side is not true. In recent years, health care has lost 350 million. Last year, last year, we adopted the ZUJF, which reduced annual expenditure by over 100 million and is also crucial to stabilising the financial situation in health, or I think we will face major problems. However, this is also the starting point, so this is equalisation of the contribution rates, for the system law itself, which is already in preparation, given that this will only give us information on the amount of money that will be available for health care, especially for compulsory health insurance, which is a prerequisite for us to create a basket of rights. That is why I believe that adoption is essential, and I hope that this week we will succeed in the government to this extent, and will continue its journey to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you. Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič will submit a request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Of course, I have also drawn up my question to speed up the path of this intervention law, which, like the Ministry, I feel is still needed in some way. It is simply unacceptable that in this country we maintain differences in the payment of contributions that have accumulated over the years and that differences between individual statuses in the amount of payments are also 1:10, without any real basis as to why these differences exist. There is a false solidarity between those who are regularly employed in public services and are burdened with all contributions, with those who have other statuses and in all ways seek solutions to avoid balancing their payments with other categories of users. I am therefore interested in this regard, given that this intervention of the law is deferred: What do you expect this year's harvest of the intervention law, given that we know that the implementation of the law itself will also take time for administrative procedures and so on? The other thing I'm interested in is: When can we expect a system law to settle these issues? To what extent is it considered when it comes to burdening contributions, solely on income from work or on broader grounds than this intervention law has thought? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you. The Minister will give an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you. If we exclude dividends and rents, as in the current proposal that will go to the government, we speak about 50 million at the annual level, which is significantly less than we expected. It is, however, the subject of the continuation of this debate on the contribution rates in the system law, which we have somehow committed ourselves to in the national reform programme, which was sent to Brussels, to be under public scrutiny by the end of the year. It was carried out, as you know, by an international conference. Given that there are very many different ideas in this area of health financing, the views on competition between insurance companies and the like, I think that we have now agreed on these views to this extent that we will now draw up a shorter strategy in October, and on this basis also the proposal of the law, so that it would not then be the same as it is all the time, which in fact in health is a huge problem, that the views on solving these problems are very different and knowledge is relatively weak, which often turns out to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thanks for the answer. I hereby conclude this question. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members, the first round of today's meeting. Mag. Andrej Shircelj will ask the finance minister Dr. Uros Chufer. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! During the summer, the Slovenian public, Slovenian entrepreneurs and real estate taxation farmers, namely, the tax on all properties, were also taxed by farmers, entrepreneurs. During this period, there have also been uncoordinated proposals with other ministries, with the Minister of Agriculture, I think also with the Minister of Economy. In short, there were many proposals for laws in the public that were not known who was behind them, whether the government or one minister or another minister was behind them, and there were many excuses for one another. The taxation of real estate is extremely important, especially due to the forecast. by which real estates are to be taxed much more than they are now, and as this government mainly increases taxes, value added tax, income, corporate income tax and so on. That's why I'm interested, Minister: What will this law be, it is said, from what tax will be paid, either from farms or from agricultural areas, forests, meadows. Will production capacity, real estate used for production also be taxed? Will business premises, production premises, storage facilities be taxed? What will be the tax base in view of the constant talk about this and also the constant decline in real estate values and, as a result, the GURS records can be very problematic? The property prices are projected to fall. I'm interested in the calculations: What will be the impact of this tax on poverty in Slovenia? How will tax pay those with minimum wages, farmers with only occasional income? In what way will you prevent this tax from occurring if the Tax Administration or the State takes over part of the property if the tax is not paid? This actually means a new nationalisation. What will be the possibility that people will be able to pay this tax on the basis of the actual income they have?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you. Dr. Urosh Chufer, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much for that question. In the few minutes that I have at my disposal, it is essentially too small for me to present this law in such detail as has been asked in detail, especially in the light of a large number of questions. What might be highlighted is that this law is still in the preparatory phase. When we started the process of this law and put it in public, there were relatively many comments, I think we received over 300. We have re-examined, reviewed, edited and prepared a revised version of this tax over the summer, in which we wanted to actually pursue still the same goals as we actually set ourselves at the beginning. At the same time, we also wanted to address most of those problematic issues that were in law, some disproportionate and emerging issues. The recast of the bill we have drawn up, we have also recently presented, put it back into public debate, and we are also now sitting with some stakeholders and looking at individual issues, and even in the future, when there are major inconsistencies, illogicality or injustices, we will try to eliminate them as much as possible. However, I think that I would present the law in detail with all these details at a time when it will also be forwarded to the National Assembly, because that will also be the time for all technical elements to be presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The request to complete the answer is mag. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u75	Actually, Minister, I didn't get the answer, and the Slovenian public didn't get the answer, either, to any of the questions. This isn't about any details. It is about what the amount of tax will be, what the tax base will be, how it will be charged, who will pay it, whether it will also be paid from farms, from economic premises on farms, or whether it will also be paid from production, in fact from the real estate used for production, and what the amount of that tax will be, in particular, for those who do not actually have enough to buy basic necessities today, let alone pay three times the tax that is actually being raised, and who actually says that. After all, the public should be calm about this, upset. Mr Akrapovič announced in July the suspension of the investment in Montenegro, whether or not due to this tax. Which, of course, means that there are no new investments, because it does not really know how the government will act, what it will prepare and what measures it will actually propose for adoption and then also for approval. This law or this tax is actually very problematic to introduce at a time when the price of real estate is falling, when we do not know how much it will actually fall. The GURS data on this are incorrect. They don't show real property values. And one more thing. If the production halls, including companies with this tax, are also taxed, they will be able to pay twice this tax and in fact have less money and they will become bankrupt faster. I actually want an answer so the public won't be as upset as it was, because the government communicated in a way [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer? Dr. Urosh Chufer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Maybe a few basic elements. As far as the tax base is concerned, this law is designed so that the tax base is as wide as possible. This is also something that the professional public supports, in fact, to make the law effective, general and, in fact, infrastructure. The second important thing is that this tax takes account of the data source. This is the GURS database, which, in fact, already includes a reduction in the property value that has occurred recently, of 17 % on average. As far as possible weaknesses in the database are concerned, we have set up two elements in the new proposal for a law that actually protects taxpayers in the sense that they should obtain an informational calculation by the GURS, both on the value of the property and on the tax itself. And the second part that we have done is that we have completed the law by allowing for a claim to the value of the property on the DURS following a decision, which means that it is not only possible to complain about the amount of the tax but also the value of the property itself. There have been quite a few of these elements that you mentioned, which have already been taken into account, have already been excluded in the first phase of the public debate, and the interested public knows that the law is actually publicly available at the second amended stage in order to be able to look at it and, if necessary, also send a further question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Shircelj has a procedural matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u79	Of course you do. I don't think either me or the public just met. Indeed, it is necessary to determine what impact this tax will have on the social situation of the people. Historically, property in this country was built in a slightly different way than in other countries. In the 1960s, 70 ’ s, 80 ’ s, there was a lot of construction when people built it themselves. And today the value of real estate does not reflect the income situation of people. Therefore, it is also necessary to introduce into this law social categories that certain real estate owners or property owners cannot be taxed or taxed. If the minister says the tax base is broad, the tax base is wide, that is, in other words, that all real estate will be taxed. The broadest tax base is the taxation of all real estates, including agricultural areas, including production halls, including those property that people need for activity. That's how I understand it, and of course that means tax, which means more bankruptcy, means more people on the road, more unemployed. In this case, if we are talking about real estate tax, the tax will actually affect the social situation of people. And given that we have to take a responsible view of the new taxes, that we must take a responsible view of the people who will pay taxes, I propose that the Minister's response be discussed at the next meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 24 September, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jakob Presečnik will continue to raise questions about the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel, and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Above all, I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space. I expect, however, that the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for any amendment to the Regulation, I am talking about the Regulation supplementing the Regulation on toll roads and tolls, and I believe that, in this Regulation, which was adopted, I do not think, on 12 September, that what actually happened by this Regulation has been highlighted. By this Regulation, you have raised tolls for certain combined vehicles and especially for those also used by families with multiple children that this is a so-called family vehicle. Such an increase in vignettes for such vehicles is, of course, discriminatory to other families. After all, combined vehicles, larger passenger transport vehicles also use various establishments, other civil society organisations, humanitarian societies, sports companies and clubs, smaller entrepreneurs and so on. I am convinced that the decision to increase prices is anti-social, anti-combination, anti-social and therefore contrary to public interest, which should further protect such vulnerable groups. It is somehow clear that tracking, especially large families, is significantly more burdensome than other social groups, so they certainly cannot bear further burdens. I'm asking you: Will you propose to the Government to amend the Toll and Toll Regulation, taking into account the fact that combined vehicles as personal vehicles use these vulnerable groups of citizens and thus prevent the growing sense that the Republic of Slovenia is becoming an unfriendly country for people with disabilities and families? Or at least, if you don't think it's such a thing that it wouldn't come to that feeling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u82	Minister only Omerzel, I give you my word for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u83	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr President, thank you for the question. First of all, I'd like to explain why we've come up with the whole concept of toll restoration. As far as Dars' financial sustainability is concerned, there was a key reason why we did the whole renovation. During the following year, Darsa falls to 365 million Euros, a year later to 245 million Euros, then we rise again to 275 million and so to 300, and then the liabilities slowly fall again. Dars is, under the current scheme, able to service up to a maximum of EUR 110 to 120 million a year. This will enable Dars to programme programmes and long-term financial sustainability and thus, of course, a complete scheme and a complex concept of our motorways. In the introduction of a new wine for combined vehicles, we have consulted a wider area of experts, and I must say that as far as the response to the additional wine in this class is concerned, it has indeed been a rather positive response. The arguments were as follows. On our roads, we see an extremely large number of foreign vans, especially Romanian and Bulgarian registrations, which are in transit across Slovenia, and it is particularly important that we deal with environmentally more controversial vehicles in these vans, so this was one argument of why this class was of particular importance. However, the second segment within the industries or carriers themselves, which was equally important, is that in some ways those who use vans for transport do not put themselves in a better position to be in some way unfair competitors in truck transport. As for the very price of guilt associated with disabled people and families with multiple children. That's the part that we're going to save or we're going to save. One matter is extremely important in this matter. We must be aware that if we refer to each group with a discount for each class, then we are discriminatory to the rest of Europe. In particular, this would mean that if we give a discount to families with multiple children in Slovenia, an identical discount should also be given to families from Romania or Germany. That is why we are aware of this issue, and we have had quite a few discussions with the District Minister on this subject. We do not want to see the situation of families with more children in any way that we do not understand or want to understand the situation of disabled people and similar groups. However, we would not want to react immediately and to address the problem in a non-systemic way. That is why I think it is right for us to consult with the Secretary-General, look together for a solution and come up with a system solution that will be just and right for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you. I also give the floor to Dr. Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. My colleague already said we're looking for a solution together. Unfortunately, the Government came after an unusual procedure, so that it was not possible to comment on this in the process of adopting the Ministry of Labour. We would certainly warn that the situation of large families and, above all, of disabled persons is to be protected, as already in legislation with various measures is protected. For example, large families, in addition to higher tax benefits for third and subsequent children, also have an allowance for large families. However, such families are also entitled to reimbursement of the tax on motor vehicles and pay a lower annual levy on the use of vehicles in road transport, amounting to 50% of the annual passenger car duty. So we already have measures in different sectoral policies that lower costs for families with multiple children who also face them. I believe that we will find some common solution that will be in the field of dealing with them in the way they are being dealt with and that we will not discriminate against other citizens within the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. President, a complement to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you both for your answer. So I will say, in confidence and in hope that you will also find a suitable solution for the categories of families and other users of Slovenian motorways, that you will find a suitable and fair solution, that is to say, by taking into account all the facts that you have also mentioned, in this hope I will not make a wish for a complementary response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you very much. So we're done with this question. We turn to the next question put by Mr Dragan Bosic, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you. Nice to meet you. The reason for my question is children's health, I think it's a very important topic that is worthy of one question to the Minister, in connection with a press conference that was 17. 9. if I am not mistaken about where the evaluation of the Healthy Lifestyle programme was discussed. There I found some things that give me hope and some problems that I would like to ask you. Prof. Janko Strel expressed or demonstrated in his evaluation all the benefits of the project, which has been going on since 2010, linked to a third of primary school children, about 27,000 children, which is great. The thing that worries me, however, is the fact that it has also been pointed out that activities are mainly attended by younger children, and in the last triad we are actually losing them for these or those reasons. I agree with the fact that this project or programme, as we call it, is trying to fill some gaps that have become a market category since independence. This means that the sports activity of children is one paying segment, and those who can afford it can then also count on their health being upgraded or maintained, and one large segment of the children falling out of it. I am so much more respectful of the activity of teachers, especially sports teachers, who are prepared, who voluntarily implement these programmes and in this way create references for integration into the system. But once again, I feel that these two extra hours of sports education are commendable, but I am concerned about those who fall out of this system. I want to know: What activities do you plan in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dr. Pickalo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u91	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member. Thank you very much for that question. I am really glad that we can also talk about such a successful project as Healthy Lifestyle in this high choir. As you yourself said, about 33% of all students are involved in this project. It's about funding 150 teachers through this project. And most importantly, in our primary school, children usually have three hours of physical education per week. This project provides a healthy lifestyle for an additional two hours. I agree with you that this is a very good project, which, in the four years since which it has been running, has gained not only a lot of public affection, but shows very concrete results that show in children's health. Now for your concern. I think your concerns are at the same time our concerns. I agree with you that something happens in the last triad of elementary school, that the number of those involved in this project is beginning to fall. We somehow identify them in three groups. The first group is that in the lower grades of primary school children mostly use extended stay, allowing them to stay longer in school. And since they're longer in school, they also have this kind of sports education. That's one. While it's not in the upper classes and they're going home on their own. Secondly, in our opinion, the project is not yet implemented long enough to be so rooted in the curriculum or generally in school activities. That is why we believe that when the project is implemented long enough, there will also be greater awareness in schools. And since there will be greater awareness, we hope that in the last triad more children will join. And the third, purely on an individual level, for the same reason, because we have not yet carried out it for 8 years, and those involved in it in the first four years have not yet come into the third triad, is also the reason that we may be involved in this programme. However, we believe that when, and if, and of course, we plan to continue with this project, once the whole vertical of the primary school is over, the matter will then, we plan, also a higher involvement in the last triad. Above all, what is most important is that parents, children and all the other stakeholders will see and see that movement is what gives a healthy life, a healthy lifestyle, and that pressure or encouragement will be the one that will in some way encourage students to join this project in the last triad. Otherwise, it's not just the last triad that's the problem. We also note that there are a few more girls than boys. This is something that we also need to correct or at least try to correct. We also note that regional implementation is not exactly the same. In some places where there is traditionally strong sports activity, for example, there is also a slightly better implementation of the Healthy Lifestyle project. However, we have regions where they have done a lot on the subject of infrastructure, but they do not have such strong programmes, or they do not have such a strong tradition of sports participation, and that is why this Health Lifestyle project may be a little less alive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u93	That's a good answer, but there's one thing that bothers me. The coordinator of this programme, Mr Gross, said that until it was mandatory, he could not force anyone. In fact, this style formulation doesn't go together. This means that if a healthy lifestyle develops, this element of coercion and obligation. And I want to know: Whether you intend to expand this activity or to link it with the Ministry of Health, the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Agriculture, where you would find common ground. Remember the project Healthy Slovenian Breakfast, which was a unique event. If you become a permanent practice, you see it in this program A healthy lifestyle as something welcome for health as well. Now we wouldn't go into some definition of WHO, what it is, but pass it on as a commitment to the school system, it seems to me a bit of an unfortunate option, and then this element of coercion. That's why I want to know: Are you also thinking about expanding outside the institution? You were talking about using infrastructure, public areas. Are there thoughts in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Would you like another word, Dr. Pikalo? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much for this thought. Of course, I would not like to comment on Mr Gross's statement now, but as far as I recall this press conference, it went primarily in the direction, which was at the beginning of the plan, that this would not be just a project after the project's time, but that it would slowly move on to integral resources and then this would be part of the regular curriculum. Then it's possible to talk about coercion, in a way force. But in this public financial situation, as we are now, unfortunately we cannot do it this way. However, we have found additional funds from the so-called "overcomment" so that before starting the new perspective for next year, we still have money, so we have allocated additional money for this project Healthy Lifestyle. Then we expect to continue it in the next financial perspective. As far as our cooperation with other ministries or other departments is concerned, I accept this initiative. I think that we have already worked with the Ministry of Health or health services in particular, but it is time, and I agree with you, that even with the new financial perspective and with the review and evaluation that we are doing everything through, we could go into the story with other ministries, in short, with everything that contributes to a healthy lifestyle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Secretary! According to the definition of the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, financial social assistance is a social security benefit that provides the beneficiary with the means to meet its minimum living needs. It is intended for those individuals and individuals who cannot provide themselves with material security due to circumstances they cannot influence themselves. The decline of many businesses and the loss of a large number of jobs has led many people without their guilt to the unemployed, who, despite their active search for employment, have not found employment or are only for a short period of time. Due to the increasing unemployment rate and also due to the current situation, I can say that the long-term economic and financial crisis has not led many to receive regular or at least longer employment after several years. After the end of unemployment benefits, financial social assistance is the only income that allows the unemployed to literally survive themselves and often their children and their family members. The amount of the monthly financial assistance shall be EUR 265.22 from 1 August 2013. That amount shall not guarantee the beneficiaries of their basic survival. According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the minimum cost of living is more than two times the amount of monetary social assistance. This is how monetary social assistance does not achieve its basic purpose, namely to provide resources to meet the minimum lives of the beneficiaries' needs. Under the poverty threshold, almost 400,000 people live in Slovenia and poverty is particularly affected by too low social transfers. Madam Minister, I ask you: Will the proposed amendment of the law on the exercise of rights from public funds already increase the amount of monthly financial social assistance to the level that will actually ensure that beneficiaries are covered by their most basic cost of living? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Copacz Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mrs. Dimic. Of course, the amount you mentioned is the amount of the basic minimum income of EUR 265 since August. It is one of the rare incomes that is still aligned with inflation in Slovenia, which is, of course, right, and this basic minimum income is a condition for the calculation of monetary social assistance received by an individual or a family. The calculations that were made in 2009 and were the basis indicated that this basic minimum income should be higher. It was estimated at EUR 288,81. Unfortunately, due to the intervention law and then the Public Finance Balance Act, this amount remained at €260 and was harmonised to €265 this year. This is certainly not the kind of value that we all would like in this Chamber, and also all citizens and citizens, but given the state in which the country is, it is difficult to expect an immediate rise. However, it is also necessary to bear in mind the various money benefits that citizens have, for example, EUR 265 is the basic minimum income, while the minimum value is the minimum value, the minimum value of the EUR 350 monetary compensation, which is the right to social security and on the basis of which people, citizens and citizens, workers and workers have paid contributions. At the same time, unfortunately, it must be said that the level of the minimum wage is also below €606. At present, the net value is around EUR 564. So all of these values are unfortunately below €606, and this certainly points to the state in which we are. However, it is, of course, necessary to see the rise of individual values fully. Because that means that if we raised that, what would that mean to the cash refund and even to the minimum wage. All these benefits are strongly linked in our country. In any case, we would like everyone more, everyone better, more income to have, individuals and individuals. But all of this depends primarily on the economy, especially on the added value we create in the economy. This way we can have a higher minimum wage and then even higher social transfers. However, with the most urgent changes to social legislation, we will in particular make life easier for single parents and large families. A number of significant changes are foreseen. If I mention just a few. A raise in minimum income for another adult in the family will be raised from 0.5 to 0.6 of the basic amount of minimum income. We will give the possibility of granting exceptional monetary social assistance to beneficiaries of a protective allowance, and we will extend the range of beneficiaries to an employment allowance. We will implement a more favourable way of taking account of student income. We will increase the child allowance in the case of single parent families from 0.1 to 0.2 of the basic minimum income. Then 20 % of the child allowance will be excluded from income taken into account in families in calculating all other benefits, we will increase the savings margin that exclude the family from obtaining cash social assistance or a social allowance and, above all, a very important thing, introduce the possibility of free emphasis on social work centres in relation to taking into account property that customers cannot afford. So that where people are actually unable to afford it, social work centres should have a discretionary right to decide whether or not to take this into account in income. However, the most important change is that in the case of receipts, transfers such as children's allowance, state scholarships, grants for kindergartens, it will not be the same as it was now, to take into account past incomes or even half-lives, but the possibility that people will also have to invest during the year if there is a change in their type of income. This law will be before you. You'll be the judge of that. At the Ministry, we have tried in the given financial capabilities, you know what the state is like, to look for those necessary increases in order to make it easier for citizens and citizens to survive. In any case, we may want to make a further change.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thanks again. I could only, in the second part, specifically warn about financial social assistance, which, except in the case of permanent unemployment or permanent incapacity of the beneficiary for work, is recognised for a shorter period of between three and a maximum of one year. However, I would point to the practice, to the circumstances in which we live and to which we Members are reminded that many times there is a situation in which the beneficiary, without his own fault, cannot make an application for financial social assistance in a timely manner without any means of self-sustainment. These are cases of illness or injury to recipients of financial social assistance when their stay in hospitals or other institutions is necessary. Due to the time-consuming submission of the application, the beneficiary of financial social assistance remains without any means of living and costs arise. This is primarily the cost of renting and running costs of housing, as well as the cost of medicines and medical devices. We also note that there is an increasing frequency of court proceedings for the termination of the lease and, as a result, the distribution of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance due to the irregular payment of rents, which are due to very objective reasons. I ask you, Madam Minister: In the planned amendments to the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, will you introduce an automatic extension of the period of receipt of financial social assistance if the situation of the beneficiary has not changed and the applicant will not have to re-enter the entire application every time? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u103	In fact, monetary social assistance is taken into account in the light of your current situation. And when it comes to applicants, where the social work centre can assess that there will be no improvement in their situation, it is not only for three months, but it can be given for six months. However, it must certainly be because this transfer, which is about the current situation of an individual, is a renewed role. We have another type of rights, such as a children's allowance, which is measured for one year. However, monetary social assistance is so specific, it is the last in line, if I say so, within the social assistance system of remuneration, which one must always justify again in order to be able to receive it. Of course, there are certain guardians and I, of course, in cases where an individual is unable to submit because of illness or other matters, I believe that it is possible to agree at social centres and that such performances can be announced earlier and that it can be agreed otherwise than by amending the law on such changes within the framework of work at social work centres. The changes will not go in the direction that just for a year, two or three people can obtain financial social assistance because this would be contrary to the logic of monetary social assistance. Of course, such a benefit is a protective allowance, which is for older people who are already unable to work, and these are not expected to change the situation, so the protective allowance is given for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr. Pikalu.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, dear Minister! The question I am asking you today is not my first question on the subject of school infrastructure. As early as January 2010, I raised a question raised by a special event at the time, which was with the exhibition Modern School Architecture and the International Conference at the same time. However, some external events are still the same as they were back then. And since the answer I received in March 2010 is also a few facts, I have decided to repeat this question. However, it is possible to perceive comments and praises on the image and performance of school infrastructure at different events. We cannot exactly boast that we have enriched Slovenian architecture with a well-designed space with many higher education buildings. I think we have quite a few more debts here on this account, especially three colleges. We are more interested in those things that are part of the mandatory task of the country, which must provide spaces for compulsory primary school, for secondary education and, of course, for kindergartens. A good part of all of this is also in the domain of the municipality, but what has been observed lately is that it is often the remodeling of the school space because it is mainly about energy rehabilitation and less about school space adapting to the requirements of new learning content. This might suggest thinking about what I asked you: How does the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, in fact, include architectural proposals for investments in Slovenian school infrastructure? I am, of course, interested in the part that is not only aesthetically conditioned and school buildings mean a noticeable enrichment of the cultural landscape, but also: How are architectural solutions included in content solutions and space management in this segment? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member! I'll say so. There are two things about putting into space or architectural solutions. One thing that seems important to me about what our Directorate of Investment is doing, which is largely responsible for this part of the school infrastructure, as you yourself have found, in connection with the municipalities, is that we have made a shift from just dealing with funding to consulting. Sometimes investing advice is extremely important. And secondly, we are trying to take into account not only the recommendations but also the commitments we have with regard to the placement of facilities in the space and also the aesthetic standards that are supposed to apply here. I always say that we are moving somewhere between beauty, utility, ergonomics, economy, functionality and sustainability. In any case, we take into account all the knowledge of the profession, we regularly use public architectural competitions. Not only for certain objects, you know cases such as two campuses at the University of Primorsk, Livada, Sun and so on. Then the public architectural competition was also held for the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology and the Faculty of Computer Science and Computer Science, so we serve and we want to continue to work well with the architects. In doing so, I think I should put my cooperation in particular with the Chamber of Architecture and Space. We also work very well with them, because they are those who are authorized to organise public competitions from the architectural field and I also think that we are doing well and joining your concerns, and at the same time, if I have understood correctly that our school premises would not only be functional, but that they would also be beautiful and that they would follow all the latest advances in architecture, including the internal arrangements of space, the needs for learning functionality and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Here you go, mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer. When we talk about aesthetics, we risk that we will not all have the same view of what we see, I think of the last acquisition, this is the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor, which is the result of the architectural size of Podreka, but the judgment about this building can be very different. For a long time, I was working on a single faculty of education, which, due to its breakdown into several colleges, also had to adapt within this little thing, and it was also a building that had a special performance award. But I would remind you, in this second question, in the supplementary question, of that part of the answer that Dr. Lukšič gave me at the time when he announced that the Ministry would first review the situation that exists in the school field. The question is that the Ministry advises when the investment is planned. The question is whether an analysis is made of the entire Slovenian school space and also the conclusion of all the needs that exist in Slovenia. I know that the demographic picture can change, for example, in the Old Village, they said that there can be no new school because there is a new school in the Razkrižje, but now there is a new one in the Stručnja village and such small examples from the environment could be cited. So I'm asking: Is the status check done? Thank you very much for that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much, again. I'll be very direct. To know that such an analysis was made for the whole of Slovenia, no. We do, and we deal with it daily, some examples, perhaps also architecturally, perhaps not the best-saved primary or secondary schools that belong to our direct responsibility, and we need to deal with this. As people get older, buildings get old, and aging shows up, and that's where we're solving this. So for individual cases, yes, to be a complete analysis, no. Anyway, thanks for your initiative, I'll ask you very carefully what's going on. But as for that building over there next to Drava, I know you're the host, I'm not, but personally, I have to say that Professor Podreka's explanation at the event convinced me, because he has a deeper view of how the building is placed in that space. I have to say that I have already been in that building twice or three times, if I count it right, including the previous Wednesday, and as a study space and as a laboratory space, and so on, it seems to me that students will have exceptional working conditions, including the library is extremely innovatively saved. From the outside, it's a matter of taste and aesthetic criteria, but given the placement and all the philosophy in the back, I must say that Professor Podreka convinced me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak has a question for the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Kopač Mrakovo.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u113	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Coordination on pension reform has been relatively difficult, the interests of public finances, employers and workers have been intertwined many times, and in the end we have managed to agree on a compromise, which has also been confirmed in this House unanimously. This means that it is appropriate to respect the agreed procedure. In addition, in these coordinations and even in the end, the result was, in some ways, a lot of times in the media, in my opinion unjustifiablely, exposed to the obvious, that we were disproportionately giving in to trade unions to employers and so on. One of the very important requirements of employers was to revise the criteria and criteria for paying professional insurance contributions. In particular, occupational insurance is paid for either those jobs that are harmful to health or cannot be carried out practically even in retirement years, or those are occupations where it is necessary to finish early, i.e. those that are so-called old-fashioned, occupations, and therefore this occupational insurance is paid only for those where, on the basis of criteria and criteria, there are actually reasons for this. Of course, professional and, last but not least, technological development has progressed, so those jobs that may have been harmful during the course of health 10, 20 years ago are no longer among them. It is therefore appropriate to continuously update the list of jobs, of course on the basis of clear criteria and criteria in which jobs belong. In Article 413, we agreed that the Government, of course on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and on the basis of coordination with the social partners, proposes criteria and criteria for the new classification of jobs for which employers are obliged to pay insurance, i.e. professional insurance. Today is September 2013, which is a good 8 months from the entry into force of the law, but these criteria and criteria are not available. There are no consequences, there are real new job classifications and it is very clear that this article of the Act is not being respected. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Labour: Why the Government has so far not adopted a regulation to classify or enforce the criteria and criteria for these jobs, as well as the way and financing of job lists for employers to pay compulsory occupational insurance. So the Minister: Why isn't this regulation here yet?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mr Mag. A visor. It may initially be that, as you well know, PIZ-2 has completely transformed former compulsory supplementary pension insurance into occupational insurance, not only in terms of designation, but also, in particular, in terms of the content and level of rights and the conditions for obtaining this right. In this regard, it should be stressed that ZPIZ-2, regardless of whether it has been coordinated with the social partners or perhaps precisely because of this, has left a number of open issues on these rights, which are crucial for the preparation and adoption of the first important thing, this is a pension plan. Only after the pension plan has received a positive opinion on the Economic and Social Council will the ministry be able to approve it and the pension plan will be implemented. And only after this is done will the insured be able to retire professionally and thereby gain the right to a professional pension. Therefore, it is also crucial, in agreement with the social partners, that the pension plan itself be adopted first and that a professional pension be granted to that insured person, which is the basic purpose of professional insurance. With regard to this, I inform you that I called on the social partners to appoint a working group of the Economic and Social Council immediately after the end of my term of office, and this spring started with work. So as soon as I got my term, I did. For the first time, the task of the working group is to draw up a pension plan, secondly, a list of jobs and thirdly, criteria and criteria for the establishment of jobs. The working group, as agreed together, will first draw up a pension plan, expected by the end of this month. I think it's urgent. It will then immediately complete the establishment of a list of jobs and a regulation on the criteria and criteria for the identification of jobs where inclusion in occupational insurance is required. With regard to the regulation on criteria and criteria, I would also like to point out that the revision of the list of jobs on which the compulsory inclusion in occupational insurance is made has been for more than 20 years, showing how difficult the material is. And perhaps when you have pointed out how difficult or difficult it is to coordinate with the social partners, you are aware of how difficult this matter is now and, above all, that, according to the article you mentioned, it is necessary for the social partners to agree on the criteria and criteria. The deadline set, 6 months, according to all these facts, is too short. However, we are certainly doing everything in the direction that this will be completed as soon as possible. With regard to the review of jobs where it is compulsory to include in professional insurance in the public sector, I would like to point out that these are provided for by law. Public sector activities are already under way within the Ministry of Interior and Public Administration. We cooperate, we help, but these are certainly very important issues. Finally, at this point in time, according to the opinion of the social partners, it is indeed crucial to adopt a pension plan and, on the basis of the new law, we will also determine, on the basis of this Regulation, the criteria and criteria set out in agreement with the social partners, which will then also be the basis for examining which jobs are, therefore, those for which the contribution will be paid and for which it is not. Of course, I agree with you that this is a very important measure in the economic situation we are in, and the working groups are working with all their strength in this direction, so that this can happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u116	Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u117	Yes, first of all, if you want to continue to negotiate successfully with the social partners, it is important that the word is kept. The word was given, and it was written in law, that this act of law would be prepared within six months. It's been more than eight months now. There's no such thing as a submarital act. Employers are therefore justifiably outraged because you are also charging them with these delays costs that they might not have suffered. With all the increases in taxes in this country, with a different relatively large reluctance to the employer's side, this is just another symbolic supplement, which proves that, in fact, where there is nothing left, you do not go against expectations of lowering unnecessary costs, because for a number of jobs, contributions to professional insurance are being paid, although the job because of technological progress is already far from being part of this group. Of course, there was no agreement for 20 or more years because there was no interest. There is no interest on either side, but at least on the Kada page, which successfully collects this money and solves its problems. Dear Minister, you said that six months ago, that is to say, right after the performance, you formed a working committee that has not even taken the first step, a pension plan, not just to start coordinating it with the social partners. So I appeal to you, also because we have reached this agreement, so that these efforts will speed up and you will also reach it as soon as possible. But believe me, I will remind you of this in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u119	I don't doubt that, and that's the way it is. I would just like to point out once again that, in accordance with the provisions of Article STIZ, there is a need for the consent of the social partners. So it is not only a matter of the Ministry to draw up these criteria and criteria, but all the social partners within the working group that has been appointed must agree on this. This is one of the very important provisions of the law, I agree, but in view of this agreement, as it is, we must reach agreement of all, so that it is likely that we will be able to negotiate at the Ministry, but we must reach agreement of all the partners, and it is not at all a matter of delaying the government that the government or the government department would not want that. The pension plan is before the SODPZ, I think, before the last reading, but it is not for the working group not to harmonise it already, before the final confirmation under the SODPZ, which is also the first to confirm the pension plan, to which the Ministry of State will then give its consent and thus enter into force. But I can certainly assure you that the social partners are all trying to do this because we agree that what is written is. respect must be given, so that activities are carried out, I can assure you that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hočevar will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Pikalu.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Nice to meet you again. The largest increase in youth unemployment throughout the European Union was recorded in Slovenia in 2012. Practically daily, we meet personally or through the media and are familiar with the uncertainty of Slovenian youth. Experts also warn us of the appearance of the so-called brain drain. Although young people are disappointed with the environment in our country, there is no denying the Government's sincere interest in improving their situation. A public debate was held last week in this National Assembly on the presentation of opinions on the resolution of the National Youth Programme 2013-2020. While the resolution is prepared with a one-year delay under the Law on Public Interest in the Youth Sector, it has as many as 122 pages. What I'm interested in is: How will you ensure that this resolution will not be just a new pile of dead letters on paper? The resolution must be followed by an appropriate implementation plan. How will you ensure its horizontal treatment and the active inclusion of other resources? How will you ensure that this implementation plan also actually ensures a better position for young people in both education and the labour market and living conditions? As the competent Minister for Youth, I ask you this question: What optimistic and concrete offer do you offer to young people who do not want to be part of the problem but who want to be part of the solution? How will you actually include them in the preparation of this implementation plan? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Here's the minister, Dr. Pickalo.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u123	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member. Last week we were here in Parliament, in this high assembly, and we wanted to give a special message in addition to all the debates that took place here. And this was that youth policy, that is to say, measures to work with young people, are being raised to the highest possible level. We have done this as a conclusion to something that we have not yet done with any national programme, at least as far as our department is concerned. And it is that for two months during our summer vacations we carried out a field campaign through regional centres, that we tried to give a message to all those interested in this topic, to all the media and so on, about how important this matter is for the future of young people. If you want me to go to your very specific questions. For the last time in Parliament, I have made it very clear that, if this programme brings anything, it is that we will no longer discuss young people without young people. Whatever we do, not only the resolution on the national programme, but in general the level of political culture and policies requires us to involve young people as stakeholders in this process from now on. I think it's important. Importantly because of the fact that it will not happen, measures will be taken that will not be acceptable or even have an impact for young people. As far as the dead letters themselves are concerned, I think that's one part of the campaign, and the other part is called evaluation. If you carefully read the resolution on the national programme, you will see that it has very clearly defined priorities, objectives, criteria and indicators. These priorities, objectives, criteria and indicators, as set out in the national programme, will be followed by an evaluation. For the time being, every three years in this national assembly and then in the form of a final report to this national assembly. Secondly, what is more important in terms of operationality is that within our existing institutions we will also set up an evaluation unit, as well as in the national programme, which will constantly monitor how well this programme is being implemented. And that's not just a dead letter on paper. Secondly, as regards the horizontal treatment itself and the active inclusion of other resources. I think that by the time we adopted this national programme in the government, this has become a government. So this means that all the resources, and it took quite a bit of coordination until then, but all the departments now know very precisely what their task is and what we will do about it in the years to come. We work with different carriers. The national programme clearly identifies the operators of individual tasks. Again, the task, now in the slogans, will be our office, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, in order to technically and on the other hand to coordinate all these activities. And that's important. In short, competent ministries, other stakeholders, Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth. As far as the implementation plans are concerned, I would like to say that as soon as the national programme is adopted in this High Council, we will proceed to the implementation plans. Again, it has been promised to all youth organisations with one or the other interest in this area to participate in the preparation of these implementation plans and to prepare these implementation plans within the next three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u124	Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, thank you very much for this part of the answer. I really want and hope that this implementation plan will be inter-sectorally coordinated and prepared within this promised three-month period. I think that you have also committed yourself to meeting this deadline in a public presentation of opinions. As you yourself have said, the evaluation and horizontal cooperation of these measures are important. I want to know: Is the Youth Office, which you also mentioned, adequately strengthened to carry out this important task? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Yeah, I think it's because it's not just the Youth Office in this story, but, like I said, the story about evaluation is wider. Like other public services or other authorities, the public authorities in some way share what they would call the good and bad of the other authorities. We are trying to strengthen or equip him adequately so that the national youth programme can be implemented. But they are, and I think everyone in this country understands now, the restrictions on this and we cannot go beyond the dimensions we have set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has a question for the Minister for Infrastructure and the premises of Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u129	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister of Infrastructure and Space, first of all, I apologize for the fact that there is a partial press scribbling in question and the year 2014 has fallen out. I know and I know that you know the Darsa issue well, and you may be able to give a part of the answer for 2014. More or less the entire Slovenian public knows Dars, says the Society for Motorways, as well as its obligations, which will be significant next year or the end of this year. However, since the financial problems of a level of about 400 million are not being resolved from today to tomorrow, it is necessary to approach this issue in a timely manner. Of course, we know the revenue side of Darsa, which collects just over €290 million from the tolls, with tolls, it will be a little more. This is said to improve its own return or capital base, and this will be a better traveller in obtaining better prudential terms for restructuring its credit liabilities. My question would be: How does the minister see the payment in the course of this year and also in the following year of Darsa's obligations, which we know is already partially successful in solving and reducing this obligation? What legal basis will it be necessary to accept that this programme will be as successful as possible to pay its financial obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Minister just Omerzel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u131	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr Žnidar, thank you for the question. True, not 2013, 2014, but there until 2030 I understand how Darsa's obligations go. This was one of the more important tasks I met with them immediately at the beginning of my term of office. Today, Dars has €2.77 billion in principal liabilities, which are also covered by the state guarantee. The very change in the pricing policy of tolling was mainly related to making Dars financially sustainable in the long term, not only because of Dars, but also because of this country. I think we all know what it would mean if Dars wasn't able to service his obligations and those payments would come under the burden of the state. In 2013, Dars has €110 million in liabilities, which is also a ranking that Dars is able to service at the annual level in the existing old system. So Dars would be able to service up to a maximum of €120 million on an annual basis after the current system. During 2014, Darsu will fall to 365 million euros in liabilities, next year 245 for 275, and we will rise again to almost 300 million euros in liabilities annually. From the point of view of today’s cash flow, Darsa is an absolutely unsustainable scheme and Dars would certainly not be able to finance. I must say, I am sorry that one of the governments before us has not acted in this area. Since 2004, it has been quite clear that in 2014 the first meal, which Dars has not been able to service under the current exposed scheme, has come to an end. With the system set up by the new price policy, Darsa's income has risen from a poor 300 million to a pessimistic scenario of €361 million and optimistic to €371 million. In fact, these revenues allow Dars to have a concrete and accurate dialogue with reprogramming banks, to extend this debt over the entire repayment period and thereby to establish a scheme where, according to its inflows, he will be able to settle all his obligations at annual level.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Would you like another word, Mr. Žnidar? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thanks for the answer. This is said to be really taking all these activities to keep Dars financially sustainable. And I'd like to ask: Is it expected that, for example, a roof guarantee law and other legislation will soon be on sent-off benches to mitigate this financially and allow for better conditions for Dars himself to borrow loans?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thanks for the extra question. I think that in these contexts where Dars currently operates, given these increased revenues, he has absolutely all the necessary parameters to negotiate sovereignly with banks, to operate a repurchase of credits and that he can also achieve better conditions in the long term, as far as interest rates are concerned. I think all these parameters are enough at this point to allow Dars to perform a self- and sovereignly complex re-credit program.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Minister for the answers. The next is Mrs Mateja Pučnik, who has a question for the Minister without a résor, responsible for Slovenians in place and around the world, Mrs Tina Komel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In the media, we can monitor that bilingual primary schools in Gornji Senik and Števanovci, which are the most important preservers of the Slovenian language in Przebje, are threatened by closure following changes in Hungarian legislation, especially in school legislation. The Slovenian language in Przebje in Hungary is slowly disappearing and is of crucial importance to the maintenance of the bilingual elementary school. The founders and school promoters in Hungary were up to the recent local self-government. Under the new Hungarian legislation, however, schools were to be taken directly by the State and national schools were to be given the opportunity to take over national national governments. Since last year's school year 2012/2013, these two schools, the National School, the National Slovenian Self-Government in Hungary and the new one are to be funded under school and not under minority law. There is obviously a problem here, as the school law provides for only one teacher per 13 students in the classroom, while minority legislation allows for the formation of a school class in minority schools with eight students. Slovenian pupils in these border areas are not enough for Hungarian standards, so these two schools will receive much less money than they need to work with 120 students. Madam Secretary, I ask you: What do you intend to do to ensure that the Slovenian language in Use does not disappear or by what concrete measures and activities will you help and ensure that the financial problems of these two schools in question are resolved and that these two schools remain open for instruction in Slovenian as well? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, thank you for asking. Currently, about 200 children attend 5 national kindergartens and two primary schools, as you mentioned, Gornji Senik and Števanovci, who are gradually introducing bilingual programs. Approximately 60 pupils attend Slovenian language classes in the remaining two primary schools, in Monoster only optionally. As previously stated, in May 2012 a contract was signed between the mayors of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Slovenia on the transfer of the management and management of bilingual schools in Use. In this way, the State or on its behalf, the State Government of Slovenia has taken over the obligation of systemic funding. Standards for minority education must be different from those of the majority people, taking into account some basic international standards in this area. It would be unacceptable to forgive teachers or to unite schools. In 2013, Hungary is expected to spend approximately €23,000 on the reconstruction and expansion of bilingual schools in Štjevanovci and approximately €33,000 on the renovation and upgrading of the headquarters of the National Slovenian Self-Government in Gornji Senik. It's the first phase of re-establishment. In both cases, the funds are promised, not committed. By 21 September, the competent authority had to prepare a new model of funding for nationalities and church schools, which would apply from the 2013/2014 school year, based on three elements: funding for teachers' salaries, support for school management, additional funding to cover the deficit. This is summed up by the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Budapest and talks with the Presidents of the Slovenian Government. In the field of nationalities schools, a standard of one teacher per 8 children will be proposed, while the proposed starting point for determining the level of support for school management will be 40 000 forint per student. The data show that two or four million forints would receive less funding after a quarter, which would amount to 24 million forints at the annual level. This amount will be provided by the State of Hungary from a third source – also for 2013, i.e. additional resources. These three elements of the new funding are intended to provide adequate funding for national schools. Following a discussion by the Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia in Budapest with the representative of the Ministry of Human Resources and after a discussion by the Office with the President of the National Government of Slovenia, it is ensured that Hungary will contribute or provide sufficient resources within its budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. The following is Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat with a question for Justice Minister Senko Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Council of Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! My question, as the Vice-President has already said, is addressed to Mr Plitsani, Minister for Justice. In these difficult times, when the Government is looking for money to patch up the budget gap and interfere with social transfers, pensions, minimum wages and so on, it is certainly necessary to do everything possible to collect taxes first and to do more in this area. Recently, I was surprised by the information or a message from the State Prosecutor's Office in Maribor that in practice there are few cases where someone in the court is prosecuted for tax evasion, despite the fact that individuals are withholding a tax of EUR 49 000 999 a month, even if they repeat it several times a year. This is said to be a continuing crime. The Penal Code deals with tax evasion in Article 249, which lays down penalties for offenders in the event of a tax evasion of a considerable amount of property benefit. This great wealth has been defined as equivalent to EUR 50 000 in this case. If someone's been doing tax evasion for months and, as I said before, less than 50,000 a month, it's not a continuing crime. And here's the problem. I therefore ask the distinguished Minister Plitsanič to answer the question: What will the Ministry do to normalize this matter or to treat it as a continuing crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Lulcanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the jury! Here I fully agree with you that effective tax recovery is one of the absolute priorities always, in every government it is, and in particular during the crisis. However, the recovery of taxes and, on the other hand, the sanctioning of those who commit an offence or a crime relating to taxes must be dealt with separately. When it comes to the first, tax recovery, as you know, is the responsibility of colleague Cuffer and the Ministry of Finance, here I think they are doing a great deal to make tax recovery even more effective than it is now, and to get as much revenue from this title into the state budget as possible. On the other hand, in order to sanction those who commit a tax offence or a crime, let me say that the actual limit between the offence and the crime is EUR 50,000. Therefore, if an offence related to taxes is worth, if I may say so, up to EUR 50,000, it is a crime, but it is a crime. Let me say that the regulation in Slovenia is this because when this amendment of the Penal Code was being prepared, the predecessors and those involved analysed comparative law, the experience of other countries, in particular those with whom we normally like to compare, for example, Austria is one where the threshold is similar, slightly higher, between 75 and 100,000 euros, and the standard is higher there. So that limit had to be set at some point. So it was necessary to draw the line between the offence and the crime, and then they decided that the limit was EUR 50,000. Let me also say that the infringement procedures, i.e. those procedures that go into action up to EUR 50,000, are even faster, but in particular, it is important in terms of the context in which you raised the question, namely, the patching of the budget hole or the increase in budgetary revenues, in fact, these criminal proceedings are "more interesting" because the sanction in these procedures is monetary. So the fine, the perpetrator has to pay some cash and it goes directly to the budget, so the "exploitation" from these procedures is also financial, so the budget is full, while in criminal proceedings, i.e. with those over 50,000 euros, the main sanction provided for by the law is imprisonment. If I somehow get confused and think here about this context that you have pointed out, that is, once again, filling the budget hole, in these procedures when it comes to crimes, the state budget has nothing to do with this, if we speak only from this point of view. But this is not the key and only aspect that we need to take into account as a government and a state. And let me say this: before this change was prepared, colleagues of the predecessors analysed the sanctioning of perpetrators of crimes, even before the change of EUR 50,000, and in these cases the main sanction was conditional punishment. If I sum up, we have a prison sentence, we have a probationary sentence before, but in the infringement proceedings we have a fine that goes directly to the budget. In terms of budget implementation, criminal procedures are more efficient, more profitable, in connotations. But it is true – and here your question also coincides with the findings of my professional services, which have found that this new regime, where the threshold of EUR 50,000 is said to be, can be questioned at two taxes, namely value added tax and motor vehicle tax, both of which are fixed as a monthly obligation. This is exactly the situation that you mentioned, Mrs Porotat pointed out, so at the proposal of the State Prosecutor's Office in Maribor, in cooperation with Dursa, colleagues in professional services began to study the appropriateness of the threshold of EUR 50 000 or we are looking for solutions that would also include certain types of taxes that are not fully covered by the current regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Minister for your answer. Would you like another word? Here you go, Mrs. Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary for that answer. I would just like to say this about the fact that the real offence is more favourable or more important for the patching of the budget hole, and from this point of view it is good to have it resolved. However, in view of the fact that inspectors do not detect all violations, it seems important to me that persecution in the Code of Penalties is a suitable threat in order to reduce the infringement. We will never discover everyone, nor will we all take into account the fact that this threat is recorded in the Penal Code, but I still think that if the Penal Code states that this further crime, it seems particularly important to me, I had in mind a tax evasion in the traffic of motor vehicles, where it happens that every month 49 thousand 999 and the second, third, fourth month and that this would be a threat, that it is a continuing crime and that it would reduce violations in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Minister, please continue to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u147	As we say, Mrs Porotat, here is your suggestion, your proposal entirely on the ground, because our professional services have also found this to be the same at these two taxes, one of these is on motor vehicles, because, as I mentioned earlier, it is a monthly obligation, and here in fact is the thought that such acts would become further offences and I think that these analyses are going in this direction and I will wait for them to bring me a proposal on the table. However, I thank you for the suggestion, which also coincides with the findings of our professional services.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chus will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Stan Stepichnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, three of you are here at the moment. I have decided to ask you one question, given that every week the government of Alenka Bratušek brings us new burdens, not only for the economy, but also for the households, I have decided to ask one question in the field of higher and new taxes. Over the last four years, the economy has lost more than 90 thousand jobs. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken quite a few decisions, contrary to the commitments made under the Coalition Treaty, which are making the economy even more or more burdensome. This year, around 2.5% of gross domestic product is forecast to fall. In such situations, the additional burden on the economy is extremely dangerous and also irresponsible. Not only for the economy, but also for public sector financing, social and health rights financing, jobs, thus living standards and the existence of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. Only to mention: higher value added tax, corporate income tax, cadastral income, real estate tax, the last such measure was also the promotion of annual vignettes, in short one pile of burdens that burden not only households, but every day of the economy. Although I'm quite young myself and I don't know everything, but if you're sitting with your hands crossed and supporting it, it would be difficult for me to call you Minister of Economy, but rather the Minister against the economy. That's why I want to know: What will be the consequences of the ever-increasing higher and new taxes imposed by your government on the Slovenian economy? Can we even talk about such high tax burdens and expect economic activity to start? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Stanko Stepišnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u151	Once again, I am the Minister of Economy, and I think I will remain the Minister of Economy, not against the economy. Today's situation is next. On the one hand, this public financial deficit is 3% or even more, with which we somehow provide a social state that we have public education, public health. On the other hand, we are actually creating or prescribing some new taxes that are contrary to economic growth. However, there is a need to survive this situation today. Surely the most important economic growth is because it is also crucial not least for the social state and in general for a better, quality life in Slovenia. If I repeat, remember, last year we talked a lot about saving. We have begun to insist that economic growth is needed, and Europe is now saying that economic growth is also needed in addition to maintenance. However, how to achieve economic growth is the next issue. The economic growth is determined by four stakeholders: private consumption, public consumption, exports and investments in fixed assets. If we are looking at Umar's predictions and all that we are doing today to keep the social state, to reduce expenditure on one side for the public, the social state, then private consumption is negative. For the second year too, Umar predicted negative private consumption as well as public consumption. However, this consumption affects about 60% of economic growth. Then we have investments and exports. Investments are also falling, and this year is likely to be slightly lower than last year, while what it insists on and works on is exports. Exports have increased slightly this year, we've heard that by 2.3%, which is positive. The number of unemployed also decreased by about 7 000 600, says we have about 116 thousand today. All trends are upwards today, but many of these indicators are still negative. The impact of taxes was the issue of economic growth. Yes, they certainly have a negative impact on economic growth and a positive impact on the maintenance of the social state. And around here, there's this line. I don't think we're going to introduce any new taxes this year except this property tax. A value added tax had been introduced which had a positive impact on exporters, had a negative impact on importers and on private consumption, unfortunately. But I think the value added tax is what encouraged the exporters. The second is a property tax, where it is a tax that replaces three taxes, which is a compensation for the use of building land, property tax and forest road taxes. I think the platform is very good with this property tax because it somehow burdens everything in Slovenia, from church to private, to business, to agriculture and so on. Of course, there is a big question now about tax rates. Our Minister, Mr Uros Chufer, we have heard earlier that this is still under discussion. The position or opinion of the economy is that the burden on the economy with the new tax must not be increased. And so it will be, although we need to know that in certain municipalities today the economic facilities had very low tax or had no compensation for the use of building land and some high land. However, since this new real estate tax is based on some average value, there will still be less tax payments when the tax is introduced or slightly more. However, the view is that this tax will not further affect the deterioration of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. A few days ago, you too, as a representative of the Government or its member, received a document prepared by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Crafts and Entrepreneurs and the Association of Managers. It was a document by Oxygen for the economy, which your client colleague and the president of the Committee on Economic Affairs referred to as a ministrand and wet dream of economists. This performance, I think, was worth all the judging. The government and your client have not been identified before that. I think we should criticize such performances. It is now possible for the economy to be run by politicians, not those who really know it. Let me summarise some of these proposals. They advocate, among other things, the tax burden on the economy and tax culture, as well as the promotion of development and competitiveness. So we can see that there are some contradictions here. The policy of the government of Alenka Bratušek is also based on various non-refundable incentives and funds, which are very short-term in nature. We have a 6-, 12- or 18-month period when we have this relief, and then we go back to an environment that's not nice, and there are high taxes and problems here again. I want to know: Will you also, as Minister, advocate for any more innovative measures for economic growth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you so much for asking. We analyzed about 3 000500 companies in Slovenia, around 7 000 200 we have manufacturing companies, and these 3 000 500 companies accounted for about 75% of the Slovenian economy, and around 48 000 economic operators listed in the business reports after Apes. They produce around 78 billion revenue per year in Slovenia, and today's picture of this economy is as follows if I only point out four results. Firstly, the economy cannot obtain credit. This will continue to suffer as last year's economic system has withdrawn 2.5 billion different loans, investment in banks has decreased or, on the other hand, the liquidity of the economy has deteriorated. A lot of these loans are of a short-term nature, not of a long-term nature. That's the next problem. The second conclusion is that the Slovenian economy is sub-capitalised. Very sub-capitalized. It should have about 40 % of equity capital; it has 30 %, including up to 25 % of equity of those companies which are extremely good, which have a competitive market, which has a strong staffing structure, which has a competitive capacity and export capacity. Thirdly, the average age for those good export companies in Slovenia is close to 50 years. This is why we have around 30,000 young people in the employment facility and so on, probably for other reasons, because the knowledge they acquire is not in line with the needs of the economy. This, too, will have to be taken more care of and regulated in the future. Three systemic orientations for the economy, in my opinion, had to be made. Crediting the economy. Here we have taken a step forward to sign financial engineering with the SID Bank for four credit lines, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular for technological reconstruction, development and research and for reverse assets for export-oriented companies. Credits amount to 500 million or revolving credit will happen again in 10 years, the real billion will be available in good three weeks for these companies. It would like to introduce a useful value added tax. An entity that generates more value added than last year has certain tax-based reliefs. It is also working on a tax for foreign direct investment in order to be tax holidays, and a special tax also on value added, if it was higher than the average in Slovenia. So it's done quite a bit. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Also a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you for your answers. Clearly, we agree that education must be adapted to the needs of the market. Good luck with that in this coalition. Besides, I think it's gonna be hard. We also agree that the situation in the Slovenian economy is alarming. But I am also of the opinion that the situation in the economy is more than alarming. The accessions and policies of the government of Alenka Bratušek are not appropriate or correct in this case. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would suggest that the National Assembly should hold a broader debate at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal in the context of the votes. Now it is Mr Janez Ribič with a question for the Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar! Since 2007, the Onkological Institute of Ljubljana has been dealing with the problem of legionele, increased iron and zinc particles in the water. It has been the last time that the most difficult patients and employees at this institute have been provided with healthy drinking water and the long-standing shame of building the Oncology Institute, which was built for eleven years instead of the planned three years, is therefore one of the consequences of catastrophic water supply and unhealthy water. The value of construction has increased from the projected 22 million to EUR 49 million. In the media, we have seen a forecast that we will finally have a new water supply at the Oncology Institute of Ljubljana next year. In an expert opinion, the Construction Office found a number of irregularities on the pipeline, even leaking pipes, and found that the pipeline should be completely replaced. The cause of legionella problems is the combination of tube corrosion and too low water temperatures, as they listed as many as 25 blind waters created by several modified construction plans. Your ministry has allegedly already begun to collect public procurement and invitations to tender, which should be completed by the end of last year. We're supposed to build a new pipeline with bank guarantees and a few extra millions, but we don't know where you're going to get them yet. Is it true that the bank guarantee of €140,000 has already fallen in 2010, and the next million €58 000 will be due by the end of this year? There is an increasing shortage of funds in health care, so it is imperative to make it possible for the bank guarantee to be cashed and to prevent another option worth €58 000 from falling. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: What will you do to finally arrange the appropriate water supply at the Oncology Institute of Ljubljana? How will you provide the additional necessary resources to arrange the water supply at the Oncology Institute? How will you make it possible to cash out the guarantee and thus prevent the loss of another million €58 000? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you so much for asking. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you. One more good-bye, everyone! Last year, we did one thing to control the construction of the Oncology Institute, and in fact, everything that wasn't supposed to happen was happening there. And these findings were written down. These findings also reflect what you have mentioned, all problems related to the water network, which has been inadequately designed, implemented and everything that belongs to it. It was indeed the opinion of the Construction Office that a new water system was needed at the Oncology Institute. With regard to this opinion, we also ordered a new project, which was prepared, followed by a revision of the project in the spring and a subsequent review, a review report based on all the documentation. The invitation to tender for the selection of the contractor concluded in August was followed. The expert services are now reviewing these two offers that have come, and we will probably also select a contractor on the basis of these public procurements for the rehabilitation of the water network. This is a demanding project, given the need to ensure at the same time the normal functioning of the Oncology Institute and to build or build a new water system. As far as the funds needed for this are concerned, it is true that in 2010, we are no longer able to make use of €140,000, while at the end of last year we have cashed in a bank guarantee of €2 million 132 000, so this is already cashed and this is a much larger amount than you mentioned, I think you mentioned a million €58 000. However, the difference to the value of the implementation of this project is somehow anticipated and we have reserved in the proposal for a budget rebalancing, which will now be presented here in a short time. So in this case, I see no more substantive reservations if we did not complain about the decision by choice of the contractor, so that this project or this rehabilitation of the water system would not actually have been so glassy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thanks for the answer. I really want the appropriate quality of water to be arranged at this institute for those who are there for treatment, as well as those who are employed there. I'm glad you've cashed in more than I have the information. I'm just wondering if there's gonna be any extra funds to do this. You say you are planning them in the budget rebalancing and, of course, I want you to succeed in making this better.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u165	The estimated estimate for public tenders is around €6 million. This means that we will need an additional EUR 4 million for this rehabilitation. The funds were foreseen in the proposal for a budget rebalancing under the investment funds of the Ministry of Health. I believe that will be done. However, it has proved to be a fact that, even at the time of supervision, we have already found that the 5% bank guarantee required in this project is too low for healthcare work, where all additional works are significantly more expensive.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Minister for the answers. Mr Franz Breznik is next with a question for the Minister of the Interior, Dr Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Virant, in early June you announced to the wider Slovenia that you would like to abolish one hundred smaller Slovenian municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. In doing so, you also mentioned that there would be savings of around 100 million euros over the longer term and that, in the first years, there would be reduced labour costs in these municipalities, various functional allowances and savings of more than 10 million euros. I ask you because I come from some environment, the municipality of Lenart, Benedict, Churchmen, Jurovski dol, St. Anna, St. Yuri, where the rural area, which has always been somehow nourished also with regard to infrastructure, has in recent years taken a major step towards the quality of life in the countryside, to preserve a young person's life in this rural area. They built a number of infrastructures, they built many schools, they also enabled entrepreneurs to work in new trade zones. I must admit that people are deeply saddened because they feel that there is some doubt in their transparent, rational work that these congregations have done and, finally, these congregations are also the bearers of certain investments. For this reason, we can also talk about some infrastructure investments which are carried by a smaller municipality in the Republic of Slovenia. People are worried. They are particularly concerned that these are very few jobs. A municipality of less than 5,000 people usually employs 5 to 10 people in the municipality and if it is a hundred municipalities, this means that it would save less than a thousand jobs in the Republic of Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you: What methodology have you determined or somehow framed to save EUR 100 million? Together with the mayors of the Slovenian Mountains, we have tried to obtain this data at several meetings or make some calculations to save 100 million euros. As a member of the National Assembly, I can say, through the mayor, the inhabitants of the Central Slovenian Mountains: By what methodology have you calculated that there will be more than €100 million saved over the coming years? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you very much. If reform of Slovenian local government is urgently needed, the vast majority of the Slovenian population thinks. We have now been able to look at some public opinion research that has shown that 80% of people support the Community Association project, rarely any government project that has had such support. The reform of local self-government is also supported by the profession. Indeed, this moment is now somewhat less than 20 years after we have reformed local self-government in 1994, we find that local self-government is extremely weak. It is particularly weak because the weak are its weakest members. These are small, functionally weak municipalities, which have a few hundred or maybe 2,000 or 3,000 inhabitants and simply do not have the capacity, they are unable to provide all that local self-government can. That is why Slovenia is a very centralised country. Local self-government consumes only 12% of total public spending, far below, say, the level of those countries that we consider to be examples of local self-government, such as Denmark, for example, where most public money is decided at local level. So we have weak congregations, and of course this applies to rural areas. The idea of bringing together municipalities, which I strongly support, is by no means a rural-oriented idea. On the contrary. If you two or three rural municipalities connect, which are today small, weak, poorly efficient, which have municipal administrations, as you said, with two or three employees who have relatively weak human resources choices within such a small number of people if you connect them, if you combine them into one strong municipality with more capacity, it will be very useful for rural development. Small congregations took advantage of their development potential, filled up, I could say. And from here on out, we need to think about connections. Of course, the gathering of congregations cannot be the only story of the reform of local self-government. All professions point out that we are missing an intermediate level of local self-government between the state and the municipalities, these are the provinces. There are a number of areas that are simply impossible to place, so it is within the jurisdiction of the State or the congregation. If I just give you a few. The issue of municipal waste management. How can congregations do so if this is by nature a regional issue related to regional waste management centres? It would be far more logical for the provinces to do so. Spatial planning. It is absolutely insane that we should have 212 spatial plans in Slovenia today. 6 years or more since the adoption of the Spatial Planning Act, 60 municipalities have adopted spatial plans. As it has been so far, it will not go forward. That's for sure, that's a fact. Of course, I am very well aware that those, let's say, 20% who oppose this reform project are very strong and loud people, so we're going to go to reform, we're going to go to change carefully and gradually. First, we will prepare, very briefly, by the end of this year's strategy for the reform of local self-government, probably the first law that will lead to a merger of municipalities that will allow or will provide a procedural basis for the merger of municipalities. Then we will start talking to both the professional public and the representative associations of the municipalities, in order to gradually come to a conclusion. I know that this is not something that we could do overnight, that other countries have taken more time to make sure that these are reforms that take some time to get people on the ground to make sure that this is better for them. Because I firmly believe and firmly believe that it is better for all Slovenia and for all the inhabitants of Slovenia if local self-government were stronger, if we had larger, stronger and more competent municipalities. So much for the first part. Savings are far from at the forefront of this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u171	I must admit, on the one hand, I'm glad that you've given us a starting point for something else. I just hope that we believe that we are going into the evolution of local self-government, if I understand correctly. Can we start talking before we end the congregations, about the second level, the intermediate level, about the so-called provinces where there is no consensus? As we know, it has been historically proven that Styria is different from Ljubljana, Primorska, so Dolenjska is different from Gorenjska. Why aren't we talking about this? Why don't we go to the countryside in the medium term? Then, according to the Austrian model, where the congregations are now smaller, they will be able to join without major problems. You cannot compare Denmark with Slovenia, but we can compare Austria with Slovenia, we have 700 years in common history and approximately the same circumstances. You are yourself a lawyer, you know the history of the law, which was 700 years in this region. I'm being asked why we don't have an intermediate level. Then it is also a problem to reduce the so-called administrative experts we are talking about – we agree on this part. Why didn't you plan it? Let's make an immediate plan for the next three, four years and establish the provinces. Why is it worth it? Another piece of information. The abolition of smaller municipalities and Ljubljana has a budget of 313 million and 74,000 public employees in Ljubljana: Will we solve this problem in front of small congregations? Even if we stop them tomorrow, let's say we save a thousand 500 jobs. Where are the other 74,000 people working in Ljubljana? Do people in the Slovenian Gore and other small congregations not deserve a good life, a good quality of life? So why don't you offer them the landscapes? Decentralisation is not only the primary purpose, but it is a better policy in local self-government. This is my question, which is crucial, which is also essential for the further development of local self-government. This would also be fair to those people who live in this environment. It would be fair to tell them, to move on, to the second level of the Austrians who have experience. We don't have to detect hot water and throw money out the window. So much for this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you. I think we're going to talk a lot more about this. However, I must stress once again, for rural municipalities, for rural communities and for the decentralisation of Slovenia, it would certainly be better if we had a system of local self-government based on a municipality such as was conceived at the beginning when the law made it very clear that the municipality could not have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. In some cases, they have made up their mind, maintained larger congregations, and are content with this. We have a completely asymmetric local self-government, which some experts call a system of chickens and ostriches; so, on the one hand, we have large, huge municipalities, especially in Southwestern Slovenia, say the Municipality of Koper, which was divided only after a decision of the Constitutional Court and, in fact, after a decision of the Constitutional Court, formed the municipality of Ankaran. On the other hand, we have northeastern Slovenia, which has broken down into small congregations, such as Prof. Šmidovnik called chickens compared to ostrich. That's a big problem. The municipality of Koper, Ljubljana or Brežice, if you wish, is a municipality which has not shared and crushed so much, has the same functions today, the same powers and must do everything in the same way as Osilnica, Odranci, Hodoš or any other Slovenian municipality. This is a major problem because these small congregations simply cannot do these tasks. Many small congregations have obtained quite some investment money from this title. They invested in projects, but smaller projects, by nature things were smaller because they were based in small municipalities, asphalting roads, lighting and so on. But today we are running out of money for bigger, more important projects, more jobs. What has been invested in these small congregations remains there, will not be taken anywhere. Now is the time to take a step forward and strengthen local self-government. Look, we have as absurd a situation as this, let's say that three, four small municipalities can't deal with each other as a single spatial plan and then one plans a road, it also builds a paved road with public lighting and everyone who then stops in the middle of the field at the municipal border. Such absurdities are coming! But I support the idea of landscapes, and I think we need to talk about it. So I think that in the coming months we will be talking very comprehensively and strategically about the further reform of local self-government. Nothing on the chorus, but that's what I can tell you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u174	Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u175	So you agree with me that we begin to talk first about evolution, to see if we can make any evolution of this local government before we stop the congregations, to talk first about the so-called second level, the so-called establishment of the provinces that I think are absolutely necessary, and if your purpose is to be truly kind to these smaller congregations, to do exactly what you have just said. Are you prepared to offer exactly such a system of debate, that we first discuss offering a second level of local self-government? Look, in Austria they have years of experience, and now the smaller congregations are sort of getting together. They unite on the basis of human will, they are very pleased, but they have a second level, they have exactly the kind of disputes that you were talking about, they solve the so-called Bezierkshauptmänner or the leaders of "bezirka" or the county heads. Why would they reveal hot water to me? We don't have to waste time, not here in Parliament, not you in the government, put into the process of so-called evolution, the system of the second level, so the classic landscape, and let's try to discuss this, if that's what it is, do you agree that we're going into this system? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u176	Mr. Breznik, the minister can't argue, but we can discuss his answer. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u177	Within the framework of the competence of the Member, I ask and I would like to put this into a public debate here in Parliament. [[...]] I believe that my proposal is well-intentioned, that it is very useful, including for other Members coming from different backgrounds with similar problems, and that we can discuss this within the framework of our competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your proposal, which will be decided in the framework of the votes. Mr Tomaž Lisec is next. He has a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and Space for Mr Sam Omerzel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Present ministers, especially distinguished Minister Omrzel! I am aware that the times in which we live do not favour investment, but I feel as I monitor the functioning of your government, especially through government meetings, that this government is working very hard to make even those investments that have been less and less. We are not interesting to foreigners, both because of new taxes, overcrowding and excessive red tape, and unfortunately because of the politically unstable environment. This government is already in the 2013 budget rebalancing of investments, and it is said that this trend will continue strongly in the proposed budgets for 2014 and 2015. So obviously, in the next two years, we can hardly expect any new investments and even some economic development, which is very wrong. Many of those who were on the other side almost a year ago and your representatives said strongly a year ago that without major investment and infrastructure projects we will not launch economic development in our Slovenia. When your predecessor, Mr. Cernač, said that his predecessor had also been involved in the construction of the second track project, that is also my question, he had left almost no document that almost nothing had been done or that the predecessor was more involved in the transport sector than in the construction of the second track or that they had forgotten that there were also European funds, they attacked him with all the cannons. In one year, which was Minister Cernač, something has moved, and now because of your last statement on the second track, I am concerned: Are the things on this axis of Koper-Divić or on this project standing or maybe you put them in a drawer? Why do I think that's an important question? According to a well-known Slovenian economist, Slovenia will lose up to €800 million each year because of its failure to build this second track. We all know that construction is taking place for quite some time, especially in Slovenia, so I am interested in a few questions: What about this project? Did you just temporarily, according to the budget, put this project in a drawer or permanently bury it? I'm asking: What's going on on the project anyway? What do you think is a realistic assessment of the construction of this second track if we were to make it work? What's his time stamp? What's more, here we go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Lisec, thank you for the question. Before we go into a concrete question, perhaps a little general about the investments you initially touched on. It is true that we are living in times when money is scarce, especially as far as investment is concerned, and that we would like more, but I cannot agree with you that there is no investment. If we look at it right now, we will focus on our ministry. At this moment, investments in the five hundred million euro range are under way – and this is all I'm talking about is investments in railways. So, half a billion euros at this point in the project being implemented, which is ongoing. As far as the economy is concerned and the response from the field is concerned, I must say that it is extremely positive. This part and this segment are constantly forgotten that these half-billion euros, which are a large part of European funds, are under way and work is under way. In the future, we have also devoted a great deal of attention to projects funded by European funds in the 2014 budget planning process, and this investment will be something. As for the second track and the question of this investment, there are only a few data points: 27 kilometers of a single track, 21 kilometers underground. This is essentially a decision adopted by the Government in October 2010, in which this investment is being driven. I myself have come to a clear understanding of the whole situation after making it very difficult and long-term analysis of the situation, in which this investment is set. The total investment for the second track – €1.4 billion – I am talking about VAT value. It's a number that I'm going to use my kind words to make an extremely skeptical one. Any Slovenian economist will find it difficult to convince me that by investing 1.4 billion euros we can justify this investment in any way. As far as Slovenian economists and experts are concerned. In this place, I call on them if they have an investor who is willing to bring €1.4 billion for the second track, it is absolutely welcome. However, I fear that the disappointment of finding an investor in this scale of investment will be. As far as the path is concerned, at this point I would be able to identify myself and remain at this level that I am extremely skeptical of this investment in this rank. I am not saying that the second track is not necessary at this point, but within one month we will make a decision on how to proceed with the second track. However, we are thinking very seriously in this direction that the narrow throats on the railway and the existing track will be renovated and that we will invest in this part and in some way provide all those capacities that Luke uses for its development for the next ten years.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Fox, would you like some more? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u183	I must say, I am very pleased that investments in your field are being made, and perhaps some of your predecessors are also responsible for this. First of all, I am interested in this planning, I will not now go into the budget for 2014, 2015 but you yourself have written in the coalition contract, quote, "in the field of railways we will give priority to all spatial activities related to the integration of Slovenia." I think this second track plays a very important role. I support these objectives, as you said, that within one month you will be able to respond more specifically. I also agree with you that in a project worth 1.4 billion, what has happened to us or is happening to us in the construction of TES 6, but still, something will have to be done. Here you are as a minister, and a little on the professional side of the political side, I ask: What do you think, or in the opinion of the Ministry experts, is the real price of building a second track? What is the real price or timing of modernisation or modernisation of the existing situation? We know that if we modernise this existing route for a little bit now, we could improve the amount of cargo transported by more than 30%, but at the same time maybe [[...]] You didn't answer me: How do you personally see a public financial picture of this project in the future? You said yourself that you believe that 1.4 billion will not be invested, but: Will you insist on a public-private partnership, or exclusively on the financial resources of the country, or may you take advantage of the next European perspective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thanks for the extra question. If we first look at the second track; the variant, as confirmed in 2010, is assessed at this value. I believe that this assessment of the planning of the variant is even real, because we are talking about 21 kilometers of the tunnel, and we must also be aware that these 21 kilometers go largely across Crassus. So it can happen to us that in certain segments we will run into unforeseen situations that will increase our investment. All these arguments and the planned route make it difficult to talk about what real investment is. A number of variants were planned before the 2010 decision, but the valuations of the financial regularity themselves for this part were not made because this variant was confirmed and assessed to this value at which it was assessed. What seems to me to be a lot more realistic, but it is a premature final decision to confirm, much more realistic to me – I see that you yourself have been thinking – that it is an update of the existing line. At this point, we estimate that somewhere in the range of €300 million, the necessary investment would meet the capacity required for Luka Koper to service its needs for the next 10 years. So this is a current estimate of 300 million euros. As it is said, within one month we will also have answers to these ranks and in which direction we will continue to lead the development of railways.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Alenka Jeraj, the question for the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. I ask Minister Virant about the "get of the Cjelovski dvori" or by e-mail he circulates information with this address, it probably has already reached you. Also, a time ago in Del, there was an article about residents ’ murmuring that they had settled in the center of crime instead of in a respectable neighborhood. In addition to the evidence of poor construction and empty apartments currently being sold under price, residents there are alerting to an increase in the number of offences and crimes. Some even claim that homeless people, drug addicts, and youths who use space for entertainment and social games have settled into empty apartments. This is certainly a poor trip for bankruptcy manager Vegrad, who made an agreement with NLB a long time ago that apartments can be sold for a thousand 500 euros per square metre, which is significantly less than many others have. There are also rumours that shishchen police officers in the area should have a lot of work due to violations of public order and peace. That's why I want to know: Is it true that in apartments in Celovské dvory they were inhabited, or on the basis of the MOL call, by applicants who are in difficult financial situations or even social problems? How do you assess the claim or what is circulating in the post office that part of the criminal underground has moved there in the capital, as indicated by the police intervention in the area?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u188	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. With regard to who, if and to whom MOL has settled in Celovské dvory, I cannot answer, because of course I do not know. However, I will provide an answer on the security situation and security issues in the area of the Courts of Celov. All such settlements, where there is a great density of the population, where large daily migrations, where there are many localities, businesses, etc., are always a particular security challenge. The police are responding to this with precisely targeted activities, particularly with a higher presence – that is, that it is more present in the field – and that it reminds the population of the phenomenon of crime and of the means of committing crimes. The partnership between the police and the local community is also important. So that people inform the police about the security issue, the crimes, the crimes and the police always react immediately and respond accordingly. As the number of residents in Celovské dvor has increased, the police have also received more information on security issues recently. There has been an increase in the number of reports of offences and offences that occur mainly in the basements of the said settlement. The fact is that the premises in Tjelovské dvor were empty and unprotected, and therefore can be made relatively accessible to persons who do not live at that location. In relation to this, several activities have already been carried out by the police to improve the situation, review of the situation, assessment of the security situation, interviews with residents. Police patrols regularly carry out checks on underground garages and external roads and the surroundings of Celovské dvora during the afternoons and at night. There were meetings with the SPN, the Housing Fund, the City Department, the Security Service. Police have recently discovered two stolen vehicles in the area, found some stolen license plates, seized illicit drugs, carried out several interventions, and dealt with other crimes and events. According to police, the security issue in the village of Celovški dvor does not emerge significantly after security events from other settlements with approximately the same density. The castles of Celov are a sleeping village, there are virtually no bars and problems, which usually binds to restaurants. With various forms of work, such as collecting notices, talking to residents, owners and so on, the police have not yet confirmed the statement of various general media posts and messages circulating that various criminal activities are to take place in the village of Celovska. It also did not receive any additional specific information that would confirm the existence of organised forms of crime, such as prostitution, gambling, trafficking in illicit drugs, except for those general indications circulating on the Internet. However, certain deficiencies regarding uncontrolled access to garages and basements have been identified from the outset, as informed by the operator and the owner. The police, specifically the Ljubljana Police Administration, will continue to closely monitor the security issue in this area and will act immediately if it detects events within its jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u191	If I understand correctly, some criminal acts have been identified, mentioning drugs and the like, not what is listed in this anonymity or in what surrounds more than 50 prostitutes, 4 massage parlors on black, 2 casinos on black — but they have not. Maybe to conclude just this: Has any strategy or plan been adopted to address any such — if any? I think you've also found that more crime is noticeable. So if we don't take action, there's only gonna be more. I want to know: Is there a plan, or strategy, that when the police assess what safety or what problems are, they also draw up a plan to deal with it? If any of these things are held, probably not only one police station in Šiška is enough, but it can also be a little more difficult to deal with; therefore, there are more police officers to approach the problem before something worse actually happens. Let's hope not.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u193	As it is said, the police have made an assessment of the security situation and are intensively gathering information. So far, this general information on gambling, prostitution and so forth has not been confirmed; criminals do so according to the methods established in the profession. I suppose they went to look at some of the offers that are coming up and checked to see if it was happening in the area of the Celovské court, and for now it shows that it was not. But they are present, they collect information, they talk to residents, owners, and they will continue to be intensively present in the afternoon and at night. Maybe a little more statistics. Otherwise, I do not have data for the Courts of Celov, but for Šiška in general, the trend in 2012 or the data in 2012 are comparable to trends elsewhere. For example, the break-ins remained exactly the same as in 2011 at the same time, a thousand 309, robberies are slightly less, bold thefts for a trifle more, thefts of motor vehicles less. All the assets they have dealt with are slightly higher. There's no strong deviation here. If I shorten, so far, it has been shown that these extensive information circulating does not hold that there is an increased security issue, the police are alert and will remain vigilant and continue to be present on the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Mr Zvonko Lah, Minister for Infrastructure and Space for Mr Sam Omerzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My question to the Minister of Infrastructure and Space also concerns the other two ministers, I am pleased that they are here, under the authority of local self-government and the economy. Mr Minister, if you remember when you took your term, I said something at the hearing: that within six months you will not correct spatial legislation, because it is too complex a matter, too extensive. At that time, you misunderstood me, as you once again had a debate on the committee. Otherwise, it's only three days after these six months of your show, 20. 9. It was six months, and I do not see that there would be spatial legislation in the procedure. In fact, I know that you have not come from this area to this function, that you do not know it so well, and in the 13-year mayorship, I am well acquainted with everyone, including state projects, highway construction and so on. I must say that in your programme of government work you wrote that you will renovate the strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia – you have moved this to 2014. Since this is a top act, the strategy for spatial development of Slovenia, which is very outdated, is very flat, I would say, was designed at the time of the conjuction, when we had a lot of ideas, and now the situation is quite different. Then we do not have a state spatial order, which is a continuation of this; nor do we have municipal spatial plans. Previously, Minister Virant said that only 60 municipalities out of 211 had accepted spatial plans. That's sad. State spatial plans, state infrastructure, transport or energy do not directly provide jobs. Jobs directly create spatial acts or industrial zones, economic centres. Last time we were fortunate enough to talk to the European Secretary for Regional Development, who stressed the economic centres that were the basis in 2004-2008 and then from 2008 onwards this was simply dead. Some environments or regions have done much, some have done nothing. There are new jobs, and they are permanent jobs. This space law needs to be rushed, I think. But with the pace you set out in the plan, we're not going to get to the municipal spatial plans, the real ones, for a few more years.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Lah, thank you for the question. True, editing the premises and building the buildings is an extremely complex topic. I'm aware of that. On the one hand, we have the process of implementing and preparing the documentation itself and implementing everything to achieve the goal, but on the other hand we have legislation. At the moment, in the field of legislation, we have four laws governing this, namely the Spatial Planning Act, the Buildings Act, the Space Regulation Act and the Law governing the spatial arrangements of state buildings. It is true that in reality, when we monitor how this area is currently being implemented, what it takes to achieve the goal, that is, all consensus, all documentation, is a terribly complex and long process, too long a process; especially from the point of view, if we want to be foreign investors – not just foreign investors, even domestic ones – a pleasant environment, so that we can really offer something that is feasible in one real time. I must admit that I am even more aware of this today than I was aware of when our debate began, so I believe that you are experienced in this area and that you have done more than a kilometer before me. What was crucial to us and somehow a milestone in thinking, in which direction to take only the regulation of space and the construction of buildings, we have an amazing impact on the ultimate goal of different departments. On the one hand, we have the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space – for example, if we start with the State Spatial Plans – on the other hand, we have a bunch of stakeholders that we need to take into account in the planning itself. We start with the environment or the Ministry of Culture and so on, to the local authorities. When we put all this together, it is in fact the only right act to make radical changes both in the field of legislation and in the individual documentation process. We've really done this whole thing. We have prepared a thorough normative measure or fundamental regulatory changes in the construction of buildings and the regulation of premises. This proposal is ready and will soon be in government. On this basis, we will then go into a complete change of processes and complete legislation. The deadline for all four roof laws to be replaced by a new law has been set for March 2014. Then we'd come up with a new bill. We believe this is real. We have worked very intensively to date with all the departments, both for culture, with the Ministry of Environment and Space, with agriculture, with all those involved in any way and important in the design of the concept, both from the point of view of how the process itself must be carried out as from the point of view of the legislation. I am convinced that this approach is correct, that it is right that we have pursued the concept in its entirety and that, once and for all, both in the field of legislation and in the process itself, we will shorten the procedures and regulate the legislation, that we will truly be a friendly environment for foreign investors and for domestic investors, and that the documentation will not be what will hinder the investment itself. On the other hand, of course, we need to take care of all the conditions of use that need to be taken into account; from Nature 2000, cultural heritage and all the stakeholders that are needed in these processes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Do you have a request for an additional response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u199	That's right. I was happy when you told the board that you were going to make a cut first, a real shot of the legal situation on the ground. I think that was the main point because, above all, there are a lot of objects on the periphery that are at the border of legal and are not legalised. Now, in the government, you're threatening to pay taxes on those objects that are illegally built. It is not fair for the State to fix a tax and, on the other hand, does not allow these owners to legalise it. Until the adoption of new legislation – as you say – which will take some time, they simply do not have a legal basis, a legal basis to legalise them, although somehow the facilities are not built in disharmony by not landing in the environment or by not being necessary for the development of an economy, agriculture or complementary activities – these facilities will be taxed. I think it's best if he hurrys. The former Minister of Montenegro has adopted a regulation that is supposed to bring a certain amount of noise under the roof, and you have probably felt how loud it was when he shuddered into some bureaucratic system, which, as you yourself said, is somewhat too bulky and unacceptable, so it would probably be necessary to cut and at least partially allow these people to legalise, to obtain municipal contributions, thereby building infrastructure and accelerating development where necessary. You can't even build plumbing or sewerage if the buildings are illegally built. That's why I think, [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] putting state projects into space – this law has not come to life, it is right to get it into some law, as you said, but it is necessary to make such a law that it will be lifelike so that it can be applied immediately [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. I understand that in some ways you welcome our approach and the concept that we have set out. What is important to stress throughout the whole concept is the so-called black construction or working name of the topic, as has been the case with this topic – we are really talking about illegal construction. So, illegal construction is the term we know in legislation, we don't know black construction, but in the media this terminology has been received in this way. It is important to realize that we have illegal construction and non-conformity. Illegal construction is the construction that actually has no basis: it is made without a building permit if I simplify it a little bit. Inconsistent construction is one that would otherwise have a building permit, but certain parameters do not correspond to what has been drawn upon the building permit, most of which are 5 x 7, then the house was created 5 x 8 and in this sense. Here, in the very concept of what we have set out, it is necessary to set out clearly the criteria in which legalisation is possible and in which it is not possible. Very clear and fair criteria and the same for everyone. So if spatial planning and complete construction is something that is able to legalize, then I don't see any reason why we shouldn't do it. Of course, we will come up with cases where, in particular, we have illegal construction in the sense that we have an object in a space where it can't stand at all. In this case, however, this will have to be remedied and this concept is also covered.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a procedure, Mr. Lach? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u203	Given that this topic is very important, very extensive and because the Ministry has addressed these issues, I believe that the approach is probably the right one, but if you take the data from the cadastral buildings or from administrative units, these data will probably not reflect the real picture. It is likely that field work, cooperation with the congregations, and so forth, is needed to create the right image and then determine the criteria by which it can be legalized and what to remove. We know that the country does not yet have the money to remove all that is now illegally built. The house there in the National Park, which was demolished, is nonsense for most citizens of Slovenia. This house could serve as a tourist activity, for I don't know what else, because it landed there and was built in such a way that it could serve its purpose. I therefore propose that a public debate be held at one of the future meetings and include all stakeholders who can influence the quality of this legislation because it is very important. In neighbouring countries, they do not know such illegal constructions as we do. We have no order in the room, and unless something else is done quickly, it will not be for a long time, which is a great harm because it is also a great economic potential in the field of tourism. These facilities are really public, you know the Trško Gora, how many facilities there are, even illegally built, could be very useful for some tourist activity. We have tourism in the walls, there is more demand than offer, but it is not possible to offer because there is no usable permit, but it is almost impossible to reach us under the current rules. And also probably not for a year or two, although there is a desire to do so. If it does not cut, Austria is a fine example if we imitate them. Everything that Austria has left for us, Maria Teresa – we have a cadastral, is still valid for them, everything that we have touched ourselves is virtually unsuccessful or less useful. I would therefore strongly recommend that we vote on a public debate under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now we are moving on to the next question that Mr Branko Smodiš will ask, namely, Minister of Health, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice President, all present, and good day on my behalf as well. Dear Minister, the draft Health Action Act is centralisation of health care to the centre. This draft law opens the door wide for the centralisation of health care, since due to the appearance of rational, planned merger and termination of certain health homes, in particular by transferring some specialist outpatient activities to regional hospitals, and in particular by the possible silent transfer of 40-hour emergency medical care to hospital units, there is indeed a very poor primary health care. The envisaged savings are thus transferred to the shoulders of two thirds of the population who do not live in regional centres, and access to services is significantly improving for them and thus becoming second-class citizens as regards the provision of health care. The draft law significantly reduces the role and importance of basic health care, even though it shows that the law strengthens the primary level. We cannot go beyond the facts that as a result, hospital activity is being strengthened at the expense of the periphery, as money is directed to hospitals. Many health care homes are well organized today and have also brought some specialist services closer to patients, such as diabetes, cardiological, psychiatric, and so on. The bill opens the door wide so that all specialists will be gradually transferred only to hospitals. The proposed law significantly reduces the level of relatively well-functioning primary health care for most citizens, as it is generally known that preventive and developed primary levels are cheaper and significantly more effective in maintaining general health care than curative and expensive hospital treatment. I therefore ask Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister for Health: How does the Ministry of Health see the status and future development of now functioning emergency medical clinics operating practically in all health homes, given the draft Health Activity Act? In the light of the provisions of the proposed law, is there no fear that in the coming 24 - hour period, emergency medical services in the full composition of the emergency medical assistance team were carried out only in pre-hospital units of hospitals? And: What is the future of the specialist activity now taking place in individual health care institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u207	Thank you for asking. Surely it is not that we want to weaken any level in the field of health at the expense of centralisation. However, it is important to be aware at the heart of one fact that you can provide health services effectively and qualitatively only if you have sufficient equipment, of course, qualified staff and a sufficient number of patients, and that you are properly trained to do this work. Here we face problems on both the secondary and the primary levels. But maybe I'll go to medical emergency. Indeed, emergency medical care is well organized in health homes. It is, however, a fact that we owe, of course, as the Ministry of Health, to all the people in the country, to all our citizens to provide somehow the same level of emergency medical care in terms of timely access to standardised equipment, materials used, expertise and so on. There are still fairly unacceptable differences in this area within Slovenia. An important step that has led us to think in a slightly different direction is the fact that, and practically at the end of the next year, there will be a number of emergency centres operating in the selection phase. The emergency centres, however, are designed to bring together at the hospital level as many possibilities as the hospital has — that is, equipment that is significantly better – as well as cooperation with the primary level, and that such comprehensive handling of these emergencies can be best provided within such centres. This is why the direction of regulation in terms of emergency medical care through emergency centres, of course where they are available and where they can provide this work. In other cases, due to accessibility and remoteness and equal treatment, the organisation of emergency medical care within healthcare homes will continue to take place. In healthcare, it is difficult to talk about centralisation in this title, and I think it is the right course, which, after all, the profession itself advocates for safer and better treatment. You also mentioned primary-level specialists. The primary level specialist is the one who has been present so far, and she is destined for the future anyway. I'm talking about primary-level pediatricians and gynecologists and some other specialists, of course, family doctors are specialists. As regards other activities that are primarily located in hospitals, it is also the position of doctors, family doctors and others to do so within the framework of hospitals, which, if necessary, provide services from a specialist in hospitals, including general hospitals. In fact, we need to know that we do not want to work at small hospitals from the general hospitals, because it is not meaningful or rational, but it makes sense only occasionally, where it is necessary to approach people in more remote places in order to be more accessible to these specialists. This does not mean giving programmes to healthcare homes, but rather as some kind of implementation of programmes outside hospitals also for other areas that these specialists will be able to carry out. So this is the direction that somehow follows the proposal of the Health Action Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u209	Thanks for the answer. Most of the time, I agree. Maybe I'm there for emergency medical care, I'm missing an answer, because every second here counts, and some would increase for quite a while. For example, in our places, Ljutomer, Murska, is already increasing by 20, 30 minutes. I hope you'll take that into account. She's with a specialist. Now it is possible in which healthcare home someone has come to the cardiologist rather than to take her to Maribor and Ljubljana, which would be a little more difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u211	It is right here that I have mentioned that, in the first place, emergency care should be provided in emergency centres, where these emergency centres will be close enough and accessible. Of course, where this is not possible because of distance, this time factor is of paramount importance, but it will have to be organised more widely and even within health homes. So surely in this part we will not go against the professional criteria that are clear in providing emergency medical assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We are continuing with the questions raised by Mrs Ljudmila Novak, who will ask the Minister without a portfolio responsible for the Slovenians in place and around the world, Mrs Tina Komel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u213	Madam Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague, you are most welcome! On 4 July, an All-Slovenian meeting was held here with the title Picture of Slovenia. At that time Slovenians came from our neighbouring countries, where Slovenian national communities live, as well as Slovenians who live in the world. They were quality references that we were happy to listen to. Unfortunately, I also have to conclude in a self-critical way that there were too few Members present, perhaps just something, some who are also sitting on the Slovenian Commission, there were also few representatives of the Government, because the Slovenians coming from a distance, they want us to listen to them, to hear what they are telling us, and then they also want everything they have proposed or at least some of it to come true in the end. Finally, they adopted 7 recommendations, among which they expressed the desire that – in Slovenia, the term "minority" is generally applied, but this has a kind of negative connotation, so they have repeatedly expressed the wish that the term "national community" and not "minority" are consistently used at all levels. Also "Slovenian National Community in Neighbouring Countries" and not "Slovenian National Community in Substitute". They also want the general term "Slovenian and Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia" to be enforced. Of course, they also made other recommendations, including the desire to include more topics in school programmes concerning the life of Slovenian national communities outside the Republic of Slovenia, on eviction and so on, as recommended by the Minister of Education. Now I ask you, Madam Minister: What will you do to make these recommendations come true?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u215	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Madam Members, thank you for this question. As you yourself pointed out in your question, it is about naming Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia as an indigenous national community in neighbouring countries and Slovenians around the world. This is a recommendation that we agree with in principle. However, you need to know that we use different terms in both the policy and the wider use of the name of the community. Different countries also use different terms to name such communities. I am aware that it would be good to use the same terms for naming in all areas. In our work, we come from the Constitution and the laws. The Slovenian Constitution states in its Article 5 that the Republic of Slovenia takes care of indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, Slovenian expatriates and residents. If we were already prescribing designations, then we should stick to this dictatorship, because the Constitution is the highest legal act in the Republic of Slovenia. In 1996, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, which was a constitutional term. In 2002 the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a resolution on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia. The resolution refers to Slovenians living outside the Republic of Slovenia and resulting from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or its Article 5. In 2006 the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Act on Relations with Slovenians beyond its borders. In its Article 2, the law defines Slovenians in place – i.e. Slovenians, foreigners – they are members of the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries, and Slovenes in the world, these are residents and expatriates who live in neighbouring countries outside the area defined as a Slovenian place of residence and in other European and non-European countries. Finally, the official name of the office, which you also know very well, is the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It follows from this that, in order to implement the adopted recommendation, it would first be necessary to amend the Constitution and therefore also to name it in other rules and laws. Of course, I will stress once again that in principle we agree with the recommendation and that the changes begin with us first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u217	Surely we will not change the Constitution so often or perhaps just because of it. At a future meeting, however, I would like to explain why this cannot be changed overnight, or we can do much by using only consistently such titles that may be more appropriate to them. Of course, there are many changes to the law, but there is no need to change the constitution. If I go back to the very title of the office or the name of the Minister himself for this area, I think this title should really be changed. Although I did this function for a year, I didn't remember it because it's impossible. He writes: Minister without a department responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world. Who can remember that name? At least we should change that. Among these recommendations was a recommendation on the use of European funds for cross-border projects. Of course, this also applies to other ministries, and it is the task of the Office to work well with other ministries and to warn them about certain things. For example, funds for cross-border cooperation are often unused. In 2012, we, together with the Slovenian Commission in the National Assembly and with the Office, organised a consultation to identify the difficulties encountered in implementing cross-border projects. We have found that most of the problems in Slovenia itself and that partners in these projects from Slovenia are the most late for obtaining permits, consents and so on. I would therefore encourage you to connect with the competent ministries and propose that these projects be carried out more effectively.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u219	Thanks again. True, I absolutely agree with what you've said. I will also say this, because you also know the work at the office, that, as you have already started, we also have a strategy at the office with which we actively cooperate with other ministries. For example, we also actively cooperate with the Ministry of the Economy and carry out various strategies or conferences. As far as our discussion of the next strategy is concerned, either because of the name or because of cross-border cooperation in various areas. This is a unique opportunity. I hope I'll see you at the office soon. We've already had our first meeting. In the second meeting, I'm going to invite all the members of the National Assembly Commission, where I think it's the right seat, where we're going to talk about it. Thank you very much for these initiatives. I think we will work very well together with your help and with the other members of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Any more procedural suggestions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u221	I will not propose a general debate, just one well-meaning recommendation. When the Council for Slovenians is organised around the world, this is the consulting body of the President or the President of the Government, I would like to ask that the agreed date is indeed followed – I know that there has been a lot of problems this year because many times the deadline has changed, they have had to change airline tickets – and that the meeting is well prepared. That they do not feel that they have come from the other end of the world to look at an hour, so to speak, or just to say good-bye, but that they are materially prepared and then that some of the results of this meeting are also there.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Dr Vinko Gorenak, Justice Minister Dr Senko Plitčanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! I think it was late in the spring when you signed with justice the so-called commitment to the citizens. I have already assessed that it is not clear what this commitment will bring, for a fundamental reason, because, on the one hand, it requires the Ministry to provide certain material conditions and, on the other hand, to the President of the Supreme Court, or I will say to the judiciary the relatively lax way of fulfilling their part of the obligation. In the first part of the question, I asked: How does this commitment actually come true because it has been a few months? In addition, the following: What are you going to say about this from a financial point of view? It is likely that the Ministry of Justice will not promise next year that only your ministry will have more resources, probably less, so at least it is expected from the point of view of the preparation of the budget for the following year. So: How will you be able to accomplish these things? What worries me in the first place – let me say as well as a question — is responsibility. In fact, the responsibility in justice is now vested in justice itself. Lately, I have been working very hard to get data from many European countries and I am also getting it. Now let me just say one thing as an example. In this House and on the part of the judiciary, it is often heard, for example, that I mention only as an example, 'a permanent mandate is a European standard that we must not exceed'; in short, everyone has it and so on. And look, say, Germany and find that this is not true at all; find that this is not true at all, and that our judiciary is a "tribulation" and sells as a broken record and nothing else. The actual situation is different. They know the mechanisms that lead to a permanent mandate that leads to a permanent mandate, but not to receive it at the age of 30. But our judiciary sells it to us as a broken record there in 1965 – you know, those who were "on the feds" we used to say and later on to power. In short, I'm afraid from the point of view of responsibility, something is not going to be right. Some of the last examples, to mention just friends in bankruptcy, to mention the Toběšov issue, go in the direction – at least that way I see – to paint you a little, so that they do not fulfill the commitment they have signed. I don't know how you see it. You'll probably comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me answer your question, Mr. Gorenak. The first commitment that the Government and the judiciary have signed and given to our citizens and citizens relates to the reduction of judicial proceedings. That's the purpose of that commitment. It, as I have already said several times in this place, provides for measures that the judiciary will only take to shorten procedures and what are those measures that the Government will take to achieve the same objective. Let me say that the data I have received in recent months, i.e. after the signing of this undertaking, shows that it is obvious that this commitment, and some other measures before that, has played an important role in the fact that the backlog and overall length of the trial have been significantly reduced in recent times. Here I have data that, if I summarize them, say that in the first year of my mandate, i.e. in the previous government, decreased by 9.1% compared to 2011, and in this year by 28.5% according to 2012. These are quite large numbers, i.e. an important reduction, which can be summed up by the conclusion that the commitment that you are asking and about which I have been talking about and the measures that we have already taken as the Government and also the courts themselves, the courts are only showing the first, very noticeable results when it comes to reducing judicial proceedings, reducing judicial backlogs and, again, I repeat, this commitment was also intended to do so. One of the commitments made by the Government in this commitment – we have the assumption that the judiciary will, of course, implement its actions – is that the Government will also provide adequate budgetary resources for the more efficient functioning of the courts. Let me say that these appropriations relate to two strands, one in the budget of the Ministry, which I manage, which is designed to implement government measures related to the implementation of the undertaking, and the other in the budget of the judiciary itself, which is, as you know, a direct budgetary user. With regard to both, I can say that if I start with the latter, that the budgetary resources are intended for the needs of the judiciary and that I should add the Prosecutor's Office here, because the role of the Prosecutor's Office in the implementation of the undertaking is also important, it remains unchanged despite the savings. But it is true that this is not some very large number, so here as the Government of this agreement we have adhered to and adhered to. At the same time, let me say that the resources under the budget of the Ministry, which I manage, have also remained; therefore, the resources provided for in the budget necessary for the implementation of the commitments by the Government. These funds are, in large part, European funds linked to various e-projects, which will be of great benefit to all the judiciary in the further implementation of the undertaking, as well as some other funds linked to some of the other measures that we as a government have provided by signing this commitment. This is the way money is, despite saving, but it could have stayed because it is relatively small funds. It's about money. In the third set, you ask what is the responsibility of judges or, in general, of public officials in the judiciary. By the way, you've got the state's attorneys in mind. As you know, the commitment we are talking about is aimed at a single objective, I have mentioned it several times, this is to increase the effectiveness of the judiciary, read the reduction of judicial proceedings, and it is not related to such or other changes in the system, which is linked to ensuring accountability either by judges or by other public officials acting within the framework of justice. This arrangement is still the way it is. So, I think when it comes to the question of the judiciary as an independent branch of state government, it is also right that it is the responsibility for faults of its own kind on them, that they identify these errors and that they also sanction them, and the other is the question of whether we can agree with them [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] see what conclusions they come up with in particular cases. [[...]] Then I guess there's more I can say.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I know that the main thing is the backlog, and it's also the right thing to do. But the text also states this: "The Presidents of the courts must create a culture of responsibility and transparency of action." Okay. But, look, I'm trying to separate and I know what your powers are and what the powers of the judicial branch of power are, so we can be united here. But the matter is simply relatively clear: despite your extremely clear words in the previous and this government regarding the functioning of justice, it is necessary to make it very clear that they do not wish to do so on those sides, so on the side of justice. Minister, not "silver" you, not this government, not this Parliament, but the previous governments, nothing. They live in a world, a world where there are special rules. Take a look at the last thing about Tobutov. 16 thousand 500 euros will probably go, the lady will probably get even more, she will probably get even more than that amount she demanded, but the judiciary will find out, so the Supreme Court finds that everything is fine, and Mr Furlan, the prosecutor, is fine. How can everything be okay with prosecutors and judges, while citizens will pay €16 000 500? Just one more thing. Let me remind you that we had before your predecessor, Mr. Zalar, the disciplinary commission or disciplinary procedures for bankruptcy managers were arranged at the Ministry of Justice, while Mr. Zalar transferred this to the chamber, that is to say, to the chamber of bankruptcy managers. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] [[...]] Since we're running out of time, look: it's the same there, friends in bankruptcy, we've seen all the pictures, we've read all of them, and now we find that none of them are guilty, everything was legal. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Here you go. You have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u229	Thank you. I think that the results I mentioned earlier point to, at least I am explaining them so much, that in the judiciary they have only seen and understood what the requirements of citizens and citizens and especially of the economy are, and have changed their activities – in this regard, when it comes to the reduction of judicial proceedings or the greater efficiency of the judiciary. I think these numbers clearly indicate this as, say, some kind of intermediate conclusion. It should be known that the commitment has a time limit to which the objectives are to be reached, i.e. March 2014. Until then, let us wait for the final assessment of whether or not the promises made by the judiciary have been fulfilled under this undertaking. For the time being, data show that they are being implemented when it comes to reducing procedures and increasing efficiency. When it comes to the issue that you discussed in the second part, I must say that this is at least as important a question as increasing the speed of the judiciary – that is, increasing the culture of responsibility and, in particular, the transparency of action. Already in last year's mandate, and also this year's, whenever I have the opportunity to do so, I remind the Slovenian public, as well as the Slovenian public, that judges and judges, prosecutors and prosecutors, all who act as public officials in the framework of justice are equally responsible for citizens and citizens as we are, other officials. And that it is the basis for citizens to be able to judge their work at all, to know what they are doing, and that this action is transparent. There's a lot of work to be done here. In truth, they have accepted this as one of the commitments to further improve their operation here. Let us wait for this year to turn around, assessing whether, in this area too, in the framework of justice, in particular the judiciary, they have increased the transparency of their actions. I think that increased transparency will then lead to a greater level of responsibility, because it is linked to one another; it is also an awareness of this part of our public officials operating in the judiciary, as it is said that they have the same responsibility to taxpayers. But I think I really agree with you here. Given the prevailing situation after all these years of independence, justice is ahead of us, in this context in particular the judiciary, and all those who have important powers here to do more together when it comes to transparency and greater awareness of the responsibility we all have before our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u230	Thank you very much. There you go. Also procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Not that I would not be satisfied with the answer, but I must say that I will take advantage of the business options and suggest that the National Assembly discuss a little less about your response, more about accountability in justice. I think it would be useful to support you in writing laws. I therefore propose that this debate be held by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Ms Irena Tavčar, Minister for Infrastructure and Space for Mr Sam Omerzel, will raise the next question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u233	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! My question is addressed to Minister Omerzel, concerning vineyards. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be at 12. 9. 2013 on your proposal underlined the price of vinjets and at the same time introduced a new class of vinjet for combined vehicles. With this measure, the price of wines for combined vehicles, i.e. for such vehicles, ranged from EUR 95 to EUR 220 and for passenger vehicles from EUR 95 to EUR 110. With these prices, Slovenia has the most expensive annual toll refund according to the mile of the highway in the European Union. Combined vehicles are also used for the transport of disabled persons and as the only possible means of transport for large families, i.e. families with four or more children. Combined vehicles are also a means of transport, which is very often used by families with less than four children. Both groups will have to pay twice as much as the normal driver of a passenger vehicle for the use of the motorway due to personal circumstances. The Government's measure of introducing a new wine for combined vehicles shows that, in this solution, additional funding for Darsa would mainly be provided by families and disabled persons, or all those who offer transport to disabled persons and children with combined vehicles. It is clear from the statements made by the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities that such a solution has not been aligned with that ministry and also opposes this solution. It is also clear from the means of public information that the free use of the highway for disabled persons in Austria is not only a correction of Austrian social policy, as these exemptions are also granted to persons with disabilities from abroad. Disabled persons in Croatia are also entitled to exemption from the toll. Given that Slovenia is a social state and that all should also strive for a reasonable family policy, it is unacceptable that Dars should be financed at the expense of disabled persons, large families or families with combined vehicles, since these vehicles do not represent a double load of the motorway in the light of the double cost of the blame. From the point of view of the impact or burden of these social groups, the Ministry should even consider lower prices than for passenger cars for these groups. So I'm asking the Minister: What are you going to do specifically to make the price for combined large-scale vehicles and for the transport of disabled persons equal to or lower than for passenger vehicles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u235	Madam Tavčar, thank you for the question. Today, there has been quite a bit already said on the subject of vignettes, but I will return to the reasons why only a specific concept has been pursued. Dars has 2.77 billion euros in debt today. Dars is in the long run, according to the system, as he has now been exposed, financially uncontained. So in the event that Dars is unable to service his obligations, these obligations fall on this country. This means that this country must provide €2.7 billion, which I believe is what we know most of the 2014-2015 budget. It is also the fact that all governments in front of us have practically known about this situation and the commitments coming from 2014, which is part of the debt we have known since 2004, but unfortunately no one has done anything before. These measures would be much less painful if they were adopted in 2008 or earlier, much easier to divide this burden into years, but I cannot change history. I am here today before the facts, and something needs to be done not to get into a crisis situation in 2014. This year, Dars has €110 million in liabilities, which he can service and which is also the upper limit. Up to 120 million Dars is able to service annually through the existing system. As a result, we have been forced to set up a new price policy, and Darsu falls to 365 million euro in 2014 and this dynamic continues throughout the years. Thus, this system was inevitable if we wanted to save Dars and make it financially sustainable in the long run, and consequently the country that is married in this case. In particular, we have undertaken a very systematic resolution of the entire pricing policy, on the one hand of the vignette system and on the other hand of the freight toll system. In freight transport itself, we have adhered to the concept of burdening environmentally more controversial vehicles, i.e. those up to Euro 2, and giving maximum discounts on environmentally acceptable vehicles, we are talking about Euro 5 and Euro 6 vehicles. Here, too, we have provided additional subsidies to carriers for the purchase of new, more environmentally acceptable vehicles, I am talking about Euro 5 and Euro 6. We are here specifically talking about four million euros in subsidies. It's true that we introduced a new vignette in the vans themselves. This is a class that was previously not tolled and treated in the same way as passenger vehicles, which the profession considers to be incorrect. It is very simple and real that the passenger vehicle is uncomparably less burdened by the motorway than by the combined vehicle. I think it is right that these combined vehicles are being treated specifically, and I must say that the response was positive in the field of professions and carriers as well. Of course, no one was pleased with this measure, but most agree that it is correct and that this is the right way for these combined vehicles, namely vans, to be additionally charged as one new tolling class. It is true that this segment is where both the family members who have more children and use these vehicles and the disabled have fallen. There is another group that I agree is justified in finding a way to enable them to use motorways more cheaply. As far as the outside world is concerned, it is true, it knows this part, but nowhere is it solved through the controller, which in our case is Dars, which is in Austria, for example, Asfinag. What I'm trying to say is that the vignette for the vans has to stay at 220 euros. If they gave me discounts, they would be discriminatory to other families across Europe. Austria specifically addresses this problem through social policy. So this price of vineyards exists and then these funds are reimbursed through social policy. I believe that this is a correct and correct approach. We'll take this approach with us, and we'll have this conversation with our colleague, and we'll find a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u237	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. I didn't exactly get the right answer to the question: Are you thinking of lowering the price of guilt for vehicles carrying disabled persons, or for combined vehicles carrying disabled or multi-member families, families with multiple children? Don't you even think about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u238	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u239	Thank you for the opportunity for further clarification. We're thinking about it. We're working hard on that. I wanted to say this by saying that in addition to families with multiple children and with disabilities, there are groups that we also need to deal with. We would like a comprehensive concept, a systemic approach and, in cooperation with the Minister responsible for this area, to find a way to bridge this part, which would be discriminatory to all others in Europe. So if we were to give directly discounts on Dars himself as the system manager, but to go on the other hand through the social mechanisms into the concept of the refund of this difference. So the price of vinyl will remain 220 euros, but we will find a way to refund this difference, so that eventually they will get a discount through some form of social transfer and come into this rank like they are now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. The next question will be raised by Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Secretary-General of the Government of Mrs Tanji Sharabon.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Dear General of the Government, at the previous meeting, I asked you a question in the House and even though you were in the Chamber and I called you for an answer, you did not answer, but Minister Virant jumped in with a "less is more" footnote and did not respond to my specific very clear questions. In the interim period since the previous meeting, the Commission has convinced itself that the Government has not even requested information from the Council on the misuse of classified information and on [[Incomprehensible]] , which was made out of this and was consciously silent in front of the Members, she did not try to answer. This shows that manipulations in the article Refreshment on Owl were conscious and planned placements with knowledge, probably sponsoring the government, using what we call Parasov. Because the director made sure he didn't know anything about these things. This is, of course, a great scandal, which sometimes leads to the collapse of the government or to the resignation of the Prime Minister in our case, in Slovenia, the President of the Government or, in particular, the President of the Government at this time. We caught the government and the flags if we say she didn't want to and tried to answer the extremely important issue of the abuse of the Owl for political purposes. Since this is a legal obligation under the Government Act, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under the Law on Owl, you, Madam Secretary-General, I ask: What purpose did this scandal have? This outrageous matter, this is a very difficult matter, we now know very well how this was done, which journalist was chosen to distribute this falsified information from the commission and the Owl, and I ask for an answer: Why did you not prepare the answer — the government as such?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u243	Good-bye. At the 16th regular meeting of the National Assembly, you asked me and the Minister – both of you – why I must stress this, because this is in fact evident both from the question of the mission and from the Magnography of the National Assembly – the question of the departure, distortion and abuse of classified data from the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. On the last question, because he has powers like me in this area, the Minister of the Interior was responsible. Because with his answer, and also with the fact that he answered your question, you were not satisfied, you asked the same question again and asked me to answer it myself. So, as has already been explained to you, Sova, as a self-serving service of the Government, is an agency responsible for its work to the Government and to the President of the Government, and as Secretary-General, I do not have the authority to answer questions in this area. As Secretary-General, I am not competent to check or answer in public questions about the confidential information collected, processed and stored by the Agency and on the legality of its work. The Member could ask this question to the President of the Government, or he could ask a written question to the Government. It would make even more sense for the chairman of the Agency to answer this question to the competent working body of the National Assembly in accordance with the law. On your additional question that we did not ask the General Secretariat for an answer to the question of the parliamentary group – this is not true because we have asked a question, as Secretary General, where we received a typical answer in accordance with Article 2 of the Law on Owl, which deals with classified information.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Secretary General. Here you go. You want to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary-General, I'd like to suggest you don't get involved. It's a very serious scandal, and you're not the only one to blame, or you're in the middle. You were appointed by the government or I had to ask you about it and now you're covering the scandal that was committed in the government. Indeed, I asked Minister Virant, but only in that part — if such abuses also work in the criminal service — and nothing else. I am well aware, as a long-standing member and President of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, where the powers are located. Nor is this true, it must be denied that you asked Owl because when I showed him the Magnography of the question, the director of Owl told us that they didn't know it and they weren't asked. And now don't put things in public that don't hold, because such things with intelligence services are for investigative commissions. Recently, in one of the European Union countries, the Prime Minister resigned from the service affair. So this time the government has screwed up, the powers we have, or the right, the institution of the question of mission, has not been taken seriously. I didn't get the answer and it gets us there, and now we know something more, that what was written in the article Refreshment on Owl was consciously staged as pure manipulation, a lie with exactly a political goal. That's outrageous.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Do you want to react? Here you go, Madam Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u247	Today, as part of the preparation of the response to your question, I spoke to Director Sova and he told me that he had actually overlooked that this question had come. I would therefore ask that he actually turn to the director of the Owl for an additional explanation. Once again, I would like to reiterate that the initial responsibility for the control of the work of the Soviet Union is the responsibility of the Commission of the National Intelligence and Security Services Assembly, the supervision of each person in its field, as well as by the Court of Auditors, the information officer, the various inspections to which it belongs, for example, an inspection for classified information. The Minister of the Interior also explained to you that in the event that any suspicion would arise in relation to the media records, any signs that would justify the suspicion of criminal services would have been reacted to by the police alone, without any explicit instructions. Therefore, as Secretary-General, I cannot comment, in particular in public, on the information provided on Owo's classified information and your concerns about the legality of the Agency's operation. However, if you insist on your allegations that the Agency should act in this way, I suggest you propose that the Committee of the National Assembly be considered. In doing so, classified information will be protected in accordance with the law. The latter is not possible at the meeting of the National Assembly. This is the only right way and the only legal way to deal with such issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u248	Thank you very much for your answer. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u249	From your reply, Madam Secretary-General, it appears that the Prime Minister of the Government has decided, if necessary, to sacrifice Director Sova, because this cannot happen in the intelligence services that the Director sees fit when dealing with the intelligence service in Parliament. There's enough people to bluff. Then it is total unprofessionality and you say a pathetic picture, the government, actions and communication between you and the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. And it is such a thing, because the information that appeared in the newspaper, unauthorizedly, with the crime of leaking classified information, is very serious, with a clear political objective. Political abuse of intelligence services is the greatest sin in every country when it is discovered. And here, unfortunately, we got the government and flags or – well [[...]] Because we cannot and must not be responsible with such an answer. I also suggested last time that we close the session. I know what's possible in a public session, don't I? But if things with some purpose come to the newspapers, then the public must also ask; and I did so. Because of such an answer that the public cannot calm down and is a serious attack on democracy, what has been done, I suggest that we hold a general debate if it is necessary to do so in a closed session – the government cannot teach what we can ask or what we cannot do – because the threat to democracy is so great and we must eliminate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Marjan Pojbič, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. To dean jedan, who has made an apology and cannot attend today's meeting, but we will listen to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u251	Madam President! I must say that I am very sad that there is no minister here today, because I would be more pleased to hear his oral answer than it will be written, but I ask the Minister or the Ministry to answer this question in writing. We have a lot of problems in Slovenia when it comes to the flow and regulation of watercourses as well as the regulation of reservoir lakes. This problem is always at the forefront of a flood or drought. This summer we witnessed once again the huge problems in areas where the drought affected certain areas in Slovenia, including the Municipality of Pesnica or Perniško lake. Following the extraordinary pressure of the media, the civil initiative for the preservation of the Pernica Lake and the municipal councillor of the Municipality of Pesnica, Mr Čep Franca, a meeting took place between Minister Židan, the director of the company Ribe Maribor and the local mayors of the municipality of Pesnica, gentlemen. The promise of both is that a project task will be prepared for the comprehensive organisation of the Perni Lake based on a thorough public debate of the local community. After the project has been completed, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment will agree on how to carry out projects from the project task. If I recall, this year there was once again a large death of fish in Lake Pernice, more than 20 tons of fish. The smell was strong in the surrounding area, and it took a long time for the dead fish to be removed from the lake’s surface. Of course, the people around them are justifiably angry and will insist on the realization of these promises by the Ministry and the local community. The problem is also still the unclear ownership of the lake. It is also a key problem that kills fish, not removing 102 thousand tons of mud from this lake. All of these were obligations of the contractor when the highway was built, but the work was not done and no one is responsible for it now. The municipality wants to develop tourism at the lake, which is also fully agreed by the locals living near the lake. I think that's the only real solution. That's why I'm asking Mr. Minister of the Jews: What will the Secretary of State do about the regulation and safety of Accumulation Lakes in Slovenia? Above all, I am interested in the problem of the Pernice lake in the Municipality of Pesnica: How and in what way will the Ministry approach the issue? I'm also interested in: From that meeting with the mayor of the Municipality of Pesnica, what has been done to this day? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u252	Thank you very much for your question. You will receive the reply in writing. However, we continue with Mr Ivan Grill, who will raise a question to Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u253	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! According to the information available, I was myself aware that there are quite a few jobs in our health system with certain ratings, or we can even say the privileges they are not actually affected by, namely, those ratings show up in the form of shorter working hours for individual workers and also with a greater allocation of annual leave. These are so-called jobs where ionizing radiation is present, which is indeed harmful to health, but this was justified decades ago when devices really caused this radiation in substantially higher proportions or quantities than is present today. The available data show that these radiations are essentially for several times, and sometimes the factor is ten times lower than the prescribed limit values. That is why these ratings, which are still present, are not justified and, last but not least, this is a significant cost to our health system, since the higher number of days of leave, the shorter working hours, certainly means that more employees are required to carry out these tasks. The fact that this is unjustifiable also shows comparisons with European countries. All Western European countries — according to the information I have — have no ratings, no additional leave. It is said that there is only such a presence in Greece and in the Czech Republic. Given that the other countries, as far as this is concerned, are also very inclined to see this protection of these employees taking place at an appropriate level, and they do not have it, it is obvious that this is unjustifiable for us. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Do you know this anomaly — as we might call it? In your work plan, do you intend to arrange this or systemize it in a way that will be fair, not least for users of the health system, but for others employed in the health system? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u255	Thank you for asking. What you've explained actually holds true. It is said that there are certain jobs that include specific working conditions, where ionising radiation is also considered. However, the fact that there is neither in EU legislation, nor in our own, nor in any other international recommendations, is anything that would suggest that these additional burdens are linked to certain privileges, if I may say so, in terms of longer breaks and the like, is also true for us that, on the basis of measurements that have taken place for a number of years, these anticipated doses are not actually reaching far from them. [[...]] The annual load allowed is about 20 millisieverts. The values in most cases are below 1, rare cases up to 5, which is still significantly lower than the tolerated dose. All legislation speaks more in favour of protecting against ionising radiation, it is said, protecting the worker from damage that could occur, while these ratings are more defined in collective agreements and labour law. Of course, I agree that for this area too, a collective agreement will have to be opened and more difficult working conditions are met, under which ionising radiations are also allowed to increase. There are still some open questions, and I believe, of course, that this is one of these ratings, as you yourself are making a claim that is unjustifiable today in view of the development of technologies. My personal opinion is that perhaps something could belong to very small groups, where actually intervention works under a beam of radiation, even though there is no limit value reached there, while for all others it is not justified. So, the only way is to open a collective agreement, and I think we're going to do that as soon as we get this basic legislation into the process of adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I am pleased that you also have this information at your disposal and that you are aware of this problem. It would be right and fair for both healthcare users and other employees to avoid certain groups of people having so-called ratings, especially given that they also exist in public – I believe that they are justified – to say that some employees working in such a working environment, after their working time, are working in some private institutions where they are also working further. Given that you yourself find that radiation is actually 20 times lower than a certain limit value, I ask you: Would it not be wise to consider changing this provision? Because these employees have to wear some measuring devices that measure the amount of this radiation, and these measuring devices have to send very often, I think, to some centre in Ljubljana, which additionally burdens the health system and this cash register. In view of the fact that these modern devices, as we know, are causing significantly less radiation, in order to change the regulations or anything that dictates that these controls are not sent so often and thus unduly burdens the health treasury. Or could we expect changes in this direction? Thanks for the extra answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u259	Of course, I'm not an expert in this field. True, all who deal with ionizing radiation have these dosimeters, which accurately record the amount of radiation. This goes primarily from the point of view of security for employees for the employer's obligation or not to exceed these permitted radiation burdens and I do not think that this is a very high cost. Perhaps we could exclude some groups of those who do not actually work directly under the beam, but the question of what would be the savings. I prefer the idea of limiting unwarranted ratings, while for the safety of those working on it it is probably necessary to keep this under control. In spite of everything. You never know when the machine malfunctions or anything that might actually increase dramatically at some point in time of radiation. That's how I think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u260	Thank you very much. But we're going to continue with the mags. Mr Ivan Vogrin, who will ask the question of the post of Justice Minister Dr Senko Plitčanič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I'm not going to read what's written in the question of the House because I think we both know it. I'd start different, a little simpler. In order to be able to pass a judicial examination and have the conditions for a judge or a lawyer, one has to work for 8 months of traineeship. However, we have such regulations, laws, current practice that, according to these trainees who are in court with whom I have met at their request, do not even allow them to receive payment. Now, as a citizen or an ordinary citizen, I am interested in your position, as well as your possible intentions for change – what would happen if a company hired a trainee and not paid for it? The next day, we would be full of newspapers, what exploitation is, what we are going to do, and so on! However, we have volunteer trainees in court who, according to their statements - in this question, I wrote what they told me - do not receive lunch, do not receive travel costs and do not receive any payment. Once again, I ask what I have asked many times: What kind of country do we live in? How do we measure that? We prescribe 8 months of compulsory traineeships so that I can proceed to a judicial examination, that I have conditions for a lawyer or a judge, and then this person, who is now a graduate lawyer, does not receive any payment. And if we are striving for a fair democratic society in which work is valued, then we must pay people! I'm curious, but on behalf of these interns or more, they're interested in: How are we going to handle this in the future? Do you feel that such an arrangement is equal compared to the economy and is at all regulated as it should be? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u263	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Vogrin! First, it must be said that the traineeship you are talking about is not the same as the traineeship regulated by the Labour Relations Act, which you also talked about when someone comes to a university degree, for example, in a company and is trained there in the framework of a traineeship for self-employment in a working relationship. It's a classic internship. If we were dealing in court with such interns and didn't pay them, then we would actually have a problem, and we don't have such interns, but we do have volunteers. This term "preacher" for them is not the most appropriate because they do not train themselves to do some work on a job, but are trained for one purpose, and this is for a legal exam. They come to court, move there from department to department, gain experience and knowledge not to work in court, but to be able to do the exam. Therefore, this traineeship is different from classical traineeships, as regulated by the Labour Relations Act, which also provides for the obligation to reimburse the costs and other things you mentioned. In spite of the fact that the courts already have major difficulties with this, with such volunteering, where various young people are allowed such training for a legal examination, because the number of trainees is very large and even have a lot of logistical problems, some financial resources should apply to this, although not to reimburse costs, for various other matters, but if this traineeship is to be equal to the other traineeships which, as I mentioned, is governed by the Labour Relations Act, then the legislation should be amended and then allocated to the courts additional funds from which you could finance the reimbursement of the costs that you have discussed. This is a brief answer to this question of yours regarding why it is so. Although you asked something else in this written question, you did not specifically point out this in the oral part. In fact, you're asking: How is the legal examination conducted in writing? This is still being done, as you say, "on hand", not using modern information technology, using computers, the Internet and so on. I must say that since last year's mandate, I have been trying to put this issue in order to change in such a way that it is only in 2013 that we use modern technology – this means information technology – and I must say that this goes very slowly for a number of reasons. One of these is also related to security, by preventing possible misuses in the use of computers, by not having our own hall, but by hiring it, and in what we rent, the one who rents it does not want to install modern IT equipment and so on. What I can say is that I am doing what I can, in the context of the money available, to make it possible to move from writing to using a computer as soon as possible in the course of this exam. Little to comfort, but this does not mean that I am still trying to justify such a situation, to say that it is so in almost all the Member States of the European Union. One is where candidates can use the computer, and this is Estonia. But that doesn't mean that we're going to say otherwise in the future, so we're not going to do anything. I will continue to listen to this, to address the security issues that I have talked about before, so that this could happen as soon as possible and that these young people growing up with information technology could also use this to carry out a legal examination.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I wouldn't want it to look like some sort of general accusation or disdain. However, I would like to add something else and also ask for an explanation. In fact, the problem here is that you are constantly – and I don't think you personally, I have said here many times that the institutions of the system do not work. Now a concrete example: we do not have the money to pay regular traineeships under the Labour Relations Act. Then let's just make up some clever nonsense, some volunteer internship, and say we're not paying people now. Yeah, then let's do it on the other side, in the economy! We always use double watts and the courts are the ones that should regulate this most equally. Now imagine if someone had a volunteer intern at the company, suddenly there would be full of inspections there and so on. Here's the original problem: if we don't have the money, we say we don't have it and we fix it differently. I don't think it's right. Look, I didn't see the problem. The problem was detected by future judges, lawyers working in the courts. I know that you personally cannot handle this overnight, but it would make sense to approach systemic regulation, that the institutions of the system will normally work for all citizens and for all entities alike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr. Vogrin, we're still going to repeat what I said before. When it comes to judicial volunteering, it is not about traineeships under the Labour Relations Act. These people are not trained to do some work in a job, they are trained for a legal exam, and that is the specificity. If you want to be a judge, a prosecutor, and so on, you have to make this exam so that you can make it a practical experience. This is actually some kind of ratings that they're allowed to do. To those who are classical trainees – they are, too, but who are employed in court – those who can't work because there aren't enough of these places because there's not enough money and they're volunteering. These have only one task, which is to prepare for the state's legal examination. This, however, you must admit, is the difference between "such an internship" because it is not an internship as understood by the Labour Relations Act and that of the Labour Relations Act, which is in fact intended to train precisely for a job in an enterprise or another legal person. That's an important difference. Once again, these young colleagues and colleagues are trained to do a test, which then opens the door to one of these professions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u268	Thank you very much. We are continuing with the questions raised by the Members, namely, Mr Samo Bevk, will raise the question of the question to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mags. Stan Stepichnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u269	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! According to my information, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, in preparing the national budget balance for 2014, provides for the deletion of funds for the maintenance of the indemnified part of the Idrija mine and monitoring. In my further inquiry, however, I found that the Ministry had also planned to delete the mining damage. Both items have a legal basis, including by means of the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Silver Mine Idri. The security of the city of Idria, its inhabitants and property will be compromised by the cessation of the maintenance of the Idrija mine and the monitoring of the closing parts. Also as a result of delaying the establishment or transformation of the mine into a public institution, Idrija, the Center for the Management of the Heritage of the Rudnik of Living Silver, is also threatened by the entry of Idrija into the Uneskov World Heritage List. According to my latest information, the competent ministry did not provide funds or remove the item from the budget for those items under the 2014 State Budget Balance. The fact is that because of the difficult financial situation, the funds for the Idrija mine and mining damage were halved already in the 2012 budget rebalancing, as it would require a million EUR 300,000 per annum to perform optimally all the necessary works identified in the approved mining projects. The deletion of all assets for the Idrian mine is such a drastic measure that it would mean the cessation of the draining of cave water and the dismissal of all thirteen employees, which would certainly exacerbate the geomechanical situation over the mine and thus endanger the city of Idrija alone. The uncontrolled sinking of the mine would also destroy the precious UNESCO technical and natural heritage that was registered on this world list last year. Minister Mag. I'm asking Stephen Stanka: How will he take action to ensure the security of the city of Idria in the long term and return both items to the state budget? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u271	Thank you so much for asking. On the basis of the law on prevention of the consequences of mining in the mercury mine, the State must somehow provide funds for the maintenance of the un watered part of the Idrija mine, maintenance of the museum mine and monitoring and mining damage. But this year we faced a situation where we needed to make a balance. So it was necessary to reduce the expenditure somehow for the second year. As part of the preparation of this draft amending budget for 2014, we have been all resources, and thus our ministry, as a result of urgent austerity measures, called for a reduction in funding for 2014. In doing so, we had to take into account the commitments already made and thus provide funds for the contracts already concluded and for the decisions issued on financing or co-financing. Taking this into account and taking into account the projected financial framework for the reduction for 2014, we had to give up all the other measures for which we have not yet committed – these are real contracts or decisions. We are aware of the importance of providing funds for the purpose of maintaining and monitoring the Idrija mine and the funds for mining damage, so we will do our utmost to provide funds for this purpose during the coordination phase. Perhaps the Idri mine maintenance and monitoring contract for 2013 was signed on 26 July 2013, the realisation so far amounted to EUR 530 000, representing approximately 77% of the contract value of EUR 682,000 for maintenance and monitoring of the mine and EUR 245,000 for mining damage. However, this Treaty was signed on 30 August 2013 and there is no realisation to date. We need to work together further, from which means and how to ensure at least the minimum part that is needed in 2014 in order to avoid forgiveness and greater damage. One possibility is to find some of these funds from the European funds, with some preparation of a specific project that would meet the conditions for us to put them on the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u273	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary, who has not satisfied me. I will not take advantage of the business opportunity for a debate in the National Assembly. Only a few days until the adoption of the state budget. The search for European funds five minutes before 12 is not a solution, it can be a long-term solution. For when experts considered in the 1970s how to solve this problem by stopping production in the Idrija mine, one alternative was also the relocation of the whole city of Idrija. They did not choose to do so at that time because this would have to do with too much costs. They therefore went into a gradual abandonment of mining and a definitive and permanent halt to mining works and the closure of Idria, which also included the continued maintenance of the unspoiled part of the mine, the drainage of the mine and the observation of how these closing works were done. Mr Minister, this is not the solution that has been drawn up for this answer at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. I think it is necessary to provide funds in the state budget. These funds were provided in the State budget, the 2013 budget in force includes these funds, including the 2014 budget in force; they are said to have already been in the state budget. So you have a few more days to consider not playing with the fate of the city of Idria, with its inhabitants, with the security of the city itself, for surely there can be a destruction of the part of the city, to the deluge of the part of the city. I don't think that's an option. You have a few more days to try and find a solution. There is also a meeting of the municipal council on Wednesday, where we will discuss it, and you are also invited to explain it to the municipal councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u275	I wouldn't have anything to add. What I said was practically everything. For the next year, there is no funding available for this, and we will try, clearly, where else to find funds. But the situation is that we have cut practically only what is not contracts and conclusions, because it is not just this area, it is also other areas, so I have nothing left to add.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u276	Thank you very much. We continue with Mr Borut Ambrožić's question, which raises the question to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u277	Thank you for your word, Madam President. All present and, above all, both present ministers are also welcome. I'm going to ask the referee two questions this time, in the first and second rounds. Allow me to begin by explaining the first question. The departure of an individual to postgraduate studies abroad is, despite the many opportunities offered by programmes such as Erasmus and related directions allowing for exchange or departure, co-financed departures to acquire knowledge in foreign countries, linked to a number of costs, the collection of relevant documentation, great stress and uncertainty from an unknown or new living, working environment, and in particular the study environment. In the home countries, i.e. Slovenia, where young people or even fewer young people go to studies and [[or work abroad, the authorities would like to boast that they would like as many experts and educators as possible after the study has been completed; and]] or work abroad to return home and thereby contribute to the development of our country with their intellectual and creative capital. Is that true in practice? According to available data, 116 thousand 600 unemployed were registered in Slovenia until 31 August, and some of them, including young people, sought their opportunity and wanted to succeed abroad. That is why I would like to refer to the recognition of education for the purpose of employment in particular with my question. As is known, recognition procedures for the purpose of employment may be the initial requirement of the holder of a foreign instrument to submit on a prescribed form with the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. A special chapter, as you know, is the employment of foreign doctors in the Republic of Slovenia, for which it forms the legal basis of the published law on the recognition of professional qualifications, which provides for the recognition of qualifications for a doctor, a specialist doctor, dental medicine doctor and dental medicine specialist. But we'll talk about this another time. That is why I am returning to the recognition of education for the purpose of employment. The applicant for recognition of education for the purpose of employment may use the name or address obtained abroad on the basis of a decision issued by the Secretariat. So far, everything is fine and good in theory, but when, in practice, there is still too often a failure and an investor in a bureaucratic maze of forms in the process of despairing and rejoining the group, we could tell the refugee brain or migrants about whom the school profession likes to talk about. The arguments of the leader of the procedure, such as that the study programme of both universities differ significantly, that additional differential examinations are needed and so on, according to many, it is unfair to favour domestic public education institutions from outsiders. A special chapter, however, is the cost of recognition of education, which is significantly higher than abroad. The Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European Region, [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] published in the Official Journal, provides, inter alia, that the right to education is a right and that higher education contributes greatly to the acquisition and development of knowledge. That's why I'm asking the Minister. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u278	Thank you so much for asking. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u279	Madam Vice President, honourable Members! Thank you very much for that question. I will not bore you with a legal basis, you have already mentioned it, it is a law you adopted in 2011, not in this national assembly, but in the previous one, and this is the basis for recognition and evaluation of education. What you are saying is only a matter of terminology, as it were, nostrations as such have been unknown since 2005. If we look at the genealogy of this process or the process that is going on, we can see that by bringing Europe together, by establishing a single higher education space, by also establishing a single and not least research space, and so on – at least as far as the countries within the European Union and whose cases you cited, Erasmus and so on, as our people are leaving – are simplifying. Such a process certainly runs in the direction of simplification. I agree with you that this process is not yet completely without obstacles, but I cannot agree that this is the way to favour domestic public education – it has never been possible. It is only and only to determine at the professional level whether someone abroad has carried out the programme on both the scale and the content that is comparable to one of the domestic public programmes. It is not necessary that this programme, this publicly applicable programme, is taught, for example, at a public university, can also be taught in private. Thus, it is not in any case favouritism of Slovenian public education, as you said. You are right to say that for regulated professions, health care and so on, there is a special procedure. By 1 June 2014, applicants shall have the opportunity to submit this application for proceedings with our Ministry. As from 1 June 2014, I speak for regulated professions, I will have to invest it with the competent ministry, which is responsible for a specific profession. My general opinion is that we are going in the direction of simplifying procedures. Last but not least, we keep trying. I can also report to you that, for example, in the framework of the talks we have with the countries of the Western Balkans, we are also discussing with them, at least for one of them, a pilot project that would allow the recognition and evaluation of education to be done in a slightly simpler way and so on. If you ask me, the process is going in the right direction, but I agree that it may not be completely without obstacles. As far as forms and attachments are concerned, I think, given that I've been doing a little bit of this in my previous job, I think it's moderate. However, many more forms need to be attached to other roles that are much smaller or less important. Thus, at least as far as higher education institutions are concerned, I can tell you that in those applications concerning the continuation of education, they are absolutely trying to do most of the research themselves, most of the work they have to do, and that applicants do not have to file mountains of documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u281	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad we're both of the same. That is why my question was so raised that we find together that it would ultimately be extremely unfair if there were some kind of favouritism in practice. However, my question also arose because of some of my personal experience with individuals who described this cross path themselves in the past when they faced it, even in some case, which almost did not appear in the Si section, but in time the applicant gave up this recognition because in the interim period it was found or found that the referee at the Ministry had been calling for a university outside the European Union for a month, forgetting that there was a 9-hour time difference between us and them and, in the end, they doubted that this college, where he had been a master and would have gladly accepted him in any European Union country, did exist. Such things would be desirable if future applicants were no longer involved, especially in view of the era of globalisation and the electronic link we are witnessing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. That's true from that category. That's not true, but it is. In any case, thank you for your warning. He thinks that my colleagues and colleagues at the ENIC-NARIC Centre will hear this warning, the instructions in the law are clear, the instructions from the implementing acts too, so it is known that we must work as quickly as possible and in the interests of the user. Thank you for that warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Now we continue with the questions of the Member States. He will next place Matevž Frangež to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology mag. Stan Stepichnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u285	Minister! With regard to the matter that we will discuss today, we have already written several times over written questions, either to you or to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, concerning the protection of rights for consumers, consumer advice and the implementation of the so-called European Consumer Centre project. Your ministry's service, the Ministry of Economy and Technology's Internal Audit Service, as well as the Anti-Corruption Commission, have found that there are many things wrong behind this field, to say the least. The invitation to tender and the invitation to tender was closed by non-election and you decided, as you said in response to the question of Mrs Katarina Hočevar, that you had somehow agreed to take over the European Consumer Centre project directly in the implementation of the Ministry of Economy and Technology Development. What exactly did you mean when you said that you had, I quote, "in some way agreed"? Please explain to the National Assembly: On behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, who appointed the Ministry of Economy and Technology Development as the institution of the European Consumer Centre? And: Who has decided to apply to the European Union’s invitation to tender for IGRT? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u287	Thank you so much for asking. Mr Frangež, you know how this agreement came about that you could not and could never agree neither the PIP nor the Consumers' Union. With regard to the question raised, I would like to make it clear that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has been a Ministry of Economic Development and Technology since 30. 8. 2013 in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 71/ 13 published the repeal of the invitation to tender for the selection of the host organisation and the co-financing of the European Consumer Centre in the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, which was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 53/13 and invitation to tender for the award of a public service concession, advice to consumers published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 53/12. The cancellation of those tenders was also published on the website of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the cancellation of the tenders was also notified to the notifier on both tenders. With regard to the call for the selection of a host organisation for the functioning of the European Consumer Centre, it is necessary to clarify that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has in 2013 prepared and published a call for proposals in a timely manner, taking into account the Commission's recommendations to prevent corruption with regard to extending the range of potential applicants to tender. However, the call for the selection of the host organisation and the co-financing of the operation of the European Consumer Centre in the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015 was cancelled due to new risk elements relating to the procedures before the competent authorities relating to the past allocation of funds for the operation of the European Consumer Centre in Slovenia. In order to ensure Slovenia's participation in the EPC in 2014, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, as the competent ministry, has sufficient experience in the field of consumer protection, both at national and international level, has applied to the Executive Agency for Health and Consumers, EAHC, for the functioning of the European Consumer Centre in the Republic of Slovenia in 2014. According to EAHC data, two thirds of those in which European Consumer Centres operate within the government sector are among the Member States. These countries are Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland and Portugal. In neighbouring Croatia, the European Consumer Centre is already operating within the government sector, hosted by the Ministry responsible for consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u289	Dear Minister, the invitation to tender was not unsuccessful because the two organisations failed to agree on each other. The invitation to tender was unsuccessful because the Ministry of Economy, which you run, did not adopt on the basis of indisputable facts of the decision. Organisations cannot agree on the distribution of public funds, they can apply for tender and the Ministry or the State must also decide on the basis of this tender. Mr Minister, be aware that a number of procedures are under way with regard to the past allocation of such funds, including to OLAF, the European Investigative Authority, in view of the assumption that these funds have been allocated in the past also to the deception of the European Union. The Republic of Slovenia should choose an executive organisation for this project through a transparent and transparent procedure, i.e. through a call for proposals. This has not been done in the past and these funds have certainly been allocated inadvertently and illegally. However, I am afraid that by somehow agreeing that this activity will be taken over by the Ministry of the Economy, regardless of the experience and internal reserves the Ministry has, you have done likewise. The resolution on the National Consumer Protection Programme clearly provides for the transfer from the activity of the European Consumer Centre to the implementation of a non-governmental consumer organisation. What would be necessary here is to ensure the correctness of the invitation to tender and to select that tenderer that meets all the conditions. Mr. Minister, in your reply, you've registered me as the founder of the PIP Department. I am not the founder of the Institute of PIP, but it is true that, as President of the University of Maribor Student Organisation, I led activities to establish this organisation. To date, it has been shown that this organisation has also demonstrated in the detection of corruption at the Ministry of the Economy [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u291	Thank you so much for the other part. To this second part, he replied: A public tender for the award of a concession for the management of the public advisory service to consumers, which was published in July 2012, was withdrawn after the decision on the selection of the concessionaire by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia awarded a concession for the management of the public advisory service to consumers of the Union of Consumers of Slovenia was appealed by the unelected applicant of the Institute of PIP, which opened a legal dispute against the decision. In its judgment on this case, the Administrative Court ruled that the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be repealed and that the decision should be returned to the Authority in a reopened procedure. In view of the above and because of the sharp budgetary constraints, the Ministry decided to cancel the invitation to tender. The public consumer advice service, which has been implemented by the Ministry since March 2011 under Article 15, paragraph 2, of the Regulation on concessions for the provision of public consumer advice, will continue to be carried out by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Here you go. You have a procedural, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u293	Allow me, by violating the procedural and conscious violation of the Resolution on the National Programme, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u294	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the first round of questions sent. We are moving on to the second round of questions sent. They'll be started by a magician. Ivan Vogrin, who will ask the Minister for Infrastructure and Space, Mr Sam Omerzel. Here you go, Mr. Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens! Let's try to put ourselves in the position of a citizen who built a thief, some background, a garage, he didn't have a permit. These are thousands, tens of thousands — each good Slovenian puts something near the house or near the house. Of course, he doesn't have permission because we just learned some bad manners. Then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, say 1. 3. 2013, it adopts a regulation that this object can be legalised in an easy way. 20. 3. this Regulation is still slightly amended and the Regulation is in force. However, since there are some external circumstances that I would not like to talk about, the next government will repeal this regulation. A large number of citizens and citizens have applications in administrative units for the simple legalisation of this facility, which has also enabled this regulation to be repealed. And what are these citizens and citizens now? Black builders! Imagine the country we live in! Within a month, they themselves will register — I don't know, the Minister will know how many, thousands or hundreds — citizens and citizens who, with a regulation then in force and functioning, we promised them that they would be able to legalise and obtain all the permits. In fact, the question arises as to what country we live in; now that this government has done so, another government will be something else and so on. In my behavior, it's a little unacceptable. I'll read what I wrote here on the basis of some consultations. There is a reasonable suspicion that the State authority has consciously informed citizens when it has destroyed the previously cited existing regulation on the basis of which many citizens have applied for a building permit or for the legalisation of the buildings in question and have in fact applied themselves. I ask the Minister the following questions: What will he do to prevent our taxpayers, citizens who are in good faith — wanting good, just as the regulation had a good purpose — from being repeatedly beaten in the head and in the pockets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u297	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr Vogrin, thank you for the question. Today, quite a few words have already been said on the subject of regulating the premises and building the buildings. It is true that this is a complex area, and it is true that a very large part of it is disorderly or not arranged in the way you would like it to be — very complicated procedures. If we go to that general part first, what are we gonna do? On the one hand, we only have processes from the moment the investor or the one who would like to build imagine that he would build, until the moment he gets the building permit, and on the other hand we have legislation; on the other hand, the four top laws cover the entire area of space regulation and construction. We have prepared thorough regulatory changes for the regulation of the premises and the construction of the buildings, and this proposal will shortly be in government. We have come up with a comprehensive concept of how once this complex area, where we have space and facilities, to arrange on the one hand processes to be simple and friendly to investors, on the other hand, that we have this legislation regulated. We have set ourselves the task of having a draft law ready next year, which is March next year, and indeed preparing it so that once and for all we can manage this area in Slovenia. As far as this famous Article 8 of the Regulation is concerned, I must correct you here. In fact, this Article 8 was really, I believe, well-intentioned, but it caused a lot of confusion in Slovenia. This Article 8 referred to the compatibility of simple objects. What was misunderstood is that people actually understood it as a principle of legalization and were quick to report objects that had nothing to do with a simple object. That's why we got this number of self-reported objects in some way, but they don't really have to do with a simple object. We really need to be careful here. This wasn't about any legalization. We talked only about simple objects. For those who by definition do not fall under simple objects and have been declared, it will, of course, be necessary to see whether they have legalisation options or not. Because if we have an object standing in a space where there's nothing in conflict with urbanist acts, then I don't see any difficulty in legalizing such an object. However, if an object, such as an apartment house, is located in an agricultural area where there is absolutely no basis in the spatial plans for it to stand there, of course it will not be possible to legalise it. Once again, this famous Article 8 refers to simple objects and not generally to some legalisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u299	Mr. Secretary, I agree with you. The confusion in Slovenia is really perfect. I remember when I would still be mayor; for the municipality to change the municipal spatial plan, it takes five years or more, in some cases even less. This is the problem with this beautiful little country of ours, because we are the greatest enemies of ourselves. This is completely different in neighbouring Austria. They say I'm an unrelated Member. This is a misdirection, I am an independent Member, but I am very connected with my citizens. Look, people are sending e-mails and they're saying, "Let's get this country in line with the example of neighbouring Austria." Almost literally rewrite the legislation! Therefore, we need to have one metre of documentation as a building permit and two centimetres in Austria. This is a problem, and I am not saying that you are responsible for the problem — far from it! That's a systemic problem. But I think we should do something different. You are now a minister and you have this opportunity to simplify legislation. In particular, I would appeal in a different sense; see, the current events indicate that we enjoy it most if we bring down something. Even if it's a beautiful object that fits into the environment, just like it was in Bohinj and so on. I'd like to ask you to have a little influence on your ministerial team and your circle of influence. Let's stop this! Rather, let us prescribe compensation for people, go to the state budget, and act more prudently in the future. Because this self-destruct charge is almost out of bounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Secretary, for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vogrin, for this additional comment. I must say that I am really glad that I have not been in any government before, that I am glad that I have not been among the Members and in any way connected with the functioning of this public administration. It's true that ever since I became a minister, I've been dealing with problems that have accumulated for 20 years. But not only in the area of regulating space and facilities, but in all areas: in the field of energy, we have been given Europe to write an energy law that should have been made long ago; in the area of infrastructure, we are dealing with an investment in a second track, which is three times re-designated and will need to be re-established, also in regulating the premises and facilities in this area. But what I want to say and what I want to say: yes, we save and regulate everything that hasn't settled in 20 years. I don't even want to let myself go into why in 20 years we haven't been able to arrange this place and respect it so that we can function, and I don't want to go into the facts, why it didn't work out, and I think it's a waste of energy to explore it. What is important is that in this short period of time, since I am the Minister, we have prepared a complete justification, a thorough proposal for a regulatory change in the regulation of space and the environment; and we will also do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Vogrin, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u303	I have a procedural proposal. I think that this area is really so complex and decides on our life and work, the standard, the possibility of building development, that it would make sense to have a general debate. And one more thing, if I may add, is I still have a little time. I really don't envy your position because I was mayor of two terms and I know what it means to break through these bureaucratic procedures. That is why my very modest advice — you know what I think governments have done wrong so far? Only that they thought that every time a position was right. Wrong! Mature people, mature governments invite a wide range of experienced people to participate. And if I may give you some advice: invite people who are not in the current position, but in the opposition who have a lot of experience. I talk to people and people know — or do they seem to know — how it would be advisable to solve what it is like to bring these practices to Slovenia. Look, imagine you're the mayor of a congregation. Some investor would invest, buy land, build, and take five years to change the spatial plan. And he's already in so many other countries and that's the problem! [[...]] We're gonna have to do something to have something to live off. The budget is not created at the Ministry of Finance, at no ministry, but in the economy; at what they build, what they create, etc. This is a fundamental problem and I remind you of it. This is my mission, and thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Now we are moving on to the next question put by the Magi. Marko Pogačnik to Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mag. Stan Stepichnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u305	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister! Now it was very interesting to follow your point of view, your discussions before you took up the mandate of the Minister for the Economy, including the announcements before that and the promises made at the hearing were mainly in the direction of moving towards the start of the economy, for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, but unfortunately all the measures you have taken as Minister of the Economy, which were taken within the framework of the government of Alenka Bratušek, show exactly the opposite. Most of your proposed or adopted measures actually involve new burdens on the economy, mainly in the direction of increasing taxes, towards worsening the entrepreneurial environment. Slovenian companies are losing their competitiveness, and this is also true of all the scales published. The number of unemployed is increasing; compared to last year, August or September, the number of unemployed increased by about 10,000. The balance of the budget that you have adopted is highly underdeveloped; Slovenia will not lead out of the crisis and will not open new jobs. Above all, it is interesting that in addition to the opposition, your actions are also criticised by the economicists. Most of your actions, most of your proposals have never been supported by economists. At the beginning of August, given that the government of Alenka Bratušek and you, as Minister of Economy, did not do much or did more than burden the economy, the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Association of Employers issued a document of Oxygen for the economy, which they also sent to the Government and you as Minister of Economy. In it we can find 24 measures that are structured somehow in these 4 groups, and this is actually the view of economists, how they see what measures should be taken in order to somehow open up new jobs in order to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. It must be realized that without the economic recovery, we cannot expect strong social policies or a balanced public finances. In particular, something should be done to increase the revenue side of the budget. I want to know: How do you, as Minister of the Economy, view this document? What measures in this document will you, as Minister of Economy of the Government, advocate to confirm them or send them to the National Assembly for adoption?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u307	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, the economy is not a philosophy, but it is hard work and the results show only when something grows but rather must be sown. Three things are important for the economy, especially in the long run. First of all, at this point, the ability to credit the economy. Secondly, the regulation of capital adequacy of good export companies with buyers, markets and their research development capacity, human resources potential. And a third to stimulate them to increase added value. These are three very important things in the long run. Indeed, fire drills are also involved when certain companies need to be helped to survive these six months, are engaged in business, financial, developmental restructuring and continue their mission with some limited content, but are financially strong enough. For example, in the first measure, when it comes to confidence in Slovenia – Slovenia cannot get long-term loans, so it cannot lend long-term loans to companies, but it can borrow short-term loans. Businesses are returning it. Last year, companies had to repay 2.5 billion of these loans to banks to return their loans abroad. This prevents companies from having a good liquidity picture, prevents them from expanding their business process and hiring new people. Moreover, what is most difficult: such a liquidity trap due to the inadequate capital adequacy of these companies, to make the company very inefficient and unreliable to foreign economic systems. This needs to be fixed. What have we done so far? A lot of work has been put in to make this credit crunch feel better. A contract was signed with the SID Bank for financial engineering, which is credits to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises amounting to EUR 500 million. These 500 million euros do not move or opposition, not the Chamber of Commerce, not the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, not the Chamber of Tourism! They're not moving anybody! I don't know what this Slovenia is!? She seems to have somehow gone deaf when it comes to a truly important achievement in an area. Not that it's just 500 million! Since this is a revolving loan, another 500 million will be wiped out within 10 years of lending the money in three weeks. It is said that it is about lending EUR 1 billion to the economy. This is the first system measure, which is designed to draw companies that are "drivers", towing horses in Slovenia, export-oriented, buyers, markets, mainly through exports. The other is capital adequacy. After examining 3 000 500 companies in Slovenia after various business, financial and other indicators, including employment and so on, one third of these companies are very good, have a good business strategy but are undercapitalised. They have little equity, barely anywhere between 25 and 35%. If we do not equalise this capital mismatch of companies when banks are also being rehabilitated, when banks via the Banks Claims Management Company have write-offs of their bad claims, then if we don't settle it in these good companies, the banks will not lend money to these companies because they have a bad financial picture. Therefore, it is now also working to improve this capital adequacy. For the first time, it works through legislation, a systemic extension, the second time that we and the SID bank are talking about a mechanism, a scheme to help businesses even when commercial banks convert their loans into equity shares. This is an urgent matter to be done. It also works a lot on legislation, as several laws have been passed, amendments to laws that help to eventually implement what we want to achieve as a better support environment in the economy. The third is that we need to motivate and stimulate businesses in increasing added value. But maybe it's about competitiveness and then it's about competitiveness.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Pogačnik, do you wish to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u309	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Economy, I have not received a concrete answer to my question. Here it goes, I'd say, more than just a lecture, what the economy should know about what it doesn't. With the Oxygen for the Economy document prepared by the institutions, you are probably familiar with it; I hope you have read it. I asked you specifically: Which of the twenty-four measures prepared by the institutions do you, as Minister of the Economy, support or propose to the government of Alenka Bratušek to confirm them? Everything else has been, in fact, what we've been hearing from you since you've been in this position. I understand that you have been teaching such things here as a Member, but concrete measures are now actually expected. It is important that your actions you are taking do not primarily support the economy. All right, five hundred million loans via the AIDS, that's fine; but in all the other parts that you've done, it's actually causing damage to the Slovenian economy. Undoubtedly, there is clear evidence that it is mainly or some companies who decide to move production to foreign countries — Macedonia. For example, Akrapovich made it clear: do not invest in Slovenia! I'd say it's a matter of concern. And once again, the well-respected Minister of Economy: What measures do you support as Minister of the Economy from the Oxygen for the Economy document? How do you comment on the statement made by the president of the Committee on the Economy, which stated that the member of Positive Slovenia is a "minestra and wet wish of economists"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u311	Thank you for asking. All measures, positions, opinions that contribute to economic growth are welcome. All measures to be taken must also have objectives, each measure must aim at what will happen in the economy: whether the added value will increase, whether the job will be maintained, or whether a new job will be created. Tell me which of these measures has these objectives. The Ministry of Economy will implement all measures that are so targeted. If these objectives are not merely general measures: we need to get out of the crisis, we need to increase the added value, we need to do this and this and this are, I would say, some principled measures, but they are not targeted. [[...]] We want targeted measures, what will happen if this measure is met. Now it's about competitiveness. The Slovenian economy is actually falling on the competitiveness scale. But why is it falling on the competitiveness scales? It falls because we do not update, we innovate our products, products or services. Only 25% of businesses are currently renovating, innovating, improving their products. That's what they say. The picture's even worse. We're gonna fall even worse. On the other hand, the knowledge that companies with institutions that Slovenia has invested in for the last 5 years do not find the final product does not reach the final product. Here, too, we have put forward proposals for a few measures, we are talking with the Ministry of Education about how knowledge would come to the final product. We will also create a supportive environment at the Ministry of Economy, a call where we will encourage businesses to make sure that the knowledge that hangs somewhere or is stored in some stock comes to the end of the product. Once this knowledge reaches its final product, then we will be able to sell these final products more competitively on the market, meet the needs of our customers or even create new needs for our customers with new products. This is the Ministry of Economy and also the Government's task of preparing a supportive environment to increase competitiveness. And that's what's waiting for us now as a third task. The second is capital adequacy and the third is competitiveness. However, greater competitiveness will be achieved if there is a greater added value. That's what happens in the company when you subtract material and services from your income and you're left with wages and more. And more than the share of wages in certain companies, products, more value added tax, more will the state have, more will the company have, more workers and trade unions will have. Now that's the job to do. Slovenia lacks high-tech products with high added value. You have forgotten to say that we have extremely many products with low added value, or that we are moving the material at home. Instead of making that piece of material he's using [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u313	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, before asking you this question, I did not mean to take advantage of these business options, but in view of the fact that I did not get, I would say, to any of my questions of a concrete answer on your part, I would suggest to the National Assembly that at one of the following meetings, a broader discussion should be held on the Oxygen for the Economy document prepared by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Trade Association, the Employers' Association and the Association of Managers. It seems very sad to me that of the 24 measures he has proposed, I would say, the flower of the Slovenian economy, all together, all associations, could not list any measures to support it. It is even more worrisome that you support measures that are targeted. This means that you have said that none of these 24 measures are targeted. That's really worrying. I think you also agree with what your party member, the president of the Committee on the Economy said, is that "this is a document on the floor and that it is a wet wish of economists". You said, "We will support those measures that are targeted." In your opinion, none of these measures are targeted. It is very sad that we have such an economy minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the next question raised by Mr Borut Ambrožič, and he will put it to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u315	Thank you, again, for your word. Greetings to all ministers and colleagues present! The question, or explanation, is as follows: the Emuni University is also included in the list of institutions that are listed in higher education institutions in the Republic of Slovenia. Article 16 of the Higher Education Act provides that a higher education institution may enter into an activity when it is entered into a register of higher education institutions. But how is this in the case of EMUNI University? On the website www.emuni.si it is written that "the universe mainly carries out all its activities at its headquarters......" — interestingly, the text itself contains two questions” – in Portorož, where space conditions are for some of the activities. However, where additional premises are needed, they shall be leased in nearby academic institutions." Otherwise, these rooms are located on the fourth floor of the Diažko dom Portorož in the form of 10 offices and classrooms. The following can be found on the same website of the above-mentioned important dates relating to this educational institution, which represents the international association of universities based in Slovenia: February 2009 the entry of the EMUNI University in the Register of Justice, the same year the accreditation of the first study programme which has already been accredited at the University of Maribor, at the EMUNI University, the same year the entry into the register of higher education institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, becomes the institution of Erasmus University Charter, and then two years later, two years later, the two programmes of Master's Studies, business communication in intercultural and environmental analysis and management, which were listed in the Ministry of Higher Education. Under the chapter Vision, it is also written on this same website: "The International Euro-Mediterranean University, based in Slovenia, will contribute significantly to the development of higher education and research space and to the sustainable development of the wider socio-economic and cultural environment in the EUROMED countries, as well as to the visibility of Slovenia in the region – the Union for the Mediterranean." In order to realize this vision, as mentioned on the website, the State of the Republic of Slovenia committed approximately EUR 400 000 in 2013, a similar amount a year earlier, in 2011 EUR 440 000, in 2010 EUR 550 000, and the European Commission committed a million euros to the establishment of the EMUNI University at the end of 2009. Currently EMUNI University in Slovenia has three study programmes and one in the accreditation process. None of these, however, are yet implemented in practice, although six postgraduate study programmes on topics related to the Euro-Mediterranean region should be launched under the Treaty of Establishment. Would it not make sense to focus these funds on financing or subsidising university, public or private study programmes whose degree of employability can be understood from publicly available data and, unlike EMUNI, have already generated new graduates or postgraduate academics? That's why I'm asking. [[....]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u317	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Member, thank you very much for this question. I must say that I am grateful, because this is one of those I have been dealing with since the first day I joined the Ministry. EMUNI, of course, is not a common higher education institution and is even less common university. As you yourself have found, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is the result of this commitment. It is not ordinary because it has both its external policy component and its educational or educational research component. The external political component, we know that this is actually the only project of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore so much more important that the Republic of Slovenia carries out in the Mediterranean. Therefore, in all my discussions with foreign representatives, not least in August with the representative of the Union, the Secretary-General of the Union for the Mediterranean, there is always one and the same message: the Republic of Slovenia will continue to maintain this project, as far as possible, because it is externally one of those projects that place us in the Mediterranean country and we must continue it accordingly. However, this project has a second part of the story, and this is where I very much agree with you, i.e. the teaching-research part where we do not achieve commitments and not results. Since the first day I came to the Ministry, we have started in this regard with activities leading towards EMUNI University starting its work next year with at least one programme. At this point, I honestly don't know if we're going to make it yet, but in any case, all of these programs that you've listed as being accredited, all of these programs that are on display, we can start. We are talking with the University of Primorsk, so that the University of Primorsk may provide technical capacity; in short, all that the university needs to teach – we are talking about the registration system, we are talking about administration, we are talking not least about classrooms and so on, all of these problems that you have highlighted. There is no final agreement yet, but we are certainly in agreement with the University of Primorska. But if you ask me, I personally think that two things need to be done; one is about the organization itself or about the institutional structure of this institution or university itself. We need to give new impetus, not least by appointing Mrs Tamara Vonta to the university's board of directors, we wanted to give a message that we want a new start, of course, as far as this is concerned. On the other hand, a new impetus also in terms of the acquisition of foreign funds, networking, because it is in some way – I am not saying that it is de jure, but in some ways an international organisation, needs someone who has an important reputation in this international space, which in this way networks, if possible, bring in some additional money, because these budgetary resources that you have cited are not enough to finance the entire drive. In short, someone who with his reputation can attract money, students, professors and so on. As it is said, I think it will take some time for the programmes to actually start at EMUNI University. Last but not least in this step, it is necessary to sign contracts with contractors, to get students, to organise space, registration and all that the educational or educational research programme needs. EMUNI has also begun to wonder about the mode of vivendi of its own existence, and I can report accordingly that – I think – 21 and 22 November will be a strategic conference to discuss the future of EMUNI. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u319	Thank you for the information provided, to which, at least some, there is no public access, which is why I am even more pleased with what I have said. I am also convinced that the appointment of former Ambassador Tamara Vonta, who, as far as I am aware, will continue her educational path postgraduately, will contribute to some continuity. Nevertheless, as you yourself have mentioned, the external and internal political component of the EMUNI operation is precisely this internal political component, I would say the appointment of individual political stakeholders. Even in the past, as you know, in the governing structure of the EMUNI universities there have been some officials of past or semi-existence governments, so I would say that I somehow do not understand these logics personally. However, as far as foreign policy is concerned, the damage has already occurred when the previous government has somehow prevented or decided that Slovenia will no longer be a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean or Mediterranean States with regard to the remaining funds allocated to this university, which have been quoted today, but at that time it has been 30 000 euros of annual membership, where this network or the social network of representatives of the countries could also help to obtain additional funds for the smooth functioning of this university. While I personally welcome all kinds of interdisciplinary action, participation by both public and private educational institutions, as has already been said today, are welcome. Someone once said, and I'm happy to say this quote, "It doesn't matter if we're talking about public or private education, but it's important that education is quality." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u321	Thank you very much. For understandable reasons, I will not comment on the decisions of other governments, let someone else do it. What I'm interested in as a district minister is when. Not "if," but "when" the first program will work, when he will have teachers and when he will have the first students. This is absolutely necessary from this point of view. Also, if we start under certain reduced conditions, but it is important that the program, and any of the already accredited and listed programs, and any programme, start already. We are taking all activities in such an absolute way that these programmes are implemented as soon as possible. This is our first priority, because, like you, I think, enough money has been invested in this institution and the programmes, so I won't say too much, and it's time for that to be the result. However, as for the personnel or other personnel, and I can assure you that this is not the only thing, other cities will also open up, and my purpose – as mandates will take place because of this – is that some of the people, in particular those I spoke of earlier, with a great international reputation, we will also seek out an international call, if necessary. In short, people with serious experiences in the academic world, with long careers, in short, with someone who really wants to do this. However, I must say that we are also somewhat in communication with diplomatic and consular representations in both Slovenia and our abroad, so that we are working on identifying individuals who would be suitable for that other function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u322	Thank you very much. We turn to the next question that will be posed by Janja Attack to the Minister of Culture, Dr. Uroš Grilc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u323	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister! The Library Act, which was established in 2001, enabled Slovenian libraries to develop and improve their library activities more rapidly. After more than a decade, however, the need for changes to the law is necessary, since the law in practice no longer meets all the expectations and does not strengthen the library system. The problems have been demonstrated in the overall library coordinated development and efficient flow or accessibility of information. Librarians and citizens complain about the lack of connectivity and network development and the implementation of processes and services. In addition, the functioning of the central libraries introduced by the Library Act did not reduce the differences in development between library areas. In addition, librarians and citizens lack connectivity between central district libraries and libraries in their areas. Most of the changes would be necessary to realize the available resources of agreed funding, which was uneven between local communities and the country. Last year, the Ministry of Culture prepared the Strategy for the Development of Slovenian General Libraries 2013-2020, which was established on the basis of the baselines for the preparation of the general library strategy for the same period. The strategy is also intended to combine the performance of the area tasks in the central regional libraries themselves. At that time, it was found, as I have already said, that funding was uneven and, of course, the result of the uneven development of general libraries. To strengthen the modern general library in local areas, consideration would need to be given to the rational organisation of the general library funding network. I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: How will you fulfil the obligations laid down in the law on co-financing of certain functions of general libraries? How will you specifically prevent the uneven development of local communities and the development of Slovenian libraries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Dr. Grills, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u325	Dear President, all five honourable Members, dear colleagues! Thank you so much for asking. The development of the library network is one of the main issues not only for culture, but also for the area of quality of life in specific local environments, the quality of implementation of the lifelong learning process and the general level of democratisation of society. For many years, libraries have not only been the places where we go to borrow books and magazines, but, of course, they are the source of access to all kinds of information, knowledge, skills, social gathering points and, in this sense, an extremely important foundation for the democratisation of society. According to your questions, first correction: The Strategy for the Development of Slovenian General Libraries 2013-2020 was written by a group of experts and experts within the Association of General Libraries, which is an independent organisation. However, this strategy has been supported by the Ministry of Culture, as we believe it is very important that all the developmental debates within each area take place as far as possible within the profession. Of course, the library profession is one of the more organised. The Law on Local Self-Government provides that the library service is the original task of local communities. This means that each congregation must have an orderly library service: either establishing its own library, or establishing several municipalities, establishing a common library, or transferring a particular congregation to one of the libraries nearby where this is possible. All three options exist. Of course, this also means, and this in practice is also the first co-financing of library activities by local communities. They are the ones who cover virtually all the resources for the library, they are the ones who cover the funds for wages and for a few programs, including the purchase of library material. The role of the State under the Library Act is to take care of the maximum quality of the library network in such a way that the state co-finances through public procurement of library material, various lifelong learning programmes in libraries, various programmes for the development of reading culture, information labelling, access to resources and so on. The aim of the State is also to provide access to global information sources and to carry out inter-library borrowing of domestic and foreign libraries. Of course, libraries, like the rest of the public sector, have recently been subject to a tightening of public finances in recent years, but I hope to say that this is one of the most robust cultural systems. One of those who has recorded developments in all years, progress on all indicators of success, development of the library network, membership, number of loans, number of events, of course, does not mean that the library network is not constantly facing problems of unequal demographic hazard, which is in some way the nature of Slovenia itself. Here I should briefly mention what the Slovenian library network represents. In addition to the NUK, the Slovenian library network comprises 58 separate general libraries operating in the area of one or more municipalities, manages and covers a network of 265 urban and local libraries, 12 bibliobuses with stations in 578 locations and 77 locations of mobile collections. A review of the operation of the general libraries in 2012, we have very good information provided by the parent service for general libraries at NUK, talks about the fact that about a quarter of the population are involved in the library, that each member borrows about 51.2 units of library material annually, and that the library network held 23,000 events last year to strengthen the reading culture, to increase the use of materials in its collections and so on. The main development document of the Ministry of Culture and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of cultural development is the National Programme for Culture, where we have, of course, also written down measures concerning the future development of libraries in focus [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u327	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. If this is the responsibility of local communities or municipalities, then I am interested in how you network, the ministry, how you then network with the municipalities, because some concrete measure probably has to exist. Because you are also required by law to co-finance certain functions of general libraries. For libraries to function well or to modernize themselves, to work modernly, these resources need to be allocated a little bit better than they have been so far. In the 2013-2020 Strategy for the Development of Slovenian General Libraries, modernisation of information systems is essential for the future, given changes in the profession and society. It is somehow known to Slovenia that citizens are more difficult to accept or in some way less likely to follow the development of a global information society, so a change from the situation of more modern technologies would be necessary. The supply of electronic and audio books is a strategy that would serve as a tool for changing the situation of modern technologies and a more rational flow of knowledge. In particular, younger users of library services want to adapt to changes in society. How will you provide for the need to change library activities? How will you verify the achievement of the agreed objectives – including with local communities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u329	Thank you very much. I keep going where I left off. The National Programme for Culture is, by law, a strategic document for the development of culture that sets out the basic objectives and measures of how these objectives are achieved in all areas of culture. In the field of library activities, this programme focuses on two basic objectives, increased accessibility of library public service to all people in Slovenia, and identifies some key measures. Three measures are related to spatial issues, specific spatial problems of general libraries in Slovenia. The first concerns the construction of a new NUK building, which is the basis for the development of the library network as a whole, two libraries are identified as priorities in the draft national programme in terms of the provision of an appropriate library public service in specific local environments. It is a library in Maribor – you probably know the problem that is now moving in a positive direction – and a library in Radovljica. These two libraries are identified as key. However, the condition for State funding is that the municipality fulfils the relevant conditions, the criteria in the invitation to tender. Another extremely important step in the next period is to accelerate the coordinated development of general library activities, with incentives for a low-income environment and a less developed library network. Everywhere, in all calls for financing the acquisition of library materials, ICT equipment, or for the financing of programmes, or for the operation of regional libraries, this is a priority criterion for the Ministry of Culture and Libraries in these environments to receive more public funding. That's how it's gonna be in the future. Increasing the quality and accessibility of general library activities with improved new services adapted to the needs of users is, of course, a constant process that concerns and requires the development of the profession. I think the libraries are following this relatively well. As regards digital content, a key step is to further develop the dLib and CAMRA portals. These are two portals that are crucial for the accessibility of digital cultural content through technological and content upgrades, which will become very topical and important for future development.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u330	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the last question of today's parliamentary question that will be posed by the Magi. Majda Purity to Justice Minister Shadow Plitschani.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u331	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My oral question concerns your first performance, Mr Minister, when you were still a candidate in the previous government, and when you discussed how to resolve the situation in Slovenian prisons. I will not touch on what has now come from Europe to say that the complaints of all prisoners are not always justified, this is a substance for any other issue, but I am relying on your question on how to get out of the space crisis, especially the Ljubljana prison in Povšeta, when you mentioned in the world the recognised practice of public-private partnership in the construction of prisons. Your latest developments have also gone in this direction that, according to the budget, it is not possible to count that this embarrassment could otherwise be resolved, and you have said what is the usual practice in solving this problem when it comes to the connection between the public and private. The State gives land to make a lot more, while the privateer pays his interest in supporting activities and rent for the premises he has built. Here all I ask is if it will happen the same way as in old homes, where individuals have to pay part for investment costs. However, the situation is not only insufferable in the opinion of the prisoners for them, but also of the judicial guards, and I ask you, Mr. Minister, on both subjects: What do Slovenian experts say about the priorities and weaknesses of the public-private partnership in prison construction? Is there a need for analysis? In spite of the decrease in the volume of investment, will it be possible at least to renovate and modernise existing facilities? That's on the first topic. On the other hand: How is education and training carried out for the work of law enforcement officers of redistributed customs officers? I'm guessing there's 12 of them so far. When will these new law enforcement officers be trained for operational work? Is additional employment of law enforcement officers envisaged in 2014? Thanks for that first part.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u333	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies Members and Members of Parliament, Mrs. Potter! First things first. The situation, when we have known for a long time in the budget, does not have money for the resolution of spatial distress, especially in the Ljubljana area, but also some others are in a similar not so critical state, in fact, a public-private partnership is the only way to solve this problem. There is no money on one side, at the same time we have overcrowded prisons or two or three in Slovenia. We need to solve this problem and this model of public-private partnership is offered as the only one that can be used. At the same time, there are rich comparative experiences with such a model. It may seem strange to someone that in such an area as prisons, a model like this is also used when a country and a private person step forward and sees a private person in this area as well, but this is much the same across European countries as in the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, not to mention all of this. My colleagues at the Department of Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which, as you know, has been a body within the Ministry that I run, have been doing this for several years, in fact, it may be slightly less intense in recent years, since it was not so obvious at the time that there will not be enough money in the budget for this, but especially intensively, at least since I was Minister. It should be said, however, that in Slovenia there is a general lack of knowledge about public-private partnerships, especially in public-private partnerships in this area. Thus, we have some problems with how to prepare this model so that it will on the one hand enable a solution to the spatial distress and on the other hand that there will be no irregularities, abuses and similar negative phenomena that you may have had in mind when you mentioned the homes of pensioners. But I'm sure we'll make it work. This analysis that you're asking is now ending and I'm counting on you for a month or so, I'm going to go with this material to the government. Then the whole process governed by the Law on Public-Private Partnerships, such a law in Slovenia we have for various public-private partnerships, and for this also some interested parties have been advertised to my predecessors in this ministry in recent years, even since I am a minister, some of this interest has been vested in by various companies working in other countries. We will now step up this process, and I assure you that I will do everything I can to ensure that it is addressed on the one hand to solve the spatial distress and, on the other hand, that public interest is protected. About your other two questions. The second concerns the issue of training judicial officers, in particular customs officers who have been transferred to the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. Here my colleagues have prepared information for me that this training is taking place, otherwise it is prescribed by the Regulation on the Exercise of the Powers and Tasks of the Judicial Police. It flows in such a way that it consists of two parts, from practical and then central training. The first part is currently under way, this is practical training, and in the first half of 2014, central training is planned. In view of the experience so far in the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions Office, it is estimated that the new judicial officers, in particular those who have come from the customs categories, will be trained in this first part, trained for self-employed work on an average of one and a half years after the conclusion of the employment contract. By the end of 2014, they will already be qualified to take over the work and tasks of judicial officers. However, as regards new jobs in 2014, let me say that the Government has approved, despite the situation in which we are just aware that not all parts of the public sector are the same, some are such that they need additional jobs and the prison system is one of them. So the government is 12. 9. 2013 approved the additional employment of 30 new judicial officers in the Directorate for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u335	Thank you, Minister, for that part of the answer. I will start with the judicial officers; in 2012 and 2013 40 left; some of them also from life, some from work alone. On average, those who are aware of the shortage of 50 law enforcement officers per year, that this is a multi-year deficit and that the number of overtime they are carrying out is not all paid, too much to be constantly burdened with. One judicial officer on a hundred prisoners is probably a heavy burden for the one who has to do the job. I am therefore convinced that we should find some agreement between the Slovenian Government's Office for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the Ministry and Trade Unions or employees' representatives, who, however, would respond to the need to strengthen those in operational work, not so much to say, on their own administration. Now, as far as public-private partnership is concerned. Recently, I have heard this information that in America, in such a principle of the public-private partnership for higher-class prisons, an individual pays $135 a day. But if things are going to move so much that we're going to have more and more wealthy prisoners, then co-financing is possible. Mr. Secretary, I was interested in what's best: How many other experts have been involved in these analyses that I ask? Not those who work at the Ministry. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u337	Thank you. I'll start with that last question. So, in addition to the experts from the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, this analysis, which is still being prepared or concluded, includes all those experts in Slovenia, mainly lawyers, including some economists who have acquired in these years, since we have relevant legislation, some experience with public-private partnerships or partnerships. There's a few of them, but there aren't many of them, like I said before. So now it doesn't make sense that I'm referring specifically to institutions and names. But here I can say that in some part I myself have dealt with this in my past career, with this issue of public-private partnerships, of course from a legal point of view. However, when it comes to the first question, namely the issue of the overload of judicial officers and you also mentioned an agreement with the unions, let me say that the agreement with the unions that we reached there sometime before summer includes two key sets. One relates to an increase in the number of judicial officers – and I have achieved this, together with my colleague Virant, this is the 30 new jobs in the coming year, and already these existing new jobs from the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia that have already been carried out this year. We are thus increasing the number of employees in terms of the budgetary capacity available, and this is a significant success, given that we are, however, reducing the number of employees in other parts of the public sector. This is the realisation of the first union deal. However, when you mention an agreement with the unions, we have agreed with them something else, which is also one of the problems in the prison system, but you do not ask about it, but I will mention it, and this is the question of how the work of prisoners is organised. So, prisoners have to be able to work, this is currently being done in Slovenia in the context of public economic institutions, i.e. independent legal persons – five of them, who have all major financial problems, in particular the biggest is in constant loss, so that we will also reorganise this, still have to add resources, because this work of prisoners cannot bring profit or, at some point, it can be done to some extent, most of the works they perform, but not, but we want to do it transparently, so that we will know in advance what this supplement needs to be given to the budget. In short, I want to say that we're negotiating with the unions, we've agreed, and we're already working out agreements with them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Potrata, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u339	Yes, quite unusual for a coalition member to propose a discussion on the Minister's response to the question raised. Not so much because I would have any doubts about the Minister's expertise, which he also referred to when he spoke about the establishment of a public-private partnership; I also know that this is the responsibility of the Minister, but I think this is such a very important issue, because it is not only about lawyers and economists who are familiar with the procedures for establishing a public-private partnership, but it is also about all those professions that are bound up in terms of imprisonment, the suspension of punishment and the execution of sentences. I must say that a number of them believe that the public-private partnership in prisons is not the right solution, regardless of the financial difficulties we have in the budget and the space crisis. Once again, I know that this is your decision. I think you were talking about Logatco as an opportunity where such a prison could also be located, but there are some purely logistical problems here, but it just seems to me that this is such a very important question when once a public-private partnership in prison is established, it will not be possible to separate it. As a Member, I think it is good to take this step, even if I do not gain your approval with this, but that this opportunity of discussion is offered, because we do not have the law to make public representations of the opinions on this law, but perhaps any such debate would be welcome. In particular, because I note that the pennological profession is sometimes a little different from lawyers and economists, including in the field of probation and a lot more in relation to the stay or enforcement of criminal sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-09-23-SDZ6-Redna-17.ana.u340	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We have also concluded today's parliamentary questions with this. The Prime Minister of the Government, who has been with us today, the ministers and the Minister and the Secretary-General of the Government, thank you for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on 24 September 2013, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good evening, as long as it's left. Good luck!
