ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome everyone here. We begin with the continuation of the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mr Dragutin Mate and Mag. Matthew Tonin. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Energy Bill. We continue with the general debate of Members and Members. The first to receive the floor today is Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u2	Thank you, President, for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, a nice greeting on my behalf as well. I must say that yesterday I listened thoroughly to the views of the Group of Members, in particular the views of the Coalition's Group of Members. I must say, I've detected some disunity in the coalition regarding this marriage. I must say that it has been precisely seen which party line this law came from, as my colleague Zvona Černač said yesterday, that the bills are about the same as in 2009, so I must say that I was not surprised by the position of the SD Group, which, more than energy, discussed the first energy pillar and the Shale Valley and opposed all other solutions. But let's leave it at the side, and given that the first treatment, he would have touched three, four things that I think have some meaning in this energy law. First, I would touch on the energy efficiency of buildings and point to the energy cards, where the introduction of the law gives a fine description of what this should bring and even says: "There is a simplification for production [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u3	Mr. Fox, I'm sorry to interrupt. Dear colleagues, the meeting has begun and I ask you kindly for peace in the Chamber to listen to the debater. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u4	Thank you again, President. It says: "A simplification is arranged to produce the cards of existing buildings, thus ensuring an appropriate low cost of production." If we touch on an energy card article, it says: "The cost of producing an energy card must be paid by the owner or the owner of the building. The Minister responsible for Energy shall lay down the criteria for determining the price of the energy card." And more and more. The validity of an energy card is 10 years, and I'm very professionally interested in why 10 years. But there's something else I'd like to point out. In an electronic medium, I noticed the following publication: "After the real estate tax, more energy cards for your property will cost up to EUR 3,000." Then I expect an answer from the Ministry whether these numbers are holding or not. The article says, "Do you think the real estate tax is the end of pulling money out of the real estate owners' pockets?" No, not at all. The state, together with its concessionaire — obviously already selected — has invented another way to extract millions more from the hands of real estate owners. That there will be no mistake, I think, as the European Union has regulated that energy cards are necessary; but what it says below, I think is inadequate or probably unconstitutional. It says: "The highest price for the issue of an energy card will not be fixed, but the Ministry has already prepared the criteria for determining the price. Now you are supposed to be 200 to 500 euros for a one-house house and from 2,000 to 3,000 euros for a multi-housing building. The owners will also have to pay a fee to the Ministry of Register and Control." And so on. Individuals from the profession are also mentioned. I really want to know, Ministry representatives, whether it is true that property owners should pay between 200 and 500 euros for their energy card. I think that this is what this government is pursuing, although some coalition Members have said that the real estate tax that you will accept today is the last tax or final blow for our citizens and citizens. Regarding the energy efficiency of buildings, I am interested in another area, which is "almost no energy building", article 328 states: "All new buildings must be almost nothing energy." It's nice. But I am interested because it continues: "Public sector organisations will only be able to buy energy-efficient buildings, products and services. Each year they will have to renovate 3% of their buildings and thus make sure that energy consumption is significantly reduced." Everything's great and all right. In 2012 and early 2013, we had a good example of how we can agree on the renovation of public buildings. Minister Černač or previous Minister Cernač made two calls, and fortunately another went through, although the current Minister had quite a few reservations to fully implement it, which I have repeatedly warned him about. And I really want to know how the ministry imagines it will rebuild 3% of public buildings every year. I also want to know where the foundations are in the draft budgets that we are going to adopt today. It's not about 100,000 euros, but it's about a few million dollars if we're going to settle this, which is what you're referring to in terms of articles, and that's what the European directives are also setting for us. Perhaps just a phrase that I had forgotten before — about the energy card. Since all indications that the drafter of this law or the drafter of this law is about the same person, who also prepared the regulation of the area of chimneys, I, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry, am very afraid of the area of chimneys. As you know, from 2004 until 2013, almost until 2014, 10 years ago, we have not yet gotten rid of this succeeding project. And I'm really afraid that the energy cards, or whatever these articles touch, will be another bomb for our citizens that we can't get rid of. Not only the areas of chimneys, but also the areas of car stickers, which were one of the stupid decisions of an apparently defined political lobby, supported by certain officials who brought Slovenian citizens and citizens nothing but looting their wallets. So, I'm interested in the energy card and the public renovation of buildings. Besides, there's two other things. The energy concept of Slovenia, which you are preparing, says that in addition to the energy concept in the future you will also prepare a state energy development plan. I was expecting because we are talking about an energy law, a slightly more concrete issue, and I am really wondering whether it is the right time to adopt an energy law, given that you have placed it in an emergency session where we are dealing with property taxes, budgets. I have a feeling that despite the fact that I think 560 articles in the law are hiding a huge loop that will bring nothing good to this area. If I came out of the closet, I'd probably say it's the right time, because money in the field of energy is going to run out of our own investment. This is the right time for them, and for all the other energy actors, it is a bad time for energy law. Even more so, when you talk about preparing an energy concept and a state energy development plan, it is clear that neither the lawmakers nor this government has any idea what to do with energy. To support this, we will probably also find evidence in the Slovenian State Holding Act, where the state does not know what and how to do with energy companies. Moreover, the law is designed to prepare action plans, operational programmes, and we all know what this is like. When officials in ministries, wherever there is no mistake, get to do different strategies, resolutions, action plans, operational programmes, we first ask ourselves when it will be what it will be and how it will be. There is nothing concrete about this law in this area, just prolonging the energy concept of Slovenia, which will be, when it will be, and what it will be. Here I would like to draw attention to another strange issue, which is the local energy concept – I think it says in Article 23 – where each municipality has to prepare a local energy concept, i.e. the recosting of municipalities. And I also really want to know why the Ministry's consent has to be. I think this will be a problem, even for those municipalities that will be interested in adopting the local energy concept. I come from the congregation where we've already arranged this. If we remember spatial legislation, where everything has to go along with the Ministry's agreement, and when laws are being drafted, it has been said that within one, two years everything will be settled, and half of the spatial plans are not regulated, I am very afraid that local energy concepts, and also where municipalities will be ready to be concrete, efficient and energy-efficient, problems will arise when the Ministry's consensus is sought, because there will probably be 1001 reasons why the local energy concept is not good or the ministries will have some ideas on how to regulate local energy concepts. To conclude, there is also the area of renewable energy use. I must admit that I have read with interest the provisions of the Eco-Fund Articles. I hope that the ministry will not change much the concept of the operation of this fund, that this fund will still be the fund which, in addition to certain benefits for public buildings, will also be in favour of young people, young families, young people in rural areas. I must admit that my friends who are thinking about building their own house, who even has this hope, are always talking about what if the Eco Fund is no longer willing to co-finance the energy efficiency of building buildings. Here I call on you not to change this concept. Regarding the use of renewable resources, and I will conclude with this, TES 6 is not a renewable energy source for me. The Ministry, I expect you to give more talks to the second block of nuclear power plants, not only the completion of the lower Sava, where I come from, including hydro power plants in Central Sava, where, unfortunately, the Minister has already demonstrated with the expansion of Nature 2000 that he will make himself one large bar, and thus also to Zasavija and the energy efficiency of our country. I agree, solar and wind power plants – yes, but this is not a priority or the only source to build on. I expect that various non-governmental organisations in the field of renewable energy will continue to make a very active effort to pass through this law. I expect the Ministry to follow this input-output too, because what helps us I don't know how many solar and wind power plants, if then through subsidies citizens will have to pay it all by paying higher energy prices. I want clear answers on what is happening with almost nothing energy buildings, what is happening with energy cards, where and how to rebuild public buildings, how you imagine the energy concept of Slovenia and how you will actively implement local energy concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u5	Thank you, too. I give my word to the Secretary of State. Bojan Kumru.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For a short time and I really would not like to repeat myself from yesterday's presentation and then from twenty-minute replies. Natura does not actually fall under our department, under our ministry, and this is part of another ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. There, as a country of Slovenia, we have committed ourselves to having above average targets, and we have already protected over 38% of the land and this is an additional challenge. I will not say that this is a problem, an additional challenge in putting clean and environmentally friendly facilities or energy infrastructure into space. There is a need to seek compromises between preserving nature on one side and placing clean and environmentally friendly energy facilities on the other hand that will produce environmentally friendly energy for a long time. What is particularly important to us at the Directorate or at the Ministry of Energy to make this energy more competitive. In the circumstances in which we are, we cannot afford to invest in resources that would in the long run represent additional burdens for the final consumer and for the economy. All efforts are made, and exactly in this law there is a number of things written in it, which is exactly what supports it to be burdened. Yesterday, the talk on transparency, non-discrimination and the fact that all conditions for all energy market stakeholders are the same. In the past, the energy law that came out in 1999 and was amended five times by novels shows exactly what the law was like. It needs to be changed, because at the end of the time that Slovenia adopted this law, it was not even a member of the European Union, but now we have a number of directives and regulations that we need to transpose into the national legal order. The perception that we are at a bad time, that time is not right, then the expert team wonders when the time is right – when the penalties will come from the European Union for the time-consuming implementation of directives and three years of pre-commissioned workers who have not done their work, as they should have in order to be able to devote themselves to marriage in a timely manner. Around LEK, the Local Energy Concept, or LEP, the Annual Energy Review, is in fact already in the current legislation. This was already in the proposals of the law two or three years ago and the so-called EZ-F, nothing changes here. The current EZ-E already mentions the LEK, and here the additional costs are not foreseen, we are increasingly burdening the procedures and we are accelerating that the customer/consumer procedure will be more user-friendly again. As far as the final prices are concerned, I did my homework at night. As a coalition, we committed ourselves to lowering electricity prices in the first quarter. Prior to the launch of this coalition, the average price for the largest industrial customers was 91.04 euros per megawatt hour; in the third quarter of 84.96 and is still lower. In spring, the predecessors increased their contribution to renewable energy by more than 300%. This has led to an uncontrolled increase in the costs of industry in mid-year, and a number of companies have thus been able to close their business. We responded immediately and unloaded more than 47% of our customers. This is not yet known in this statistic and will give an answer in the last quarter. The coming auctions are also the end of the year and it is necessary to know how the market works. We cannot swing with a magic wand and immediately lower prices by 10% if possible in the near or medium term. Here we are at the target of more than 7% and go up to 8%, and for now it shows that the target is achievable. So much for these numbers, we're more exact. Let me answer another question about Eles and Borzen. The European Union Directive already prescribes such an arrangement. This will be a matter of the SDH Act, which will come before you soon and you will be able to submit your suggestions and additions; this has also been regulated in the previous draft. We don't make any changes here. We don't make any changes here. As far as the Energy Concept of Slovenia is concerned, I mentioned yesterday that it would certainly be better to start with the concept and then the strategy and then the state development plan. And I wonder personally how this isn't done. But in such a short time, believe me, it is difficult to prepare a strategy, a concept and a law that threatens to punish him. If we don't have a concept, there's no punishment, and there'll be millions of fines if we don't go to the law, and it's a priority that we're going to do first. The energy concept – we certainly do not run away from it and the team at the Ministry will surely be happy to take it. And we're not naive that this is gonna be easy work. It'll be hard work, a huge challenge. There are a lot of stakeholders in energy, but, like the red thread of the energy law ahead of you, we will be pursuing sustainable attitudes, competitiveness, burdening the final consumer, burdening the economy or redistributing energy, because this has been completely neglected in the past. As regards renewable energy sources – here were the questions and roles of the Eco Fund. This is more of an area of the climate fund that receives its role, and just so that we do not burden the final consumer, because we want to relieve it, we will draw from the climate fund as a source for charging the so-called so-called ‘PEF’ scheme. As many resources as will be available, the new scheme will also provide the means to invest in energy infrastructure, which will meet the long-term objectives set by the state of Slovenia in the past. Beyond this objective, we cannot go and the law gives the right legal basis, but we cannot, of course, push into law a variety of strategies, regulations and concepts to achieve this. It's a matter of submarital acts, as I mentioned yesterday. As far as energy cards are concerned, this is already in the current law. I really don't understand what we're changing here. All we change is to introduce and tighten control over the quality of production. The costs you mentioned were not costs, but investments. We're here to protect the real estate buyer again so he'll actually be confronted with what he's buying. Because those who do not sell are not obliged to make an energy check or an energy card. Good experience from abroad shows that this is a very good investment because the cost of EUR 300 for the implementation of the first measure, which is the result of an energy card, is to be reimbursed in the long run. And here we are reintroducing good practices from abroad, and in the end we must follow the European Directive, where more than 70% of energy is adopted for the common internal market, otherwise we are at risk of inadequate implementation. Almost no energy building – this is a commitment to the directive. And the funding to achieve this, I stress here again, in the greatest faith in cohesion, in the next financial perspective 2014-2020, which is now being prepared. We are doing everything we can to ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, this cohesion is exhausted and supports this objective. The State of Slovenia has three objectives, of which 2 are to fall into energy by 2020, namely renewable energy sources and energy use. The third objective is the issue of ecology, according to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. Only these three objectives have been pursued by the State of Slovenia since 2020 and this law supports these objectives. Thus, we must support the decisions made by the State in the past, and we are doing so. As far as the public agency is concerned, I do not repeat myself, the public agency is still public, but not in accordance with the Law on Public Agencies, because this law is aimed at more agencies that are not regulatory. In the meantime, the situation has changed over 13 years, and European directives, which sometimes regulate the autonomy or functioning of regulators in the field of energy, covered three or four articles, and today there are several sides to these rules. We could fall under the Law on Public Agencies, but it would be inappropriate for more exceptions to be excluded, and the law would become again imprecise, unstructured, as we have already heard. The law cannot regulate the details of energy cards, these are the matter of sub-laws, regulations. You're already saying that we've made an extensive marriage. Of course, the details don't belong and they're not marital matter. And the energy component – a very simple truth – began to live, the first cards were issued in August and we have positive feedback. It is not appropriate that this practice, which it has successfully started, should now be brought to light in order to change it. So much so far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor and Mr Mirko Brulc is preparing himself. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to all present. Yesterday we heard a lot of debate on the subject that this law is extensive and imprecise. I must agree with my predecessors, they came from both sides, both from the coalition and the opposition. I expected the marriage to be divided into at least three sets. If I listen to the Secretary of State, when he talks most of the time only about electricity and energy in terms of electricity, it gives me more insight into the right direction. The only source that we have in Slovenia as a whole, such as production, transmission and distribution, is electricity. All other sources are on the market and we buy them and it would make sense that this is divided into different sources. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor and he is preparing himself for the Mag. Jana Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u10	Thank you very much, very nice greetings to all present. I express a different opinion that the Secretary of State is extremely professional and gives really exact answers to the questions raised. Maybe someone doesn't like it, but we finally have an expert we can obviously rely on. I myself will not deal with the fact that this law is extremely extensive, 500 and several articles, I am more concerned that the Law-Legal Service on 38 pages has made comments and that this will have to be regulated in law. This law is probably also the basis for Slovenia to move over the years, not very quickly, to a period when renewable energy resources can be used to manage and solve problems that are global, not just Slovenia. We also know what has just been said by the Secretary of State that the national energy programme, which is not here, does not replace this law and cannot replace it and opens up the possibility that this energy programme will have to be reached as soon as possible. I'm counting on tomorrow's public debate. I'm sure there'll be experts there who can read this law, not just look for some insinuations, some doubts, fears, calculations to whom it's written on the skin. We know that there are energy lobbyes in this country, like in all other spheres, in health care, etc., and that this law must be written in such a way that it destroys those who want to take these paths in a negative direction. It is true, as the predecessor said, that much deals with electricity and production, and we talk more about it, and I will talk about it myself, because in the environment from which I come, we have Soške power plants, which have 5 large hydro power plants, 21 small, the only flow in Slovenia. We are now concerned about this reorganisation of the operation of the Sokska power plant, the merger in some holding company and the management of these energy facilities from Ljubljana. That's out of the question. The excuse is saving, and so on, it's not serious stuff. I have data that the Sokska Power Plants have in the last period of the 233 employees come to a little over 100 to do business with a positive balance sheet, etc. And the excuse that this is about saving is not true. The excuse is that it is about centralisation and taking jobs, which is what we face everywhere. It's not your problem, it's your mail, etc. Next. Elektro Primorska, which is responsible for the distribution of electricity, also the transfer to the Theatre. Look, people, darling, today, yesterday, before yesterday – the storm. From Baska Grape all the way to Crassus, problems need to be solved. One can’t organize work from one third of the world, lift all operators to their feet, get them out in the middle of the night, in the middle of the stomach, in the cold, storms on the ground, and deal well and effectively with the problems of these maintenances. Therefore, in Goriška we oppose such centralisations because they will not be effective, this is a problem. And this law must also regulate something in this area in the sense that they will be users, which is all of us, receiving as much electricity as possible. I think the Secretary of State has already mentioned the case yesterday when New York's Elektro Primorska rescued a eclipse in neighbouring Italy years ago in the northern part of neighbouring Italy. It is said that we are well organized and not to ruin this for us. About the energy card. In many ways I agree with my colleagues on that side of the border – halls, I apologize, there is no limit, perhaps there is no need to be. I live by the border, so I'm getting away with it. So, the energy card is a problem and you need to be extremely smart, careful. We have, as has already been mentioned, exceptional experience with Nature, not just in the water field and elsewhere, with HACCP, we are more legitimate than a legitimate Europe. I don't know, I'm not an expert, I'm asking if this energy card can already be part of the building permit, because if you're adapting the building, changing the windows, regulating the roof cover, you need a building permit or a notification of parts or whatever. All these things can be done in this document. Now, I don't know what kind of facilities, if I go back to those barns in the village, I'm going too far, but if they're going to require an energy card for all these buildings in case of sale, then we're not going anywhere. So, it just has to be reasonable, otherwise we can have problems. Let's not be worse than some others, because big countries in the European Union can adapt and write on their skin and satisfy European rules. This law goes by the right procedure, I repeat, is demanding, the profession has to answer. And if the profession comes forward, don't say that the lobbies are, that they have some bad plans, and then we'll be back in the second part to deal with it. However, I would like to point out that the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is indeed to be examined thoroughly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u11	Thank you, too. Here you go, Mr. Big Guy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Have a nice hello to you all. In view of the importance of the field of energy and in view of the previous discussions of some of our colleagues, I would like to reiterate some key points, the circumstances of creation and the content of the law. In addition to the European directives and measures for the enforcement of certain provisions of the European Union, the Energy Act takes into account the findings of the Court of Auditors and the decision of the Constitutional Court. The procedure for the examination and adoption of the law is also limited in time due to the delays in the transposition of the Directives in the European Court of Justice. Because of the large scope of the areas covered, the law is extensive and the text is difficult, which is logical. However, there are several changes to energy policy. The national energy programme will replace the Energy concept of Slovenia, which will be long-term and will only provide strategic direction in the field of energy. The provisions of local strategies will ensure that energy targets are achieved and are in line with the national energy development plan. However, local energy concepts will be the basic acts that local communities will have to bring into line with spatial plans. The aim of changing energy policy through this law is to direct potential investors to long-term investments in energy, to efficient use of energy and to promote the use of renewable energy sources. However, the production of energy through local dispersion also allows the creation of new jobs. The law establishes an energy management system in the public sector, sets energy efficiency targets and foresees measures to achieve these objectives while at the same time establishing a way of verifying these objectives. This also allows for the requirements of energy cards. The public sector will thus be able to play a leading role in the field of efficient energy use, ensuring that the buildings they need are properly managed and maintained. Investments in the energy rehabilitation of buildings, however, can be one of the key measures to come out of the economic crisis. Energy services and the use of products mainly domestic production can generate high added value per unit of investment while reducing budget spending by lower energy consumption costs. In the field of remote heating, the law provides for two forms of distribution of heat, cooling and other energy gases, market distribution and selective public service. In the case of market distribution, the distributor's business is completely marketable, while in the form of an economic public service, the law also follows the public interest of the local community and is regulated on the one hand by regulated pricing in the distribution of heat for heating. At the same time, it is possible to determine the mandatory connection and heating from the system. The local community will provide synergies with the choice of form of economic public service, especially in the area of optimal energy supply, as a larger area from the remote heating system can be provided in this form. The decision on the form of the distribution will be made in the local community domain. However, the economic public service is only required if more than 100 households are provided, and consequently price regulation in this area. This law also transposes the regulation of the prices of heat suppliers supplying over 30% of the annual distribution of heat per network. The tasks and responsibilities of the regulation shall be entrusted to the Energy Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which already has experience in this field or in the use of pipeline networks. The law also regulates the control of support schemes, which is given the powers of the Government to adopt support schemes plans and thus foresees an increase in investments in renewable energy and cogeneration plants, taking into account the achievement of intermediate targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency. The Energy Agency will be obliged to take into account the conditions set out in the action plans to be adopted by the Government in the annual implementation of public calls for entry into co-projects into renewable energy sources and co-production of heat into support schemes, thereby preventing uncontrolled investment policy without taking into account the availability of resources. The binding target of 25% of renewable energy sources in 2020 provides for a less energy-consuming law. However, saved energy is cheaper than produced. For energy-sales companies, the existing mandatory energy savings schemes for businesses are changing. It is envisaged that energy suppliers will have to achieve a certain share of energy savings at their expense. The target of 20 per cent of energy efficiency gains will be achieved through a gradual increase in energy suppliers' obligations and approximately half of the savings are foreseen through incentives from the EcoFund. The law commits large companies to a mandatory energy review every four years. Energy costs account for up to 25 % of all costs in companies, and this measure rightly follows the objective of improving the competitiveness of companies. The cost of the review itself shall be reimbursed in very short periods of time when the measures are implemented. The law will also have an important impact on consumer protection. A deadline is set for the procedures for the implementation of the supplier's exchanges. A common contact point is envisaged to ensure that consumers have access to important information. Suppliers are committed to enabling an effective way of dealing with consumer complaints, defining vulnerable customers and enabling them to supply energy urgently. Since the content of the law has been subject to a lot of comments from the professional public concerned, I believe that the proposed content of the law is a product that allows further consideration in the proposed content and form. As far as the policy commitment is concerned, our policy towards cheaper energy would read a quote from the press release of 26 July entitled Towards cheaper electricity. I quote: "At its 18th regular session, the Government of Alenka Bratušek concluded in its review of the Regulation on how to determine and calculate the contribution to provide support for the production of electricity in high-efficiency cogeneration and renewable energy sources that it is necessary to amend the provisions of the Regulation on how to determine the weightings for individual recipient groups. This led to the first step towards the fulfilment of the said commitment under the Coalition Treaty. On this basis, there will be a set of weightings for the receiving groups to be accepted by the Government and taken into account by the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Energy in the preparation of a new act establishing a contribution to support electricity production in cogeneration with high efficiency and renewable energy sources." In Positive Slovenia, the government is expected to be affected by changes in weightings by energy-intensive companies, where energy costs are a large part of the operating costs. We also expect that these effects of reducing electricity prices for businesses will be higher than forecast. We have heard the result recently from the Secretary of State. As regards the concerns of some Members who dealt with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly last night, instead of discussing the proposed amendment to the Energy Law or Energy Law 1, I can say that we are some Members of this proposal for a law or a law. We have read all the variants of the proposal several times, and we have even been involved in the design of or. harmonising certain proposals in the legislative proposal. The proposal on the table today is well known, and I say that the law as such is good for consumers as well. In any event, I support the proposed Energy Act 1 and call on all of you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the Secretary of State and colleagues, I welcome you all very much. My debate may be somewhat different, I will not go into the analysis of the individual articles of this law, but I have a lot to look forward to from tomorrow's presentation, especially from the professional circles. I will continue exactly how I understand the mission of this law. I use the word mission on purpose because it is an extremely important law for each citizen, for economic operators. I am focusing on two chapters of this mission of the Energy Law. First time. Effective use of energy. I argue that the price of energy will not be so important, but more efficient energy use will be important in economic operators. And I'm sure this thought leap is still waiting for us. And others are renewable energy sources. All these areas could be discussed for a long time. I will focus on renewable energy and serve with data – I have heard our European Commissioner, Mr Potočnik, operating on this data several times – and this is the fact that mankind consumes five times a dozen joules of energy on an annual basis. At an annual level of five times ten to twenty joules of energy. The sun sets on the planet Earth 20 times as much energy a day. Thus, mankind consumes five times ten to twenty, and the sun spends one hundred times ten a day on twenty joules of energy. From here on, there is an implementation where to turn with regard to renewable energy sources. We will probably not discuss how long the sun will last, but these are the data that should be used by legislation, politics, energy, investors, the economy. These are facts, these are exact data, if you don't believe me – believe Mr. Potočnik, whom I have mentioned. You'll say we only have the sun in the afternoon, but what about at night? And here I go on with the question. Dear representatives of the Government, I have not noticed anywhere that there are any studies in Slovenia, much less planning of the so-called heliostatic power plants. This is about harnessing the heat of the sun. I'll give you an example that you can find in Spain, in Andalusia, at 185 hectares of degraded surfaces, they put some over 2,000 600 heliostats. These are mirrors that are oriented towards the tower and at the top of the tower there is a container with a liquid that warms up to 560 degrees Celsius. And this power plant can also work at night when there is no sun, if there is a great cloud; it works for at least 15 hours, so large is the heat supply. I can also say that such a power plant produces 110 gigawatt hours of energy per year, which is according to the data I read on the web portals, electricity for about 20,000 households. That's an interesting seduction. Of course, you will say that Spain lies in a different geographical width than Slovenia, but we also read about Slovenia and see that it is worth using solar energy. I therefore presented this model of the use of electricity via heliostatic power plants, i.e. the use of solar energy in heliostatic power plants. I wonder, what is Slovenia's affinity for such solutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u16	Thank you very much. It's a shame, Secretary of State, that you didn't get a word last night because you could solve a lot of things and say what you said today. I'm sorry Mr. Tank isn't here today, because I could listen to the answers that were so heavy for me, that they could understand what you want with them. But that's probably how it is here. We have a lot of hard work ahead of us at this time, and it's probably a little complicated. In fact, they are based and we need to build on these foundations this law so that it can be understood or operational; and I am sure that we can do so. The general discussion is intended to ask ourselves questions, to exchange experiences and to get answers in this general discussion to clarify our concepts. I'm happy, although there are no answers to all my questions. With regard to the energy card, I am convinced that the energy card was adopted at the 21st regular meeting of the National Assembly in October 2006 on the basis of the directive and that we have introduced the energy card at that time. This is an essential issue with regard to the energy card, where we should understand that it was adopted under the European Directive. The second question is whether we can modify this in some way now so that the costs are not too high. We need to talk about this, but this is not an essential issue of the Energy Law. Nor could I accept the claim that the government has no idea what is going on in the field of energy. I claim that all governments have so far done little damage in the field of energy and have allowed energy to work. Therefore, we have quality, cost-effective care such as it is. This has been done by all governments and so on. With regard to the stranded investment in TES, I would say that this is just a floscule that we like to use very much here. And if anyone says I'm a member of a lobby, I've made this public myself, and it's known to me that I'm a member of a jester's lobby in which there's 45 grand, legitimate, clear and public. The question, however, is, from which lobbies are those who are discussing, whether by conduct or by ignorance, individual investments and who are the lobbyists and who have spoken to them. I've reported all the lobbyist contacts, and I say that out loud, and I'm proud to be a member of this lobby. It's about time we talked about this now, because that's what we've decided to do. And if we have decided to reduce the damage, then it is only right that we continue to do so. It seems important to me what was said in the debate yesterday that we are talking about security in production and everything else that is going on in the field of energy. And that we are also talking about self-sustainment to pay attention to this when we talk about self-sustainment in the energy sector as a whole or in its individual work. When considering and adopting this law, we should make clear what is the issue of the European directives that we are transposing into our legal order and what is the matter with what we are regulating. Then perhaps some discussions would not be so busy or would be slightly different. Yesterday, a question was raised regarding the project on the lower Savi. If I belong in an energy lobby, whatever it is called, then I can say that projects at the bottom of the Sava are in this stage because they have exceeded the initial sum by more than 80, 70%. That they spent a lot of money on infrastructure in addition to investment in production facilities. I do not oppose this, but it is bad that we have spent this money on energy facilities. We should do this the other way. Water funds and everything else used here should not be used for this. The Water Fund should be dedicated to what the Water Fund is dedicated to. And that's the whole point when we're talking about the bottom Savi. I think that it is also important to make very clear about the energy concept and the individual parts of production. Yesterday it was very well said that we have one third of the production from renewable sources, one third from the nuclear power plant and one third from the heat. This is the ratio in which TEŠ is 6 pillars that we have normal electricity supply in Slovenia. And that's why the energy concept is actually based on these three: renewable sources, nukes and fossil fuels. There's something else about the manufacturer's relationship, which I also talked about yesterday. All electricity producers must be in the same relationship with local communities. It is not acceptable for individual local communities to have rents, compensations and to receive money for electricity production or space use. It is unacceptable that some people are receiving this, but it is not acceptable that we have not agreed on this. It would therefore be right to agree very clearly what is involved in the production of electricity and what is also happening in the environment due to the production of electricity or energy. And what is happening in the environment, in Zasavje, in Posavje, or in the Valley of Shaleska, is the damage that is coming. We need to talk about these damage, or environmental damage, and otherwise. And from here, our concern about what will happen to HSE; from here on, our concern about the situation of HSE compared to that of GE; and from here, our concern that they will not take away everything we have on the local level, and that is what Mirko Brulc has talked about. And there's something else about OVE. The efficient use of energy is extremely important, efficient use of energy is also linked to energy cards, so it is right that we are very smart to lead a policy on renewable sources – I mean photovoltaics, solar power plants. There are such large subsidies and the government needs to be supported here. Subsidies to the extent that we can cover, which are prudent, without cutting a branch on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u18	Thank you very much, distinguished President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Nicely greeted! The EZ-1 Energy Law provides benefits to consumers who are final customers of electricity and natural gas. In his discussion, he stressed, among other things, how important the change in this law will be for the economy. Large companies will have to carry out an energy review every four years, all in the direction of positive financial effects for the economy and towards positive environmental impacts, towards environmental protection. EZ-1 brings very high standards for consumer protection. One of the most visible such provisions is that the operator must make every effort to replace the electricity or natural gas supplier within 21 days of the submission of the consumer's full replacement request. EC-1 requires suppliers to provide consumers with up-to-date information on their consumption so that they can manage their consumption and thus impact energy costs. As a novelty, the law also provides for the establishment of a common contact point. A very important novelty is the provision that the consumer may withdraw from the contract for the supply of electricity or natural gas without payment of the contract penalty, i.e. compensation, compensation or any other payment made on the basis of the contract before a certain period of time, provided that the cancellation takes effect at least one year after the conclusion of the contract. Today, a large number of domestic customers are bound by supply contracts that provide for the payment of high contractual penalties in the event of a resignation, and there are many household issues in this regard. By allowing a derogation from the supply contract after one year from the conclusion without payment of the contract penalty, disproportionately burdensome binding of household customers shall be prevented. What does that mean? This means that consumers will make it easier to replace a more favourable supplier and thus save. The new EZ-1 Energy Law also allows the supplier to charge flat operating costs. They are identified differently by suppliers: as manipulative costs, as a monthly allowance or the cost of consumer support services, only in priced action or package offers and not with a regular price, as was often the case. Such costs shall be unduly charged to customers and shall not be directly linked to the basic service. Prices for clearly agreed services must be clearly set on the market. And that's what consumers, households, and other customers expect from us. In the event of flat-rate costs for the supplier's business, however, this is not the case, as the supply is therefore less transparent and ambiguous. This measure is also aimed at reducing the costs of domestic customers and increasing transparency. The law also provides for the same protection for small business customers of electricity and natural gas in certain parts as for consumers. This will also allow small business customers free of charge to withdraw from the contract within one year of conclusion. The Energy Agency will also run a price comparison for them. The pricelists will have to be made public. It shall be prohibited to charge the costs of the supplier's regular priced business. They shall be given the opportunity to withdraw without notice. We could still list it. Article 46 speaks in connection with electricity. Article 170 in connection with natural gas. Consumer protection, which is basically intended for household customers, extends to small business customers because we want the market to start working on the small business customers segment to lower prices. Customers in this segment are buying electricity in larger quantities than domestic customers and prices are still higher. This anomaly, this imbalance shows that something is wrong with business practice, which is harmful to the market and which is harmful to competitiveness. Therefore, we extend the protection of household customers by law of EZ-1 to small business customers in order to pay less for electricity and natural gas. In Positive Slovenia, we expect, on the basis of today's, today's and tomorrow's public presentations on the second reading of the Energy Law, some additions, as well as changes. In the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, today we will support the EZ-1 Energy Law proposal at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u19	We've reached the end of the applications for discussion. I give the word "magic." Bojan Kumru, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the end, we will certainly take on and encourage all the new technologies, not only the previously mentioned heliostatic solar power plants, including Mirror photovoltaics power plants and so on. Here we are changing and giving the legal basis of the EZ-1 that the mechanism or structure of the scheme will be different and that the power plants that are now uncontrolled will enter the scheme. And any power plant, even inefficient, would get support, one more, one less, all over. That is why we have fallen into heavy burdens for consumers and also for the Slovenian economy. To get rid of bad practices and to prevent this from happening further, we have gone into good practice so that the power plants will compete with efficiency, cost-effectiveness and only the best will come into the scheme. This will relieve consumers, especially the economy. At the same time, we will adopt into the support scheme and implement into the energy infrastructure, into the environment only those power plants that give the most megawatt hours at the lowest cost. And this is the main purpose and we would like to transfer competitiveness not only in the field of sales but also in the field of investment. And here this mechanism will come to life after the adoption of this law through an independent regulatory agency. We are confident that this will make things much better and prevent us from witnessing uncontrolled growth and the collapse of all power plants in the scheme over the past period. It should be mentioned that we will encourage all resources. We know that we are lagging behind in promoting water resources, that we have exceeded plans at solar power plants, that solar power plants have been the most expensive source in the past, that prices are falling, and we will encourage that. As said and repeatedly mentioned, I would not like to repeat myself, we must never ignore the competitive aspect. We must always keep an eye on the scheme, so that we can only help competitive investments that will provide consumers and economies with the cheapest prices. In our explanations, we have tried to get as close as possible to every reader of this law in order to make it as clear as possible what is the issue of European directives and what is not a matter of European directives, what is the issue of decisions of the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, this can be seen from individual explanations. We have received advice, recommendations that explanations be broad, and again others say that we have been too broad, it is difficult to satisfy all opinions, but somewhere there is a need to find consensus. I believe that there is still some effort, and we will make this effort at the Ministry, so that the interpretations of articles and explanations will also change further in the direction of greater added value or quality. As for the other, with regard to the reorganization or investments mentioned above, this is not a matter of legal matter. I understand that it is touching in the indirect direction of the so-called investment of TES 6, the lower Sava, but this will be a more energy concept of Slovenia than we have named in the new law. We really hope and look forward to the challenge that will come before us, that Slovenia will once again really get a good energy concept, which will not be over 100 pages long, which will not have too many vectors and will be professionally accepted, especially in the professional public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? He does. I invite you to report for discussion. Eight panellists have been reported, each of whom will have four minutes at their disposal, and I would like to point out that there are no replicas in these discussions. The first one has the word, Mr Joseph Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Chairman. I did not participate in these discussions myself, but I listened attentively to all those who debated, and I must say that there was a debate on the ground. You have pointed out certain inadequacies that have reigned and reigned in the energy realm. It was therefore right that the government came with a certain solution, although I personally believe that the law is too extensive. I would expect and expect a revised national energy programme, and the law should explicitly answer certain questions and be an implementing act to the national programme. But it's better than now that certain things are open, which you've also given a visual warning about. I'll listen to tomorrow's public debate myself. Today, I would also like to point out in the light of this a warning from the Court of Auditors, which in 2008 warned that 30 million euros have been lost from the Nuclear Decommissioning Fund. That was in 2008. It is therefore necessary to see and know what has happened and what is happening if things are not transparent and if they do not have adequate control. In 2008, the Fund's non-intentional use of funds for the so-called replacement temporary storage of low and medium-sized radioactive waste amounting to 6 million has been amended by the Act of Accession, and this money went directly to the municipalities of Krško and Brežica. This is the money that is intended for energy and for everyone, but not just a certain congregation. When someone points to another area, specifically the Valley of the Shale, he shows because he knows what he is doing, what possibilities give him a certain lack of transparency when something is not so arranged as it should be. That's why it's right that this marriage has come. I expect and wish that the National Energy Programme will come as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u23	Thank you, too. The next word is Mr Branko Smodish.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All present, good afternoon! Energy and energy law raise a lot of dust both in public and in profession, and as I can see, there will be a lot more. I come from Pomurje, from Ljutomer, where we don't have companies dealing with energy and energy supply, so luckily we don't have any energy lobbying there. But we do have the Mura River where they talk about hydro power plants. I have to say, I'm on my own against the Muri hydro power plants. Since I am not an energy expert, I trust and expect from the profession that the law will be of good quality, that it will be in line with the directives of the European Union and that it will not be written where the lobbies will prevail. I hope there aren't any mistakes like those from the biogas plants, which is why we have a big problem in Pomura. Usual people expect that this law will provide safe and secure energy supplies for all, that they will be affordable energy prices for all and that it will not only maximize profits but will look at people. Finally, with regard to the energy card. I think it's just an extra cost. Therefore, perhaps a proposal or an initiative to make with 1. 1. 2014 or 2015 this must have had houses or new buildings, not back, because it will really just be an additional cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u26	Thank you, President, for your word. Perhaps there are only two answers for the introduction to some debaters. It was mentioned that the price of construction of the lower Sava increased by 70-80 %. In doing so, I must point out how much price has increased for TES – I think from 600 million euros to 1.5 billion. Here we are talking about a double of 70 to 80 percent rise in the basic price. At the same time, we draw attention to two important aspects. First of all, which one is a renewable energy source? Dear Mr Meh, I come from Sevnica and, unlike my colleague, Franco Bogovic, who comes from Krskov, the Sevničians have been fortunate enough to have saved us from the floods that we have suffered over the past few decades, the damage from this point of view has been prevented at least in Sevnica. So if you are blurring renewable and non-renewable resources and the price of the company, specifically for your area. With regard to Mr Kavticnik's landfill, I come from Sevnica, unfortunately we have no luck, despite the fact that the nuclear power plant is nearby. If anyone likes a nuclear power plant nearby, I believe that they will find at the Ministry some other piece of our Slovenia where the second block could be created. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, I don't think you've answered two questions yet, one regarding the renovation of public buildings or the possibility of anything. I know that the law on this matter is not very specific, but the law does say a few words about the renovation of public buildings. With regard to energy cards, I have read once again very carefully what this includes. And I must say that I did not get an answer to whether the actual prices for energy cards that a particular company is supposed to be preparing were between 200 and 500 euros for one apartment house. Since you said that the energy cards are already in place, I am interested in the price of the cards already in place. Or does it hold data, because it says here that the cost of producing an energy card must be paid by the owner, and the minister responsible for energy must prescribe the criteria for determining the price, and I am interested in how it is on this issue. I would also like a sentence more regarding almost no energy buildings, except that every 3 years you will draw up a guideline. Perhaps there is something else about energy cards; it writes: the tasks related to the operation of energy cards are managed by individuals who have a valid licence to carry out these tasks, hereinafter referred to as independent experts. I must say that I am very afraid of this concept of independent experts because of experience, given what is left to both sub-legislative acts and certain lobbies. I really want to know why, in Article 339 — An independent expert’s license, what a person has to do to qualify for this education — why there is no energy here. They must be experts in architecture, forestry, paper, plastic, glass and similar technologies. However, since we are talking about the production of energy cards, I believe that those who will meet the conditions for obtaining a licence will also have some knowledge from this area. In short, I want clear answers regarding the renovation of public buildings and the energy card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Daniel Krivec has the following word. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has procedurally. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u28	Mr President, I would suggest that you follow the order of the applicants, not that you have released the number three. Please check this out.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u29	Thanks for the heads-up. I guess I missed Mr. Ljub Žnidar, right? Can we have a debate? Mr Ljubo Žnidar, please, I will give you first the word as it is written in order, and then we will stick to this list. Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u30	Dear fellows, once again a good-bye. If the energy law were truly a great marriage, as I am hearing in this Chamber today, then the Legal and Legislative Service would not have over 50 pages of comments on this law; I believe it is demanding and extensive. This also means that it is necessary to prepare, complement and work in this direction in the Slovenian Democratic Party as well as in person. Yesterday was a debate on what is a priority – whether it is the adoption of an energy law or, firstly, strategic energy documents. All professions would be the only one that is correct in order to first adopt strategic documents and then pave the way for the adoption of an energy law. And the path can be different. This path has been chosen by the coalition to adopt the law first, but today it is necessary to take note that this law will need to be amended and corrected many times. I'd point out three things in this marriage, too. I can't understand that the so-called small business customer is being equated with the household customer. We know that energy supply in Europe and thus in Slovenia is not stable. It can also be uncertain in the future, swings will take place, or today we do not know exactly what it will be like. I believe that a small household customer will have to be protected in some way, but now we are comparing small household customers with a small business customer. I don't even know what a small business customer is. Those operating with 30 drill machines are small; those operating with 300 will be large — I do not know where the criterion is. I have a question about whether there is a case in Europe where business and household customers are equalising. This is an example of good practice in a neighbouring European country and I would like to ask for an answer here. Whether in Slovenia we are unique to the business and household space for energy or electricity. There has already been a talk on the contractual penalty for withdrawing from the contract. On the one hand, it is necessary to look at other laws, the Bond Code, since the party may always withdraw from the contract, even if it is concluded for an indefinite period of time, but must take into account pre-defined rules for the cancellation period. As a consequence, the supplier shall also ensure that any risks arising from unannounced deviations are included in the price of electricity and natural gas to all customers. In the event of a higher number of withdrawals from contracts, fixed costs shall be increased and charged to all customers. In short, this is an irregular and unbalanced transfer of costs to all customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Daniel Krivec has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As I said in the first debate, I expected that this law would nevertheless take into account several comments from the professional companies which sent comments and, in particular, to take into account several comments which were made in public debates already in 2011. If we make a comparison of that and the present law, we find that there are several articles of the difference. I am glad that there are no more articles on the Soča River and ad hoc solutions to the construction problem on the Soča River. I must say, there was a great resistance and a revolt at the time when this came into law and other things were not substantially changed. Most professions point out that this law is impenetrable, too extensive, as I had previously pointed out. All the discussions we have today, yesterday, as well as the debate held by the Secretary of State, are mostly about electricity. And it would be good if the law were divided into at least three sets and would therefore be more transparent, and it would also be easier to monitor the changes made by European legislation. The only energy we have in Slovenia, which is truly covered in the entire segment, is electricity. And it's mostly a speech, and it would be right if it was a special law. Gas and oil are on the market, it's a small part of the segment and a calm soul could be in his marriage. Renewable resources, cost-saving use and also heat supply are part of a combination, and if they were to pack up, which was also discussed at previous public hearings, we would now have a more solid law. And I believe that the Secretary of State is new, but the team at the Ministry is the same all the time, and from there, it is kept informed, and it also monitors all these initiatives. And I don't agree with the fact that you're saying that there wasn't enough time. It has been since 2009, when the directives came because all the people in the Ministry are the same. You better let your subordinates ask for health a little bit. Why isn't marriage better prepared than selling to us that there was no time? I absolutely disagree with that. You're talking about reliability, efficiency, carbon-freeness, security, competitiveness. I do not see anywhere in this law to favour those resources that Slovenia still has. We're talking about a water energy that hasn't been used. We know that photovoltaics have been potential because of certain lobbying and that is why we all have major financial difficulties now. And if we continue to support this, I don't think we're doing very well. You're talking about the fact that the marriage won't bring any new encouragement. Article 316 requires suppliers to take certain measures which will have to be passed on to the customer. With regard to renewable resources, I am very skeptical in this direction. I don't see anywhere the paradigm that you all repeat is to exploit our wooden biomass. You're always talking about a zero building or nothing about an energy building, which means just additional electricity consumption because it's a variety of recoverys, different systems that can't work without electricity. That is why I miss some direction in this law, which would still give direction and exploit the potentials Slovenia has in the long run. Don't talk to me about wind, don't talk to me about solar energy, because it's just a floscule. What we have is water energy and wood biomass, which you all emphasize. Everything else is a bluff for people and a bluff for those who listen to us. Renewable resources are just one alternative. It is important to make it clear to people that there will still be a need for fixed sources of energy, because when the sun does not shine when the wind does not blow, the European Directive also requires that we have resources in our system.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Franz Breznik has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u34	Mr. President, thank you very much. Just an opinion. When I examined this law, I could say that it is very extensive, very opaque, as some of you have said today, that a strategic document on Slovenian energy should be the first order, and then this law, which would come in the second stage. That's phase one. The next phase – I would like to look at the characteristics of Slovenia that we have. Krivec has said enough about the hydropower potential that Slovenia has, which we do not favour. It is also important to know that behind the hydropower system or potential is the complete Slovenian hydropower industry, engineering and everything else that this potential, if even better exploited, could also be potential for us to tap into our economic system. This is what is absolutely necessary. For those of you who spoke today about third parts, i.e. one third of the alternative resources, one third of the nuclear power plant and, in the second phase, the thermoelectric power plant as a balance, I would like to make some of the latest findings from Germany. Studies in colleges have just identified a major disaster with regard to the wider cracks in Alstom companies, which are taking place at various power plants installed by this company. Especially in the T24 miracle steel there are big cracks, big problems and there are a whole range of service requirements and they don't know how to solve these problems. For those of you laymen in this area, I would like to say that in these thermal power plants, as TES 6 was built, coal burning is under greater pressure and temperatures, with some new technology. And the T24 miracle steel has been under-examined, there are terrible phenomena, there are now some solutions in Germany that German thermoelectric power plants are no longer typical balanced power plants or some frequency converters in the system. Experts, meanwhile, decide that thermally stable energy production is precisely due to the absence of leaks in their system. The essence of our TES 6 system is that the system balances between the thermal power plant and all other alternative sources and hydro energy. Here again is my big question. Major problems will arise for TER 6 if it occurs in the system. That's the first question. Maybe even for you if you know these things to answer me. But in the second phase, I'd like to say a few more systems. In Germany, Austria, there are also so-called micro-organised or micro-energy generation on the smallest systems to reduce the price of networks. The price of the network is also one of the energy costs that we do not take into account. In Slovenia these problems may not be seen at this time, because industrial production has fallen heavily, the system is not as burdensome as it has been in previous times, but it will also be a major problem in the future, i.e. the network. Finally, I would say that Slovenia must pursue the objectives of the minimum price of quality energy production and achieve the smallest prices of hydropower. I believe that hydropower in Slovenia should be favoured because this is where a whole range of production factors, a whole range of technological factors, stand. We have very good, excellent experts in this area, and I believe that we can make better use of this system, including this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Happy Meh has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u36	Thank you very much. It's like he's a proponent of the government and the secretary of state. Yesterday, the Secretary of State told me that it would be right – we heard those who were here – to adopt the strategic documents first and that the law could have been adopted long ago and asked why this was not adopted. Everyone who wants to know what happened to the adoption of the Energy Law, I have written here – Ljubo Žnidar, and I will give it to you in person – namely, in 2012 the Government prepared the Energy Law and did not prepare a strategy. The government drafted the Energy Act in 2012 and did not decide on the strategy. This law has also been in procedure for a day. As he was with all the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service, with all the weaknesses. Please, we are not talking about governments that have screwed everything up, that we have come to this situation today, that we have no idea that we have no law and that we are accepting something that we must accept quickly. I'm gonna repeat what I said. Please, Mr. Fox, if you will listen. With regard to the lower Sava, it was right that all the other infrastructure had been built, because it prevented damage, and it was right that everything you were talking about had been done there. But it's not right that this worked with the investment, it's not right. We should use water resources, other resources so that the investment is pure on the one hand. On the other hand, everything else we do with energy facilities would be built from other sources, otherwise energy is too expensive, too much price is due to it. And it's not true that the price will be lower. The estimate is that the lower Sava will grow from 400 million to 900 million. This is an assessment of those involved, and this is actually catastrophic. It is not right that such incentives are, but it is right that this infrastructure has been built. When I talked about the relationship between producers, I think that all local communities and all electricity producers in this case – on Sava, on Drava, on Soča, NEK and TES – should be in the same position. Rather, the thermal facilities should be in the same position as the local communities, in order for all to participate equally in the remediation of the damage caused. That's why we're not in the same position here. Of course, the question is also the price of electricity in the GEN. Again, I ask, does this price cover all costs? Does this price cover the costs of decommissioning, storage? Does this price include compensation? How much do Croats pay? What's the price? How will we deal with them in terms of decomposition, as far as the landfill is concerned? These are the questions that show us. I'm sure we'll hear a lot of different opinions tomorrow that won't be possible to get into the marriage, because they'll be the opposite of each other, because they'll be fighting each other. And everyone will make a legitimate statement of their position, including their profession. But this profession in the law that has to fix everything, it's not going to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u37	Thank you, too. A replica at this stage of the debate is not possible. I give my word to Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u38	Your Honor, a nice greeting from me, too. One significant difference between the investments in the lower Savi and that investment in the TES is that those in the lower Savi – usually occur for a lower value than in the last investment programme. At TES, it's the other way around. Although I may agree that too much is involved in the investment being hanged as regards infrastructure. This is one of the major differences if we ignore the fact that the price produced in TES will be so high that no market will ever cover it, and the burden will continue for several decades to burden all other electricity consumers. Hydro is certainly the cheapest and purest energy on this side, as we have heard today, is underexploited. The Secretary of State answered questions. But he didn't answer. We did not get substantive answers to many questions, but it was no big deal. We will have this law in further debate and I think it is right that questions and dilemmas have been raised. It will be time for further procedures to respond to them. However, there are some things that have been answered in half or in part, which still need to be clarified. The new law, which would eliminate inconsistencies or regulate what the European Union requires of us, was at the table of this Assembly in the spring of this year. And you've closed the conscious procedure and decided on a new marriage. That's a fact. Since then, you've been taking on the burden of the timeline in the coalition and no one else. In her explanation, the Government wrote: The draft energy law, which is the subject of this material, has been under public consideration since 11. 6. 2012 to 30. 6. 2013 The duration of the public hearing is shorter since the Energy Act has already been publicised in 2011, from June to September. The content platform of this law is the real law of 2011 and this is undeniable and this is recognised by the Government. I said oz earlier. in the debate yesterday that the basic scheme of the law also follows the one in 2011, which can be that there is nothing wrong with it. We'll see what happens next. I am confident that this law will today be given a green light for further procedures so that it will need to be thoroughly amended. Photovoltaic support scheme. In the middle of 2011, the photovoltaic support scheme should be amended as what some of you discussed happened. About the same people who are now sitting around the secretary of state were sitting at the Ministry. And it would be good for them to tell you why it didn't happen then. It happened for the first time on 1 July 2012, and since then this process has been halted. He's finally stopped 1. 11. 2012. And we support the provision of funds from other sources, not just electricity stations, for the support scheme by amending the law. It is not true that the claim was made, we have increased the support scheme by 300%, which has been expressed in such a way that the rates have increased by 300%. By a few percent, the amount on the stakes rose because at the same time the government had reduced all that it could have reduced and what was in its domain. We now support the amendment of the law, which will allow this amount to be further reduced on the stand. No company went bankrupt for that. Those who have served enormously because of the excessive support of photovoltaics in recent years have problems today and are also forgiving. In the NEK Fund, said Mr Kavtičnik, 30 million euros have disappeared in 2008. Nothing's gone, Mr. Kavtičnik. The balance sheet stated that the value of this fund’s portfolio was lower due to the market situation because the stock values were lower. However, EUR 6 million has disappeared into one of Mr Petan's companies in 2009 or 2010.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u39	Thank you. At the end of the debate, I give the word mags. Bojan Kumru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will try to limit myself only to the substantive part of the law and leave behind all the indirect discussions that do not touch the legal matter. The price of an energy card cannot be determined by law. It's a market thing. To determine here what the price will be – this will be determined by the market. We are confident that more independent experts will compete, I am concerned that you are worried about independence, as you say, to put in, to be independent experts or how. Right here, we want independence to be fully and 100% guaranteed. The Minister shall set the criteria for certain prices. This, of course, must then be controlled. That's definitely it. Energy cards must have those buildings that will be broadcast and those that will be sold. So we're protecting the buyer so he knows what he's buying. The energy card will not be a cost, but will be an investment, as the implementation of the measures that will be reimbursed as a result of the analysis and the checks that are previously needed to obtain the energy card will result in multiple payments. That's what I think we all know. The area of Technology anyway includes all engineering, electrical and construction engineers, here independence is fully guaranteed unless you want these experts to be dependent because you mention it. Almost no energy building – in 2016 public, 2020 private. And the government will draw up an action plan that is in preparation, and all of these are the foundations of the European directives, and it is binding on us. 3%, which is the goal of rebuilding public buildings, is already being implemented. A number of calls have already been made on this and we will also pursue this objective at the next financial perspective 2014-2020. The Eco Facility will continue to perform its function and we will probably put more emphasis on this here, so that the concern here is completely exaggerated. The point has been made that most of my answers to electricity are, but if I want to be professional, I get most of the questions from this area. Unless you want me to respond to natural gas, heat, cold, UP, but then I'll get a clear indication that I don't stick to specifics. I'm following up on issues that only concern the content of the law. History of the law. We never claimed or denied that it would not be the basis of previous laws. We took everything well as the basis of 2011 and the EZ-1 that you removed from the predecessors, all good from the EZ-F, more little was good, but we picked up what was good. And the truth is that this marriage is almost the same as the EZ-1. Several directives were involved, some time, three years had passed, and all of this needs to be taken into account. After all, we have taken more than 40% of the professional comments into account, which has only improved the quality. Or if you want to ignore the comments made by the professional public. That is why public treatment to improve and all this has changed [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u41	Thank you, too. We're out of time to discuss. However, it will certainly be possible to talk a lot about this law in the context of a public debate. At this point, I am concluding the debate on this item on the agenda. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 47th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 12.05 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u42	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before proceeding to the voting procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17a, 17b, 17, 18, 1, 2 and 16 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Procedurally has the word mag. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u43	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I ask you, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia, to order 45 minutes of breaks before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u44	Thank you. We will take your proposal into account when we open the 3rd item, which is the first point in which we will vote. After all possible explanations of vote, I will order a recess, if I understand correctly, within 45 minutes for consultation in the parliamentary group. I continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on a Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations and Justice Authorities, as well as public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions for 2014. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I invite you to report on behalf of the Group of Members. Ms Sonja Ramšak will explain the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u45	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly, for your word. I will give my opinion on all the points relating to the adoption of the 2014 and 2015 resolutions, so that I will no longer report to the debate on behalf of the Group of Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will not oppose the decisions, their adoption, we will not support them. When we presented our position at the very points, it seems to us that in these difficult times, when we remind ourselves of how many unemployed people we have, how many social pressures there are, it is unacceptable that some authorities — including the Ombudsman — are planning to acquire overly expensive vehicles. This is also a point we are now pointing out, which is why we will not support the rulings.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u46	Thank you, too. I note that there are no other interested parties to explain the vote, so, in accordance with the proposal of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia that it needs a 45-minute recess for consultation in the Group of Members, I interrupt the point and we will continue the meeting at 12.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u47	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda. Since a break for consultation was proposed in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, I ask if you would like to present the result of the talks in the parliamentary group? Can we get back to work? Sir, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the functioning of the voting apparatus. Because we are moving to a vote on the 3rd item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Decree on a Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations and Justice Authorities, as well as public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions for 2014. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on a Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations and Justice Authorities and public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions for 2015. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the real estate management plan of the Slovenian National Assembly for 2014. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the real estate management plan of the Slovenian National Assembly for 2015. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the real estate management plan of the Ombudsman for 2014. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the real estate management plan of the Ombudsman for 2015. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the real estate management plan of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the real estate management plan of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the real estate management plan of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the State Audit Commission for 2014. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the State Real Estate Management Plan for the State Audit Commission for 2015. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is by re-declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. I think that interest has been expressed in explaining the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I invite you to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Ms Jasmina Opec has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have been warning about the inadmissibility of this novel for our parliamentary group all the time since we cannot agree to lower net wages, to abolish allowances for children and persons with disabilities. We have also been drawing attention to an unfair solution that concerns migrant workers, particularly those working in neighbouring Austria. While it is true that the constitutional provision is being implemented, it still seems to us that we should deal with this problem in a more just way. We, too, have proposed an amendment at the examination of the mother's working body, which we actually thought was a step closer to a just path. Now we are once again putting ourselves in a situation where we will hurt a certain part of our population and cause people to move out or apply to the Employment Service. I don't think that this is any goal that this is not the goal of our country, and that is why we will also oppose this novel in our re-decision in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u49	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he will explain the vote of the mags. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we oppose the amendment of the Income Act, which prevents the coordination of the income scale and also prevents the coordination of the benefits. In fact, this means less real income for all citizens and citizens. Different in view of the fact that we have progression in the income scale to the family or. Social status will not be so divided as we know that we have so-called dependent members. Thus, on average incomes, the four-member family will actually receive less money, amounting to €330. That's unacceptable. In this way, fiscal consolidation cannot take place. 30 million, as far as the financial impact of this tax is concerned, could be obtained with other measures, both in the field of government budget expenditure and in the field of public procurement. And if we think that there are about 4 billion public contracts per year, 1% of the savings in public procurement would be 40 million. This is more than the fiscal effect of amending the Income Act. This would ensure that all citizens and citizens receive real income. Such a decision is not acceptable for a long period of time, because if there is any time to re-coordinate with the cost of living, the basis will be smaller and all people will be affected in the long run. In the case of Slovenian workers working temporarily in Austria or Italy, it would also be necessary to find an appropriate solution, irrespective of the decision of the Constitutional Court. Other countries have this arranged. I don't know why there's a barrier to this thing not to be settled because it's in the areas where these workers come from, unemployment among the biggest. Unemployment is also among the largest due to the actions of the government of Alenka Bratušek. For this reason, we strongly oppose the amendment of the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u51	Thank you. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The new Slovenia, the Christian Democrats, strongly opposes the changes and additions to the Income Act. This is not a contribution to greater competitiveness, it is not a contribution to economic growth. This is the only contribution for the revenue side of the State budget. How the revenue side then divides is a big question. The solutions brought about by the amendments and additions to the Income Act further increase tax obligations, which I no longer count in the series of new and new tax burdens. In New Slovenia we always oppose the new and new tax burden of taxpayers. Increasing taxes is not a development. In terms of economic competitiveness, the decline in net wages will further reduce the purchasing power of the population, and this will eliminate the projected increase in fiscal revenues from the increased value tax resulting from this government's policy. We are further disappointed that the government has not made any more efforts to find a more favourable solution to the Constitutional Court's decision, which we respect, but the solution is certainly more. With the least effort, the government has simply eliminated the relief of daily migrants, many of whom are looking for work in Austria every day. These are the Pomurci, these are the Styers, I think Slovenian Styersko, these are the Korosci and many who live in border municipalities with Austria. These people will practically be deprived of about a quarter of their income during the night by adopting a new law on income. I know we all have to pay taxes, and we know that income is driven by the global principle of income, but for such solutions there are certainly different, better outcomes than the government proposes with this amendment to the law. The New Slovenia Group will vote against the amendment of the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u53	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded our explanation of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. You have shown an interest in explaining your voice in your own name, so I invite you to report. Before I give the floor, I would like to remind you that the explanation of vote is intended to tell you how you are going to vote and why you have decided to do so, but we must not, in any way at this point, polarize or even call on others to vote. Please follow this provision of the Rules of Procedure. The first will have the opportunity to explain the voice of Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was not necessary for us to always, when the Slovenian Democratic Party has a vote, call on us to keep order in Parliament. Please don't humiliate us like this. I'm going to start by saying I'm going to vote against this law. There's more than one reason. This law reduces net wages, makes it impossible to harmonise income scales. What is also bad and unacceptable in addition to all the unacceptable things, is that he doubles the taxation of those who work outside our borders. I come from Slovenian Gorica. Municipality Šentilj, Pesnica, Kungato, even Pomurje, Prekmurje, Prlekija, on the other hand the complete Koroška – practically 30% of all people work outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, but not because they wanted to. This is because in Slovenia or this company did not allow them to be employed with us. And so I find it extremely unfair, extremely unacceptable that they are now double-taxed. And that's what the current government and the current coalition did. I am sure that we must oppose such solutions because they are harmful to these people. These people make money across our borders, they bring all the money practically to the Republic of Slovenia and they spend it here. Besides, they're not our social cordon. It is amazing that we punish those seeking employment in such a way and with such solutions as are laid down in this Income Law. That's why I'm not going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Franz Breznik has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u56	I will continue to be unable to support these novels of the Income Act again because it destroys the Slovenian business environment, makes it even more uncompetitive; and I believe that the harmonisation of the income scale is also catastrophic. It's a mini tax, it's a cover tax. The debate was going in this direction, the government said on the one hand that it would not take anything away, and on the other hand it said it would save more than 30 million euros at the annual level. That's one mini tax. In the other direction, it destroys or doubles all those you spoke about today who have found work abroad. That's the kind of politics we know. You've created some of you for decades in this country. As a result of such economic policy, we have more than half a million citizens out of our country and what else cannot be expected of our people who have sought work abroad. They have the only solution to register permanently in neighbouring Austria, Italy, in other countries where they make it impossible to see this money. It is necessary to say how you will argue that only one of your ministers could raise the rear, get in the car, seduce Vienna and conclude an interstate agreement, or the Prime Minister of the Government, where he could find an agreement for these workers. The Constitutional Court did not say that this did not apply, but that a different solution should be sought. You don't even have the social sense to do it, not even so much energy. On the other hand, a number of ministers are travelling around the world, they are going on ministerial tourism, they are discussing topics that are not currently relevant to the Republic of Slovenia. This is what's scary, which means it's a social one; and you're not a social one, and you never say you're Social Democrats again, at least some of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u57	Mr Breznik, I asked in the introduction precisely for the reason that we would not raise controversy at the institute of explanations of vote, because that is not possible, not to debate in this way. I had already in mind that I would really evaluate you with greatness, but then you moved on to the polarization and abuse of the voice-explanation institute. I also assume that colleague Han may have requested procedurally precisely for this reason. Just one more warning to stay in explanation of vote, to tell you how you're going to vote and why. As others will, leave this decision to others and not to be politicized. We proceed with the explanation of vote. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u58	Respectable. I can't support it, and I won't support it. I will vote against the Income Act. The main solution, in addition to those mentioned several times in relation to migrant workers, daily migrants, is that the amendment of the law together with the law on the implementation of budgets will not harmonise the tax scale as well as tax reliefs for all taxpayers. This means that the tax reliefs of all citizens and citizens who are taxpayers will be lower in the next two years than they would have been in the absence of this novel. This means that all taxpayers will pay more taxes in the next two years than they would pay if the government did not take this proposal and the coalition would not accept it. This means that this law further irritates work and that it is an indirect tax on work, which has already been over-taxed in Slovenia in one way or another. And I cannot understand this approach of the current coalition to solve financial difficulties by hitting each one in a small way, this will be a number of things, rather than saving these savings on the elimination of certain injustices, privileges, as well as rationalising the functioning of the state and the parastatal sector. This is the wrong way. I do not support such a path, which has now been proposed, and I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u59	Thank you. The next word is Mrs Sonja Ramšak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. There's no way I can support the novelty of the Income Act. When Slovenia faces increasing social pressures today, which we have also heard from the current coalition many years ago, when the situation has not yet been the same as this year, it seems unacceptable to me that we will not coordinate the income scale and the cost of living. The fact that we are not aligning the growth of the income scale and the benefits with the growth of living costs means that we will put additional burden on families, in the same way as our colleague Shircelj said that the four-member family will have less €330 in its pocket. What does that mean? We all know. What can be bought for 330 euros. Nor will the income scale and relief for the disabled be coordinated. On the other hand, as we face increasing unemployment each day, we stop the relief of those who had to go with the belly for bread to neighbouring Austria, where they found work and were not at the burden of Slovenia and the social community. Today we are doing this wrong to these people, and I am sure that we should vote against this measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u61	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. As several previous colleagues have already said, there is no way in which I can support amendments to the Income Act. I can't support this because of the so-called double taxation. Unfortunately, a lot of my peers, as well as other people older, have to go abroad with their stomachs behind their bread. This is what we know mainly about Members coming from areas where unemployment is above average. And the double taxation measure will seriously affect and tax all those working in neighbouring Italy, Austria, etc. That means they'll all be on a quarter salary. In Austria, 14 thousand Slovenians were employed in August, and this figure is growing from day to day, according to data. And when this marriage was first confirmed in the National Assembly, people began to think a lot about how to avoid it. We will lose this generation and these people who work abroad will be lost forever. Instead of thanking those who went abroad with a belly for bread and come to spend money in Slovenia for admitting that they preferred to find a job than to exploit the social state at home, we will now tax them. This is immoral, unacceptable and unsocial. I'd be ashamed of myself if I supported something like this. Finally, I would urge the representatives of the Government to immediately enter into negotiations with the neighbouring state of Austria to achieve fair conditions through the Interstate Treaty so that those working in Austria can continue to have a certain degree of normal life.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Pukšič, an explanation of the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! By approving this law, those who vote in favour of amending the Income Act will bring some more than 30 million euros to the state budget. It's because you won't coordinate the scale and there won't be a coordination of the benefits. Obviously we can say that history repeats itself, about every 30, 40 years. After World War I and before World War II, in 33 C.E., many relatives, especially from Prekmur, went abroad with their belly behind their bread. Many have gone far to other continents, and the vast majority of these people have been lost forever, never returned, nor have their descendants. This was repeated in the 1970s, when many went to European countries, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, also to other continents. Today we are talking about about about about one quarter or 20% of all citizens and citizens, Slovenes and Slovenians who are displaced around the world. That's not good. Today someone sent me an e-mail asking me what he has to do to work in Austria, how to get past that tax. He asks me if it is true that he has to check out a permanent residence in Slovenia and move. Thousands of young people will do it. Remember – even those are lost, not only is the generation lost, that there is no work, we are now losing part of the generation driven by Slovenian tycoons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u65	Thank you, too. There are several of you interested in applying. There you go. There's a voice-explanatory application. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Personally, I'm not going to support this new law on income. There's more than one reason. The new Income Act is just a new hidden tax for the government of Alenka Bratušek and the coalitions of Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, DeSUS and the National Gazette. This amendment to the Income Act will burden the four-member family with an additional 330 euros tax. It is also problematic that the percentage of the burden increases with the number of families. On the other hand, a lot of people with minimum wages will be in this account at 20 euros. This is a one-sided intervention in the minimum wage, and this novelty will only bring about the reduction of family budgets, which means less consumption and a greater deepening of the economic crisis in Slovenia. This novel and the path of the government of Alenka Bratušek is not the right one. It additionally burdens the population of the Republic of Slovenia and additional burdens the economy in all respects.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u67	Thank you. The next word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. With income tax, the government of Alenka Bratušek is re-imposing citizens and citizens. This non-compliance, as my colleagues have already said, will mean over €330 for families with two children with an average salary. higher income. This is not a new tax, but the coalition will draw some 100 euros out of their pockets in a slightly different way. Even those with a minimum wage will be reduced in this way, or you will take some more income. For that billable salary that many of you talk about and you are full of words about minimum wage. At the same time, you expect people to spend more, to spend more, and through higher VAT on food, footwear, clothing — everything they need each day — to fill the budget in this way, through tax. By knowing that consumption has already fallen by 3% compared to June and that it is falling all the time. I don't know where you're going to fill up and how much time you're going to take for people to practically have nothing left. In addition, you punish those who, instead of hanging themselves on social security in this country, seek employment outside, go to work there, return home and spend here and fill the state budget through VAT. You also punish those who, instead of being glad that the country does not need additional social transfers for these people. For this reason, I will vote against the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u69	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u70	Your Honor! My vote also goes against this new law on income for reasons that have been repeated several times. And also because modern tax policy should be one of the fundamental principles of moderation and fairness, which should mean that those who have more pay more; and those who have less pay less. This principle is not respected in this law or in many other laws. This novel will place a greater burden on those who have less to reward those who have a huge amount of money with a relatively tight profit of 30 million euros. Those owners of the failed Probanks and Factor Bank, which you have earmarked over EUR 400 million, have preserved their more than 10 million assets in euros. Moreover, they paid off dividends, some of the owners of these banks just a few months before this government was or was. On 6 September, the Bank of Slovenia took the wrong decision. On the other hand, these novels punish those who, instead of putting themselves in a number of places that this country cannot provide work to them and who have suctioned on a public manger through such or other aids — they have found themselves, found work elsewhere, and are creating, paying taxes with their work. You also want to put an extra burden on those, which will only result in the fact that once again a large part of the Slovenian population, as well as entrepreneurship – also formally, not only in fact – moving to another country, Slovenia will become increasingly poorer, opportunities will become less and less. And what is the greatest absurdity of these tax burden increases in the last few months, mathematics will not work out. For the excessive taxation, the excessive increases ultimately result in less consumption, in less consumption. Seizure of oz. tax inflows will eventually be lower, as shown earlier this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u71	Thank you. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. Since there are more of you, I'd like to ask you to report. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u72	Let me say in the introduction that I will oppose this law. My voice will go against it. The key reasons are four. First, it is a wrong concept of approach to budgeting for the following year. We would much rather see such a concept of budget going in a direction to look together at the revenue and expenditure side and find a balance of budget, close to that 3% of GDP deficit. The budget and all decisions over the last six months are fully fueled, towards new taxes. I am afraid that we have started in a similar way to the failure of the Ljubljana Bank in the last few years, when every six months it came before the National Assembly for 200 to 300 million euro recapitalisation, but this game did not come out. The three wrong messages of this law are that when these reliefs are reduced, this law can be said to be antisocial. Therefore, the measure should be different. It is unacceptable that, for reasons that make it easier to grow with more children, families with multiple family members are punished in this way by anti-social policy. As we have heard in the case, the family of four will have more than €300 per year. Even for the message we give to the disabled that their reliefs do not fall, we can peacefully say that they are pro-anti-social for the tax. Even those who, unfortunately because of different circumstances, had to seek their future abroad and look for work outside, we have shown by such a measure the way for someone to decide to move in. A few people came to me, too. I think we should give different messages by adopting laws than we give them by this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u73	Thank you. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I will not support the law on the grounds that I do not support essentially raising taxes as a way of resolving the budget and consolidating public finances. It has been proved that no country before us, which has already been in crisis, has resolved its position by raising taxes. Not by raising taxes on the weakest groups at all. And relatively, this change in income will affect those who have the least who have lower wages. Taking into account the measures we are taking in other laws, for example, in ZIPRO, where we are putting an end to the coordination of pensions that will be difficult for 50 million a year and the abolition of coordination with income that will be difficult for 30 million euros, we can very quickly calculate that only at the expense of working people and pensioners who are already very difficult to live will we save almost 100 million euros. I believe that raising taxes does not in any way lead Slovenia out of the crisis, on the contrary – it reduces consumption and creates even more negative conditions for further economic growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u76	Thank you. It is another law that my young colleagues, especially those educated and with good wages, say with the belly behind the bread. This is another attack on young people, not just those living in border areas with Austria, unless in this way you may be fictitiously reducing unemployment. According to my information, many young people from border towns turn to Austria for work, not just for work. Young Slovenians are no longer looking for real estate on the Real Estate.net website, but in foreign real estate companies. Who else will want to stay in a country where, even with such laws as this one before us, you beat those who are decent and working, and as a result you also burden the economy. I really wonder who else will want to stay in Slovenia, let alone work, because this social government shows its beauty of social work with such laws that young people, especially all the right ones and those with the lowest wages, take it both from the left and right pockets, as called the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u77	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr. Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I do not support raising taxes to fill the budget in this way and, on the other hand, we all promise unions on average and in some way create social peace. The Income Act also imposes an additional burden on the economy, of course the employees, namely those with the lowest income. All those who are not on the so-called labor exchange who have found a job outside the country are saving our budget. And now we're taxing them for the prize. And where else has anyone seen that? I won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u79	Thank you. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. I invite you to report. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I will not support this law because the concept on which this government is building politics is wrong. Instead of saving most of what is needed in the state budget by saving, by rationalising, for example. Officials wouldn't get money from public tenders, they're doing everything the other way around. All measures are designed to impose burdens on citizens after long periods of time and beyond, regardless of whether they can or cannot do any more after these taxes. If they can't do it, they're still sitting on their property. The state budget has many opportunities to rationalise cost-effectively, to reduce needs and to preserve all that is necessary for families to survive normally. If you make a list of the effects of the Income Act on someone who is disadvantaged in income relief and at the same time in disability relief, let's say that one of the members of this family is still a migrant worker, then it is an enormous intervention in the status and position of the family. It is also an enormous intervention for a family that lives on the brink of survival and who are also reduced. valorisation at income, additional taxes are imposed by other taxes. On the other hand, there are privileged groups in this country that are untouchable. They have a standard, they have a superstandard, they have supplements over [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] income that is above average and nothing happens to them. [[…]] And here you cut by length and thread. I will not support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u81	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Alenka Bratušek, President of the Government, has repeatedly stressed that the government of Alenka Bratušek is the government of dialogue. However, the Income Act, which prevents coordination with the cost of living, is not in line with the social partners, is not in line with any union in this country, which means that this government has passed the unions, past the social partners in the National Assembly at the coalition to confirm this law. Other coordination – these coordinations will be no more. There will be no more coordination of social transfers. These are the sums that the most socially weak receive. There will be no pensions or other benefits received by pensioners — a protective allowance and the like. That won't be coordinated either. Lack of coordination means long-term loss of real income. The pensioners, the unemployed, those with the lowest incomes will lose in the long run, because this inflation, this increase in living costs, will never again be included in the base that may once even be coordinated. In the long run, this means an ever-increasing poverty and an ever-increasing decline in real income. People probably still remember inflation. And this inflation is once more in Slovenia than on average in the EU. That means this coalition is going to be on the long run. [[Incomprehensible]] Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not going to support this new law on income. In this Chamber we are talking about new and new tax burdens, that I am almost betrayed by feelings. However, I must say that this amendment to the Income Act is an extremely well-thought-out pianist manoeuvre, how the amendment of the Income Law introduces a crisis tax into Slovenia. It's a new tax that's hidden in the Income Act. Yes, 30 million will be taken away over a period of one year by Slovenes and Slovenians. Where are those two-thirds on the expenditure side to contribute to the consolidation of public finances? What have we actually done in terms of consolidating public finances? We only accept new and new taxes in this house. And that's not good. The bill will come for it sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u85	Thank you. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 32. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17b agenda, this is by re-declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all members of the National Assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. There is an interest to explain the vote on behalf of the groups of Members, so I invite you to report. Mr Michael Prevc will explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, this amendment of the law would be welcome if, in addition to all solutions, this law also contained an article that would eliminate tax secrecy in cases where catastrophic results were found in business. In considering this law, we have proposed that such an addition should be adopted to this article, which would allow for the disclosure of all irregularities that have taken place in banks. It is said that all networks, all connections between administrations, supervisory councils, bank owners and even committees are disclosed to the public. These are the things we know have happened. And if anyone thinks that this nation, without a voice, will quietly devour several billion euros worth of rehabilitation of the banking system, without anyone being responsible, he makes a terrible mistake. The links within these banks should be made public because they caused the main holes in the banking system and not the global crisis, as some people like to say; the global crisis was the one that exposed these irregularities. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have proposed an amendment to this law in order to resolve this law, but unfortunately the coalition did not accept it. That is why we cannot support this law in the Slovenian People's Party today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u87	Thank you. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are very closely monitoring what is happening in the banking system. Above all, we are closely monitoring how we will get the banks to be rehabilitated. As we know, Slovenia is one of the few European countries that has yet to rehabilitate the bank, especially because the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund do not trust the credibility of the data sent by the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Brussels, Frankfurt, Washington. As a result, the situation in the banking system is such that a very large bank hole or a very large bank hole is expected. that there were very many loans, loans given without adequate insurance and that these collaterals would not be large enough to cover this hole. In other words, loans were made on the basis of non-professional criteria, on the basis of friendly ties, based on clienteleistic links. In doing so, neither Banka Slovenije nor the supervisory council nor the management of banks performed their functions or roles. For this reason, we have proposed a solution in the Slovenian Democratic Party to facilitate the identification of responsibility for such a situation in the banking system. Such a solution would be to amend the provision providing for bank secrecy. Bank secrecy today also protects people who have opted for irregular credits to decide on loans based on under-insurance. As a result, there is a huge bank hole that taxpayers will have to pay through higher taxes, even through non-coordinated taxes, non-coordinated pensions and non-coordinated social transfers. That is why it is imperative to demand responsibility. Since the amendment that would increase the responsibility of those who have decided and cared for supervision in the banking system has not been adopted in banks, we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u89	Thank you. I invite you to apply for an explanation of vote on your own behalf. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Law amending and supplementing the Banking Act – a very promising title for amending the law. But it's not like that. Do you remember when we were some of them in 2007, at least I was among them, the Styers were buying KBM shares. We have never dealt with these matters, and there have been many such people who simply believed that this investment in the future of our bank and the future of our economy, and ultimately believed in a share that might come right at some point in the pension. The stock value fell from 27 or 28 euros today to less than 0.2 euros. Out of 10,000 Euros, 100 Euros have fallen. In this way, one part has already been picked up for the citizens. Of course, they had already recovered several times when both the NCBs and the Ljubljana Bank were rehabilitated – I think it was a three-time rehabilitation of the Ljubljana Bank. I remember, in the National Assembly – I had not yet been – several billion were accepted to maintain the production of the TAM factory, and everything went to banks. Other such means – so-called subordinated bonds, subordinated instruments. Remember Minister Križanič, who asked Drava Power Plants to invest EUR 50 million in the so-called rehabilitation of the NKB – and none of this. All of this is paid by people, all of this is paid by taxpayers, it's the Alenka Bratušek formula, taxes squared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u91	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u92	Your Honor! I will not support this law, I will vote against it, I will oppose it. There are two reasons, but the most important thing is that marriage is unfair. Why is he unjust? I am convinced that people with surnames and names are responsible for the situation in the banking system, and there are no more than 20 of them in this country. These are members of bank administrations, credit committees, members of supervisory boards and members of supervisory institutions and regulators, namely Banka Slovenije with presidents. And these people should be the first to answer for the situation in the banking system, and then everyone else, including the owners. But they descend through all those responsible — no one has been harmed. On the contrary, they received and received prizes, while many of the consequences of this law will be known on the holders of subordinate mandatory and hybrid bonds, which are likely to be fully dissolved, it is a new law on deleted ones. This law will erase the contributions of people who believed in the Slovenian banking system, trust him, buy securities under different conditions that you are changing today and on the basis of which they will be dissolved. This is guilt, and that's not right. Another reason is that you have prevented the deletion of bank secrecy when we are talking about transactions in banks receiving state aid and transactions where contractual obligations are not respected. Where imported transactions are handled by taxpayers, bank secrecy should be eliminated. You have not supported this, our amendment and this is also one of the fundamental reasons why I will oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u93	Thank you. Before I give you my word, I would just like to warn you that there are too many voices in the Chamber, when the word has only the one who has an explanation of vote, so I ask you to understand. If you want to talk, do it in the lobby. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There's nothing I can do to support this marriage. The Coalition and the government of Alenka Bratušek have decided to protect those who have destroyed our country's banking system. Protect those who should be held accountable for their actions. You're protecting Banka Slovenije as the biggest culprit for a big bank hole, which we don't really know today is whether it's 5 billion, or whether it's 10, or maybe even more. And since you have not supported the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which could thus bring before the right hand those responsible for granting credit without adequate coverage, there is no way that I can support this law. It is surprising that Members and Members of Parliament who, last year, have advocated how the government of John Janša is unsocial, untransparent and similar, today support this law. I do not have an impact on the vote, but it is important to know that the first responsibility is that of Members and Members of Parliament to point to those who deserve it – and if any, then they are the most responsible persons in banks. But I'm talking about those banks, system banks, where the state is the majority owner. And just because you're preventing those responsible from coming to justice, I can't support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The amendment of the Banks Act was an ideal opportunity for the current government coalition to show our citizens, at a real and symbolic level, that it had cut the cord with those who had robbed our banks that had brought this country to the brink of collapse; and to incorporate into the law provisions and articles that would allow for a clear transparent display of who was responsible for what happened for the crime that happened in our banks. Unfortunately, however, this coalition was unable to do so. This coalition has rejected the provisions on banking secrecy, which are urgently needed in order to clarify these matters. If the coalition is standing in a defensive position, those circles and centres of power that now control this money and rule this country, even though they should adopt laws here that could rule in this country. And, as Professor Secretary has said, in recent years, 11 billion money has been transferred from Slovenian companies to banks abroad. Maybe the stress tests will show an even bigger number. And with this terrible number, this coalition didn't want to decide to go after what happened and bring some of that money back. It is believed that the real people will benefit from it. I can't support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u98	I will vote against the adoption of this law myself. We are talking about banking and we are going to talk a lot about banking in Parliament because we are really missing the opportunity. When we talk about banking, we always talk about trust, about banking secrecy. And it will really be necessary to have confidence that what we are doing, what we are doing in banks, is leading the country from the crisis, to which the bankers and those who accepted credit have brought it to a great extent. This law is intended to devalue or even disqualify those who have invested in banks. When we dealt with the guarantee for the two banks that were going into liquidation, we protected those who invested in the banks. I do not understand why in this law, where on the one hand we had the opportunity, as my colleague Prevc and my colleagues from SDS have said, to accept that for banks going into liquidation and for loans that we will transfer as bad claims to the Company for the Management of Bad Claims and, as a result, partly into public debt, we will not open Pandora's Box. In many countries where the crisis occurred precisely because of this economic-bank threshold and abnormally high investment expectations, this problem was addressed by opening the book very quickly and finding everyone responsible for it. And until we take this step, colleagues and colleagues – and this opportunity has been missed – there will be a huge problem of confidence in the banking system in Slovenia and, to a large extent, the decline in deposits in banks, which is the result of this. I think we're making a mistake. We should take matters more seriously and more decisively and demonstrate the will to really want those who have been signed both on the left and on the right hand side to stand where they belong — before the hand of responsibility. But no one ever thought what was misleadingly said was that someone would like to see a bank role or something like that. Those with bad loans will have to show what they've done in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Our parliamentary group regularly visits regions across Slovenia, and on the Tribunals in several places we also present the current situation in the country. And the citizens point out the problems in banks. For the second time, they will have to be repaired and no longer agree to be cured without the culprits being found. Everyone knows what they have to bring to the bank to get a few thousand Euros of credit, so they don't understand how someone could get a million on credit, how they insured that loan, whether no one reviewed its revenues, so that this loan would once be returned, just as each individual should. And when we tell them that it is bank secrecy, they understand even less — what bank secrecy if someone does not return what he has borrowed! At the session on the state of the banks requested in the SDS, one of the conclusions was also to publish the data publicly. The coalition was against it at the time, although the Banking Act already states that bank secrecy is not when the bank goes bankrupt or into liquidation. We had a chance here to change that. In the SDS, we believe that there can be no tax confidentiality in the case of lumbars. It is necessary to find the culprits, and because the coalition does not want to do so, we wanted to do so with our proposal. Apparently, this coalition wants to hide these scoundrels, hide these scoundrels, don't want to punish them, although it often talks about it; but with the banking law that you want to accept today, it's nice to cover everything up. We've seen this case at Probank and Factor Bank, so we won't support this law in the SDS, and I won't support it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u102	My voice will go against this law, too. The global economic, global financial crisis is precisely due to concealment, concealment, adjusted balance sheets and this syndrome has shifted to all other areas. Slovenia is not immune to this virus either. The coalition has shown by this law that it wishes to continue to hide those who are responsible for the enormous crater in the banking financial institutions. With this legislation, you have made it clear that those privileged to access more than 10 million loans on the basis of a telephone call have also been privileged to recover this money. One way was implemented in the rehabilitation of works in the Taiwanese Probank and Factor Bank; another way in all others, including those that were not taught by investors. This will further create imbalances in a society that will continue to sink and will not rest until legislation has been adopted that will allow those heads that are carefully pressed under the covers to become entrenched until these heads finally get behind bars. This law does not allow this. This law allows for further cover-up and allows some people in this country to experience even greater injustice. And on the other hand, that some will continue to be privileged. What is the reason why those who have taken tens of millions of credits and will never return them, or what is the reason not to process those who have publicly reported on one of the public televisions that they have influenced, are still highly quoted in Slovenian ruling policies and nothing happens. The reason is that this coalition of these names [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u103	Thank you. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. I won't support the law. This law is another proof of great diversion and proof that we still have first- and second-class citizens in Slovenia. First- and second-rate citizens are separated by paying one tax while others benefit from it. It's not 15 minutes ago, dear colleagues and colleagues, when you very vehemently confirmed the law that you're going to draw out of your pocket people, those who live the worst, 30 million euros. 30 million euros. In a few hours, you'll be vehemently confirming the law that will be our citizens and our citizens. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u105	Mrs. Tomc, leave the others alone, they'll tell you how they're going to vote, just explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u106	I will vote against this law precisely because I am disturbed by the overburden of citizens with new taxes and, on the other hand, by the protection of those who enjoy the fruits and fruits of these taxes. The Banking Act was an ideal opportunity to realise the government's announcement by Alenka Bratušek to reveal everything that needs to be revealed, to be punished and answered by those who in the past have been working in the lumpariums, as my colleagues say. But that's not gonna happen. You continue to protect bank secrecy. Let me get this straight. We don't protect bank secrecy in any case. This must exist, but when taxpayers have to cover the costs that others have made, then you have to tell who these people are paying for.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u108	I thank my father for giving me some normality, and I am aware that I will not keep my hands on people in Slovenia who have robbed Slovenian taxpayers, citizens and citizens and all those who put their small savings in these banks. Ljubljana has had two major natural disasters in the last hundred years. The first natural disaster was the Ljubljana earthquake in April 1895, and the second Ljubljana disaster was the Ljubljana Bank in all these years, which has been recapitalised by many citizens and citizens. And what comes in the coming days will sometimes shake Slovenian taxpayers. What I'm trying to say is that you're socializing the blame for everything that's happened. A good year ago, you spoke here about Iceland, you talked about how citizens took the initiative and what they did with the Icelandic banks. You're all quiet today. I don't know why you don't support this. Slovenia is not Switzerland, Slovenia is not Liechtenstein, does not have a long tradition of conservative banking, we do not have the role of many foreign companies and as such would not lose anything. But I could give you a lot. We could give a signal that we think seriously that we have become a just, good country, that foreigners can believe us and that they would also gain Slovenian banking in the long run. I'm not voting for this law. I have to admit, I'm sad. However, I am pleased that we are going to the public air to see who is on the side of those who will have to bear the socialised blame for all the irregularities that have taken place in Slovenia alone within banks. I confirm once again that I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u109	Thank you. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I don't know what law my colleagues were talking about, who explained their voice to me, but I will support the banking law. This law discusses how to implement measures to strengthen the stability of banks, how to establish capital adequacy and other operating conditions for banks, how to ensure the security of deposits, the remaining deposits in banks and how to ensure better conditions for subordinated debt holders compared to the current situation. In doing so, the law summarises EU legislation and lays down a rule that seems extremely fair; that is, that their owners are responsible for bank debts first, only then the taxpayers. Something fairer than this rule is hard to imagine. In addition, the law introduces a fourfold extension of the limitation of criminal offences for those who have committed offences within the meaning of criminal offences on the banking system. More specifically, it sets out the obligations of those who have to report if they have noticed the offences and a number of measures. In doing so, the bank’s owners shall ensure that they cannot be paid less than they would have been paid if bankruptcy occurred. This law seeks to prevent bank bankruptcy by calling the bank's co-owners to account. But if the bankruptcy still occurs, they're insured or they're not. are insured in any case with a limit to which they would be entitled to bankruptcy. This measure will be again ordered by Banka Slovenije and, in my opinion, is extremely fair and in order to address those who benefited from the bank, not taxpayers and depositors. No country in Europe [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] so that we don't have bank secrecy. [[…]] Only you gentlemen can't understand it and you don't want to understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In deciding again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act, this law will not receive my support. With the banking system, ladies and gentlemen, we play too much. The late Minister of Finance, according to experts' estimates so far, has always said that when we talk about banks, we have to close. Banks are not discussed in open sessions. These discussions often involve political discussions, we are confusing the banking system, between citizens and citizens. And that's wrong. We harm banks and harm investors and harm the economy. But we have committed an original sin, which this law does not. I am sure that this coalition also has no intention of eliminating the original sin – and this is, more plastically, that Slovenia is in the company of 8 countries with the largest ownership stake in banks. And you know who's in this company with us? Costa Rica, Sri Lanka, Ethiopia, India, Iraq, Syria, Cuba and Slovenia love us. Welcome to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Brane Golubovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u114	Nice hello to you all! I agree with all those who say that there have been lumps in our banks and that loans have been paid out without guarantees. The analysis shows that this was to the greatest extent in the years 2005 to 2008. We all demand responsibility, but there is a risk that certain irregularities or even criminal offences will expire, and this law brings four times the age limit. If there was an limitation period of 5 years, it is now 20 years, because this law seeks to find responsible persons so that these persons do not become obsolete. The second thing – the NPU, the prosecution, the police, this law makes it much easier to access confidential data. Third thing. In case of suspicion, bank administrations and supervisors should also provide the relevant authorities with confidential information because they did not need to, I do not know why. We introduce a number of things through this law, which will allow the relevant authorities to find the culprits for the bank hole and – as my colleagues and colleagues say – the lumpari. That's why I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the following word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not support this marriage. In these debates, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has made a number of arguments about why we oppose this law. I'm trying to spread the national interest with bank secrecy. Throughout this time we have deceived our people, the Slovenian people, and spoken about the importance of the national interest of this country. Look where this country, these citizens, has brought us national interest. The national interest, as well as the national interest represented in the banks, has brought this country to the brink of bankruptcy, the brink of barbaricism, thievery and the site of the century. However, we would like to continue on this path so that those who are thus "spoiled" to banks and other matters of national interest can still fill networks and continue to live super-privileged – on the one hand. On the other hand, most citizens and citizens are below the poverty line. If we are going to continue to adopt such legislation in the National Assembly, I must say that I am extremely ashamed of myself in front of my Slovenian people. I'm extremely ashamed to look them in the face. When they say that we are in politics and in the National Assembly, all the bastards themselves — I will not bear this burden for long and will not allow myself. I will therefore oppose all four that such legislation will no longer be adopted in the National Assembly in the future. And that is why I am going to vote absolutely against this law because it is still trying to follow this path, which I am talking about, which is harmful, very harmful for all the Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u117	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment to the Banking Act is based on a recommendation from the European Commission, the European Central Bank, etc. The change is made because in our banking system, it seems to be really bad. And it appears that this banking system will cost Slovenian taxpayers a lot of money. A lot of money because the banks are state-owned and will have to be recapitalised with tax money or with money that will be repaid by future generations. The state will have to commit itself and the interest will be paid by future generations, because some generation has caused these debts by foolishly operating and managing state banks. And on the one hand, when we come to specific measures for these banks; on the other hand, we do not come to the point where we can identify responsibility for the measures that are wrong and consequently the responsibility for future generations to pay interest due to debt, due to wrong decisions in banks. If you are taking measures in the field of taxation of the poorest to reduce pensioners' real income and unemployed people's social transfers, then there is no way that I can agree with such a policy and I will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u119	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr President, it is a little difficult to speak only to the cameras and not to the people in the National Assembly because they do not listen, at least the ones on the balcony. And in the end, you get your grade. All right, I'll do my best to explain. I will vote against this law. One of the fundamental problems of this marriage is lying. On the one hand, people can't know why they're gonna pull money out of his pocket to pay for the tycoons in these two banks. They can't know that. All they can know is how much they're gonna have to pay. That's absurd. And then, as some people say – and so I will vote against the law – "how is it now possible for the criminal police to do 10 years", blah, blah, blah. It's not like that. Why isn't that so? Because that's not how it works in practice. I sent a list to the Attorney General for two and a half billion years ago, and it all said who got the credit, why he didn't return it, how much he owed it, everything was there. After a year and a half, the result is nothing. Why? Because Prosecutor Fisher, who only drives on the left, does nothing. See, that's why this is bullshit, what you're saying. And I will reject the law or vote against it. Will I get a grade, Mr. President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u121	Excellent, Dr. Gorenak. There is still an interest in explanation and I invite you to report. Mr. Jože Tanko has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I won't support the law because things are going wrong with us. The owners of the errors in the banking system pay absolutely nothing. In the case of Factor Banka and Probank, the owners paid off high dividends just a few months before the imposition of the compulsory liquidation, and emptied the bank. Now we've taken care of the rehabilitation of banks and banks. You've gone to rehabilitating banks with a state budget, with a government guarantee and an outflow of about €400 million. Our attempt to eliminate bank secrecy in these cases to find out those who caused it, you have only blocked three times in the last three months. I don't understand why coalition protection is necessary for those who broke into our banking system. We are the only country in Europe that protects those who have hacked into the banking system and robbed it and left the burdens to taxpayers. Such matters need to interfere with the income, such matters need to interfere with pensions, and such matters need to reduce the resources for the work of firefighting companies, etc. This is a direct consequence of such measures that we are witnessing and are measures in the field of budgetary policy, as this is combined. And if the coalition thinks they can hide these things for a long time, they're probably wrong. It will be necessary to open things up, load the burdens of those who have caused them, and give oxygen to those who have not earned these burdens. The policies you run go in the opposite direction, the burdens of those who have had nothing to do with such works and such loony bins, and on no account burdens those who have caused such things. And the law [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u123	Since the concentration in the debates in the Chamber has again decreased slightly, I would like to remind you that you are trying to limit your conversations and do not disturb the debaters. Mr. Chehovin, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Contrary to members of the opposition who have not read most of the law, I will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u125	Mr. Chehovin, the controversy is not allowed, so I must warn you immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u126	Because I want the bad bank to start working. Without this law, it would be like buying a car without wheels. And one more thing. It's usually the way to catch a thief who screams the most, the one who has the most fingers in it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u127	Mr. Chehovin, I didn't see you voting for the law. Thank you. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a real estate tax law by emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 13 November 2013, which you received on the e-club. Following this review, the amendments were tabled under Article 4 and we are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 4 tabled by the New Slovenia Group. I invite you to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday we talked long and wide about why we tabled this amendment and why we want to improve the basic text or the amended proposal for a real estate tax law. This time only by asking coalition Members and Members of Parliament for their support. As an investor, the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u129	Mr. Magg has the word. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. In Article 4, which provides for a taxable person, we make an amendment that the taxable person is strictly the owner of the property, that he may be a legal person or a natural person, not anyone but the tenant, because the tenants are in a worse position than those who actually own it. In fact, this law will have the greatest impact on the social situation in our country, including through this provision and through other provisions. Why? Because this law is inconsistent with the entire history of how people acquired real estate. And today, there is a huge difference between the value of the property and the incomes of the owners of the property. We know the specifics that have happened over the years, the way people have come to their homes. This will result in the extremely high taxation of all properties, with extremely high taxation of agricultural areas, grasslands, forests and fields, including agricultural premises, all warehouses, business premises, industrial premises, and so on, that those who create and contribute to the country's exit from the crisis will not be able to pay such an obligation. As a result, they will have to sell real estate, including those with apartments today, in connection with the assessment of real estate by banks, where it will be significantly lower. Yesterday you could have read that the Bank Claims Management Company said the value of transfers would be 4 billion and that this value was estimated at one billion to one and a half billion. That was in public school.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u131	Mr Shircelj, the first amendment to Article 4 must be explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u132	This means that the value of real estate, including those in which tenants live, will be significantly lower. Since it will be significantly lower, there will be a collapse in the real estate market and these debtors, tenants in this case, will pay a much higher tax, an unfair tax than they would if they imposed market conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u133	Thank you. There is still an interest in explaining the vote on your own behalf, so I invite you to report. In the meantime, I would like to remind you that the vote on the first amendment tabled by Nova Slovenije is Article 4. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I must say in advance my support for the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party and also by the amendment of New Slovenia. It is unacceptable that the real estate law imposes a burden on real estate tenants. This is unacceptable behaviour, and I think that by doing so you are putting your attitude towards a social and just state, and by this proposal, when you have made it in this law, you are burdening those who are most socially at risk. [[..]] When you talk about how the government of Alenka Bratusek is social and just, there is an opportunity to correct your mistake. I'm going to give my support to this amendment, and I think it would be wise for others to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u135	Thank you. I would like to remind you that you are trying to explain the reasons why you will vote in favour or against. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u136	If I understand correctly, we are discussing the first amendment to Article 4. We have four amendments. My friend Shirtzel is running a little fast, but since he's running out of time, I don't think there's anything wrong with taking this chance. I will support this amendment – all four amendments are interconnected – and I supported it with the desire to improve something that cannot be improved. But since there is no other way, because you have closed all the other roads because you have prevented us from discussing this law in a different way, it is necessary to use the parliamentary mechanism, which is the only one available and which is called the amendment of the law, in which case unacceptable and bad law. And it's unacceptable, and it's bad, Article 4. It will remain poor and unacceptable, even if all three amendments of the opposition are adopted, both first, second and third, but at least to some extent the robustness of the provisions in the law will be softened. The real estate tax or real estate tax is an area that has been towed for quite some time in that country. And also this coalition, the government, through individual ministers' statements, has consistently argued that this law will only compensate existing tax burdens, compensation for the use of building land, property taxes and compensation for the use of forest roads. That didn't happen. And even in this article, solutions are different than if the coalition followed its own statements, which it had made to the public months ago. As I said, this amendment to the 4th Article of the New Slovenia Group will be supported and I invite the rest of you to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u137	Thank you. We are voting on the first amendment by 4. A member. The proposal is the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment by 4. A member. The drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. I would like to remind you that if an amendment is adopted under this point, the amendments under points 3 and 4 will become irrelevant. I invite you to explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Jakob Preseknik has the floor [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In opening, let me say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we oppose such a property tax law. As we are constantly aware that this bill will be passed by the coalition, we have tried to improve this law with some amendments at least a little. And the amendment under Article 2 to 4 speaks of trying to amend paragraph 3 of this Article and deleting the third indent in paragraph 8 of this Article. This implies that the proposed solution in paragraph 3 provides that if the ownership relationships are not regulated, are not properly recorded in the real estate register or are not established, the tax shall be redistributed to those co-owners whose shares are indisputable. This does not seem fair or fair to us, so this burden must be fairly divided into known owners. By deleting the third indent of the eighth paragraph, however, we are interfering with the rental property because we consider it unacceptable to bear the obligation to pay the tax on the tenant, a tax which is in any event an obligation on the owner. This comes from ownership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u139	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Romana Tomc will explain the vote [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I will explain my vote on behalf of the Group of Members because it is the same amendments. The proposal proposed to delete the third paragraph of paragraph 8 of this Article solves the conceptual approach in this law. The concept of the law is laid down in such a way that the owner pays the tax. Only this point provides for an exception. In certain cases, which the coalition is trying to correct with some completely unnecessary amendment, the tax should be paid by the tenant, in those cases where the tenants, usually socially weak, live in apartments that have been denationalised. There is no reason for socially weak tenants to cover the tax costs for owners who have sometimes acquired very large assets through denationalisation procedures. This is the first important substantive reason. The second reason is entirely technical. I don't think the government has ever anticipated how to act if this tenant, because he's socially weak, won't be able to pay the tax. The law stipulates that in this case he will get a real estate or. its owner, on its behalf, of a tax debt. The tenant will also be able to conscientiously decide not to pay the tax and the debt will run to the owner of the property because the concept of the law is so set. For substantive and technical reasons, this provision in the law is totally inappropriate and unnecessary. Our amendment, as well as the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, solves this misunderstanding that has taken place.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u141	Thank you. There is still an interest in explaining the voice in its own name. Since there are more of you, I invite you to report. The explanation for the vote is the second amendment to Article 4 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please focus on the content of this amendment. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support this amendment because it removes the unfair proposal that, in the case of the property where more owners are not regulated and this co-ownership is not properly regulated, it is not properly arranged to pay the tax only to the owner of the property which has its property in the records. This is not fair, and we therefore suggest that in such a case the records should be regulated, that the geodetic administration should be assisted. The tax administration is in the final stage the one that can charge taxes to owners of such property, where there are several owners, only when it is clearly recorded, who and how many owners are registered as owners of a property. This is also one of the reasons why we warned the People’s Party that the real estate law was too fast. He can't follow the emergency procedure, just like we accepted him. It's a law that takes time. This is a law that would take at least one year to resolve such irregularities that you are quick to resolve in this article. And that, in the way we propose, he may also be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u143	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party because we are abolishing or waving the rule of law laid down in Article 2 of the Constitution, which includes, inter alia, the principles of certainty and clarity. In Article 4 of the Law, Mr Prevc has already said that there is no delimitation in certain properties, who is the real owner, what shares are that the records are incomplete. Complementing this Article is an urgent need, so I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Amendments, as long as they go through, I will support it, because if the first one is adopted, then the others are irrelevant. They probably won't be supported in the coalition, which is good on the one hand, because the marriage has a lot of holes. With the help of the opposition, if its amendments were to be supported, any judgments in the Constitutional Court or the possibility of the law falling on the Constitutional Court would be resolved. The law is harmful to the national economy and the law is unfair to citizens and citizens. Harmful for the national economy and unjust. He's guilty in the first part of paragraph 3, where he says you'll pay the tax for the part that wasn't distributed as property. In a regulated legal country, the owner of the property would pay the property tax he owns, not for anything else. He is unfair to citizens in the part where he says that the tax is an obligation of the owner and cannot be – this is in 8. Paragraph – may not be the burden of the lessee. Even less, this is the obligation of those who have reached the rental of such an apartment after an administrative or judicial decision and also those who are socially at risk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u148	Nice greeting, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are constantly reminding you that such a system law should not be adopted in an emergency procedure and with such an ewe as is acceptable. As has already been said, marriage is unjust, it is not fair, and what is very important is taken against the will of men. 70 thousand have already been signed under a petition that opposes this law. Coalitions don't care about that. The government doesn't care. It also adopts such a provision where the amendment and I wanted to correct the mistake. If you do not accept the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, you will tax someone who owns 30% of a property with some additional percentage because the land books are not regulated. I had a chance to see the owners myself. People who were born in 1830 are still registered as owners. It's gonna be very hard to find that guy and burden him with these things. In this part, we wanted to avoid that this missing percentage of ownership would not be distributed proportionally to the owners who have this proportion misled, but rather that the accounting situation should be regulated and a fair tax determined, to measure the owner of the share in which it is. One in a series of several amendments, apparently already in advance today, being condemned not to accept them, probably because they are proposed by the opposition because they have not been proposed by the coalition or because I do not know why. I think that this is one of those amendments, which in no way interferes with the financial consequences, does not undermine your basic conceptual error to catch 200 million new taxes to patch up the budget hole, but would only establish a fair state among the owners of real estate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u149	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I will support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and also of the Slovenian People's Party, because they determine roughly the same. They simply provide that the taxable person is the owner of the property, not the tenant. If a tax obligation is passed on to the tenant – in addition to being socially unfair, it is also in legal terms extremely complex or creates so many open issues, including for the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance. It can also significantly reduce the financial impact of this tax because the tenants will not pay the tax. And since the tenants will not pay the tax, the tax administration will be able to make a mark on this property and the owner will be able to lose the property in the extreme. Conceptually, this is completely wrong. The amendment proposed by the opposition increases the financial impact of this tax to a large extent, thus reducing the rates. The amendment provides greater legal certainty for taxpayers, all taxpayers. However, as you have listened to some lobbying or interest groups in this direction to transfer the tax burden to the tenant, you are involved in the entire law and in the implementation of the law itself, which reduces the financial impact of the whole tax. This law is actually harmful, and even with that amendment you want to propose in the third reading, don't do anything because you're breaking the system. That is why I will support the amendments that delete this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u151	Thank you. Mrs. Irena Tavčar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Let me announce that both amendments to Article 4 – both the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party – will be supported. If we followed the speech closely on Monday. The government's explanation of the real estate tax, stated that whoever has no real estate, would not pay any taxes. So that's not true. In this article, despite the amendment or amendment proposed by the coalition, this statement is not true, which proves that this law is not known, and unfortunately also by the President of the Government, which is why I support both amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u153	Thank you, too. I invite you to apply for explanations of vote to the second amendment to Article 4, the drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! I'm listening to this debate myself, and I listened to it on Monday. I think that the arguments that we are making in defending both our amendment and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party are interim and I will support them myself. In some ways, however, I am surprised by the lack of interest in listening to these arguments, for on the other hand, they give us the opportunity to make a constitutional judgement in some way successful. All the arguments that have now been cited in the case of not supporting both our amendment and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party in some way give this law an exception, which will probably be an additional argument when the law has to be judged from constitutional point of view, and I am very pleased if you do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u156	Thank you. We're with an article that talks about taxpayers. The amendments to this article already show the facts that point us to the fact that the urgent procedure for the adoption of this law is completely pointless, unnecessary and even harmful. I think that the amendment is very justified both by the People's Parties and by the SDS Group. According to the discussion on the working body, this government is or is. the government coalition deliberately or willfully intended to give this tax to the taxpayers who are the tenants. Personally, I think this is some kind of arrangement with certain housing funds; but we all know where the housing fund is the strongest, this is in the Municipality of Ljubljana. And in order for Ljubljana not to pay this tax, she was obstinately willing to pay this tax to the tenants. Why am I talking about this? If the coalition had serious interests in order to settle these matters in the way that taxpayers would be solely owners of apartments or real estate, it would have already brought such an amendment to the home work body meeting that would destroy it. When there was a debate on the committee where the opposition colleagues made a very reasoned statement on what you were doing with this law, and brought to the meeting of the National Assembly an amendment that has no importance, you still want to burden not only the owners of the property in Slovenia, but also the tenants with the tax. In my opinion, this is constitutionally controversial and another proof that this law is stupid and even unnecessary due to emergency admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u157	Thank you. There is still an interest in explanation of vote, so I invite you to report. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u158	I support this amendment. In the first part, the provision that the amendment wants to amend is extremely unfair. It tells us that if the co-ownership is not diversified, everyone pays the tax in the same parts. This means that the poor who have less would pay for those who have more. But unfortunately, this is the concept of the whole law, not just this article. That's the concept of the whole law. The whole law speaks of poorer paying for those who have more. I have already said a specific case several times, and this case is not from one of the local communities, but from all over Slovenia. Large shopping malls located in the country on dozens of oz. Even hundreds, they will pay three to five times less tax than they pay the current compensation for the use of building land. But they're problematic. They can't work. Have any of these gone to bankruptcy by now, I ask you? No, no, no. And who's gonna pay more? Production, crafts, farmers, those who built their own dwellings with their work and were not on the shoulders of the country. And they're gonna pay for you. This is the concept of the whole law and cannot be avoided by this Article in the third paragraph. And the second part, which is the same as the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, third indent of paragraph 8, is full of you social. To those who have non-profit apartments, you wanted to suspend the payment of this tax, since the administrative decision is also a decision to grant an apartment issued by the municipality or a municipal or municipal fund. It has to be said that no compensation has been paid for these apartments so far, nor have the owners of the compensation paid, but you would now burden even the tenants who in 90 or 95 % of the cases received these apartments because they cannot afford them themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, would you like to explain your voice? Here you go, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Voting on the amendments is a political decision. And you have it in your coalition agreement that you will argue political decisions, and none of the Members will argue them. I would like to remind you that this provision is written as Mr Lukšič said at one of the press conferences. There he said that it was necessary to punish those who had received the denationalisation property. And just as the solution to this article has been set up, or as you will vote it, you have passed the rent on to tenants, owners will not know whether the tenants are paying or not, and the debt in the land book will be paid to them. As a result, this means that in a longer period of time, since these people cannot be evicted, there will be a decommissioning of property and a renationalisation. I don't think it's opportunistic that you're proposing such an unfair political solution. I will support both the solution of the Slovenian People's Party and that proposed by us. However, I agree with all colleagues who have found that the law is non-systematic, saying that it interferes with those who are being taxed. Part of the law is built and constructed on those who own the property and part on those who are the tenants of the property or some who exclude it. And in this way, it must be very difficult for you to talk about some systemic solutions, especially when I see that some Members are only now being consulted by the Secretary of State, what a solution means. Procedures in this law have gone completely wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u161	Thank you. There is still an interest in explanation of vote, so I invite you to report. We will vote on the second amendment to Article 4. Mrs. Janja Attack has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I'll support the amendment because it's in conflict with common farming logic. Young people can't take credit either way, we rent, and then, let's say, we pay the property tax. We wonder how fair that was, how this property would be registered, and then we would pay it honestly. The evaluation was very unprofessional in the past. A number of family budgets would burden this tax more than has been charged so far, estimated to be two to three times on average. The proposed law does not take into account the eligibility criteria for housing, which is the criterion for the granting of non-profit housing, and does not take into account the status of a large family with three or more children up to the age of 18 years, as foreseen by the Property Tax Act. You thus endanger the peaceful age or life of farmers and us — young ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u164	I must point out that we have reconsidered our decisions today on the solution to this article and finally decided to insist on coalition-coordinated solutions. Let me say here that in the entire debate, and not only today at this point, but also at the previous points where the explanations were given, many half-truths are introduced, if not false – all, obviously, with a view to making the public even more revolutionary at the time of this tax. The basic solution to the proposed law before it was amended by the Finance Committee was indeed in paragraph 9 of the previous paragraph to place the burden on the tenant of such an apartment in the event of non-profit renting. This provision is not in the law that is before us today and at this point in time. There is no such provision in this law. In the context of the third indent of the eighth paragraph, which you are now referring to, whether an administrative decision or a judicial decision, the coalition is proposing an additional amendment in which a more precise interpretation of what the situation is actually. With regard to the solution to the tenants of denationalised dwellings, we have also again debated the proposed solution in the coalition amendment. Since this rent is already regulated, it makes sense in this point, which is a clear and harmful consequence of the denationalisation process, to follow the solutions proposed by the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u165	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party and later the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about evaluations today, then this concept law deserves nothing. This is an exclusive example of legislative conceptual confusion. If what we have right now is explained by five lawyers, we'll get 20 different explanations. I don't know how this law will be implemented. Otherwise, lawyers have already told themselves that it is a house of cards when we talk about the proposal for a real estate tax law. We expected, colleagues and colleagues, because it is an extremely important, as you say, system law in the field of taxes, that you will also invite the opposition to participate. Your moral cat wouldn't be as big as it's gonna be today, believe me. And we just don't get any invitations, you want to do everything yourself in this country. And we're doing fine. You're doing well. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, when we have given up on this government to cooperate constructively, we have put forward a proposal for talks to the President of the Republic, Mr Pahor. He has taken this initiative of ours and I hope that we will take some step in this area, because we are still saying that we can get rid of ourselves. The amendment's support on my part.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u167	Thank you. I would, however, point out that we should remain focused on the second amendment to Article 4 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mrs. Alexander Osterman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will not support the opposition's amendments, because Article 4 does not provide that tenants of profitable or non-profit dwellings pay a tax on real estate, but that the debtors are the owners of dwellings or real estates. Please don't fool me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u169	Good thing you're trying to clarify the content of the article's amendment. I propose that we talk about what relates to the co-ownership relationship and the obligation to pay. The next one has the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I'll support the amendment. The effect of this law will in practice be one. There will be a new nationalisation. And it is in those layers that you kubaji support the most — those who built with their work a house that had an apartment, that they might have bought it by way of an independent law, and somehow tied the thread with a thread, every day. As the law says, their property will gradually move to a different level, and eventually they will lose everything. History is about learning something from it. One nationalisation had already been experienced by Slovenia and then saw how those who had benefited from it had lost everything that had been. You are already spending in advance, and you are preparing nationalisation as your last measure. Of course, this nationalization means that one day we will all live worse, that people will be left without what they have right now. Above all, the law is written in such a way that it bears the responsibility of one another. We know who the real estate's gonna be and who's gonna be the one who spends the money. It will be used by the state, consumed by the government — everyone else, including the congregations, will be poorer because of the law before you today. That is why this amendment must be adopted and the best thing to do is to reject the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u171	Thank you. The word has Mr. Andrej Chuš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Let me begin by saying that I will support the proposed amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors as well as the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. In this part, this law is definitely an attack on young and young families. Whether you have spoken in a transitional manner here, allow me to read Article 4, paragraph 8, third indent: "Despite the first paragraph of this Article, the taxable person for residential property leased on a non-profit basis on the basis of an administrative or judicial decision, is a natural or legal person who is in the register of the real estate market on 1 January of the year for which the tax is levied, registered as a tenant." And when we listened here and in public a few days ago to our President of the Government and as government representatives, how full of mouths it was that the tenants would not be harmed by this tax. Now I don't know if we're stupid or if someone's acting that way. And young people today can't get loans, at least not those that would allow for self-reliance and the purchase of some real estate. And now we're going to be young and young families, because they took the apartment for rent, punished and will pay the tax. And when I listen to the President of the Government talk in broad terms about how the problem of young people is solved – something is said, but it is done quite differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u173	Thank you. We decide on the second amendment to Article 4, the drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. If the amendment is adopted under this point, the amendment under point 3 has also been adopted and the amendment under point 4 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 48. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to Article 4, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I would like to remind you that if an amendment under this point is adopted, the amendment under point 4 becomes irrelevant. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u174	Thank you very much. In fact, there is another possibility that this law will be rectified, that it will also have a greater financial impact, that it will be more transparent and that there will be no complications in the accounting and payment of taxes themselves. And these are completely technical and financial reasons. It is necessary to give those people who do not have their own apartment who cannot get to their apartment, and these are older people and younger people who have no chance of taking credit, not because they are tenants and the bank does not recognise it, so it is necessary to give them the opportunity not to pay that tax on behalf of the owner, whoever this owner is. And we know that very many apartments are provided by the municipality in the so-called non-profit lease; the municipality of Ljubljana has huge apartments which it provides for non-profit rentals. In this case, the municipality should be a taxable person and it would be appropriate for the municipality to be a taxable person. We talked a lot about an amendment that would bring more money to this congregation, three million more money. However, it is easy to place the tax on the weakest, on the one receiving social benefits, on the one who is unemployed, on the one who is a pensioner with a minimum pension, they will have to pay the tax. And, ladies and gentlemen, even conceptually, this is not right. It's wrong and it's not fair. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes that the taxable person or taxpayer is solely the owner of the property and that there are no derogations here. This is also the case in other countries. One more time. It is unacceptable that the total tax burden should be borne [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] an extremely high tax on the income of the people they have in this country is passed on to the tenant. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u175	Thank you. There is also an interest in explaining the voice in its own name. Since there are more of you, I invite you to report. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this amendment, to delete the third indent of Article 4, paragraph 8, is an opportunity for you to defend the great wisdom of the prime minister expressed in the course of the budgetary debate. She said that whoever didn't own the property wouldn't pay the property tax. This is such wisdom that I declare it the first fiscal law of Alenka Bratušek, compared to Newton's first law in physics. Of course, you will break this law if you do not support our amendment. If you don't support this, the tenants will pay the property tax, and Mrs Bratusek's marriage will be gone. Therefore, it is logical and useful to support this and at the same time you will do something to ensure that young families in Slovenia are not further burdened. It is not clear to me what logic prevails so that such power can be put on unprivileged layers in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u177	Thank you, too. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u178	Thank you very much again for your word. Of course, I will also support this amendment. It seems strange to me that I don't know if I have any other real estate law in front of me like you, a respected coalition. That's what this law says, what we're trying to fix with this amendment, it says in this law. If the basic point of this law is that the property tax is paid by the owner of the property, then this should apply to all. Then let this also apply to renters of non-profit apartments. Who are the tenants of non-profit apartments? The ones from the social goods, the ones who are most at risk, especially the young families. That's why I always say, this marriage is unfair to the weakest, this marriage is unfair to young people, this marriage is unfair to young families, this marriage is unfair to large families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Romana Tomc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u180	Thank you very much. But now we are with the SDS amendment, which deals conceptually with this law. It also solves the problem that this law is constitutionally disputed in this part in order to ensure equality before the law. I'm going to tell plastic on the case why I think that's true. This is the case when the tax burden from the owner shifts to the tenant. A tenant or a taxable person has the right under the law, if he cannot pay the tax, to enter a tax debt on that property. If the tenant can do so, then by entering a tax debt into the property of someone else, he intervened in his private property. That's not possible. It's not possible under our Constitution. Second case. If a taxable person, i.e. the lessee who receives social assistance and is a social supporter, is unable to enter tax burdens like all others, then he is subject to different treatments, different provisions and different treatment under this law, which is again inadmissible. They're all the same before the law. Everyone has to have the same opportunities. And the provision we have proposed with the amendment solves this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr Borut Ambrožič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! I will support the proposed amendment by the SDS for similar reasons, as already stated by my colleagues from the SDS party. Above all, because I see a close parallel with those who have non-profit status and who, according to the interpretation of the law, as I understand it, are now facing the fact that they will comparatively – in the past, pay comparatively for the use of building land as tenants, say, €80 – according to the calculations that some who have turned to me as a Member have received EUR 400, which is a significant difference. I believe that, while at the principle level, the law is trying to resolve the real estate situation in the Republic of Slovenia, yet it has certain articles that deserve correction, so I support the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u183	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I think it is right for me to come by for the clearance of the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and to say who is lying here. The President of the government has already said that whoever has nothing will pay nothing. By this law and by this article, you prove that this is not true. Mr Frangež and Mrs Osterman also argued that none of the tenants would pay anything. Unfortunately, with the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are only partially correcting that those who do not own the property would not pay the property tax. Although I regret that we have not decided to delete paragraph 8 completely, because in the first indent of paragraph 8 we are transferring the burden of real estate tax to leasing customers, which means that we are consequently supporting the owners of banks or leasing houses. And leasing houses that will rent their properties will bear the burden of tax on citizens or leasing farmers. And those who carry the service property to rent the tenant will also bear the burden. This is unfair, unconstitutional and illegal. I hope you will really support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u185	Thank you. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. I invite you to report. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u186	As I have already said, support for this amendment is under way. Even if the amendment is not adopted and you believe that you will remedy inappropriate provisions with your amendment, which is written under point 4, this will not be the case, at least in one important part this burden will still be passed on to the tenants. The purpose of this amendment is to try to remedy those most in heaven insinuating inconsistencies in this marriage. What it now says is an administrative award decision, all decisions granting a non-profit flat. This means that, after the current dictatorship that you have confirmed on the committee – that there will be no misunderstanding as to what we are talking about – you are only planning to remedy this provision with your amendment. But now it is true, after what you yourself have confirmed on the committee, that the burden of paying this tax has been passed on to all tenants of non-profit apartments, which is unacceptable and puts on the lie the words of the prime minister expressed in the National Assembly when it was said that those who do not have real estate will not pay anything. However, what cannot be remedied by this amendment is the problem that the obligation to pay the tax, even if this amendment is adopted, remains. Who's going to be the hostage? State, municipalities? There will be more than €10 million following a new tax that is not available today. At the average price of dwellings presented by the Prime Minister in the National Assembly four days ago, this means that each year the country will be or will be. The managers of these apartments – municipalities, city funds, the Republic Fund – paid the country around 150 flats of taxes. Instead of directing this money to strengthen housing, they're going to be paying off bank tycoons at the Factor Bank and Probank, and it's still not going to be enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. What's the trick of this amendment? The largest real estate owner in the Republic of Slovenia is the state housing fund. And in the event of a transfer of rent to tenants, it means that the state housing fund does not have to be paid into the state budget. The second largest fund of the Republic of Slovenia is the Public Housing Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana. According to this law, the municipality of Ljubljana should pay in the state budget after this solution, in one way or another. And by putting the burden on the tenants, you secretly financed both the National Housing Fund and the Housing Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana and other housing funds. You have achieved nothing else with this provision. And if we took a close look at the agreement between the government and the city congregation, we would probably see it in that agreement. In this way, I believe that it is irresponsible, unfair and unfair to transfer burdens from social beneficiaries who are entitled to rent in state apartments, in the homes of urban municipalities or others. That's unfair. I suggest you at least accept our amendment so that you can somehow remedy this matter. It is unacceptable to suggest that, on the one hand, you give allowances to single - parent families, I do not know what families, and, on the other hand, to those families, to put a tax on property that is not theirs. Which isn't theirs! And don't hang that tax on the titler. I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Andrej Chuš has a desire to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. The 2010 Youth Survey, conducted several years ago by the Office for Youth of the Republic of Slovenia, showed alarming data in the area of youth independence. In fact, two thirds of young people in Slovenia live with their parents between the ages of 18 and 34. That is how we are the first or second in the whole of the European Union. If this article is adopted as you propose, you will only make this statistics worse. I support the SDS amendment and please let's do at least something positive for young people, because if not, then I really don't know what anyone here thinks of social. If we do not support the amendment of the SDS Group, which deletes as taxpayers of the property tax on tenants, which will primarily affect young people who become independent, young people will not seek real estate and apartments for rent in Slovenia, but elsewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u191	There is still an interest in explanation of vote, so I invite you to report. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, President. I am joining all those who believe that this article, or the transfer of the tax costs to tenants, is one of the reasons why this law in the Constitutional Court, if not earlier, has fallen. On the radio, I listened to the show about what will happen to homes for older citizens who are owned by the state of Slovenia. And one of the wardens said that this cost would be passed on to the caterers, and they're also tenants. We already know that these caregivers are too high.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u193	Mr. Lah, I'm sorry, but colleagues and colleagues, you're too loud. I'm asking you for peace in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u194	Thank you. One of the managers explained that the cost of this tax would be passed on to the suppliers. We know that caregivers in nursing homes are so high that low - income caregivers cannot pay them and that they are a heavy burden on their children. Now this tax will be added to the care. I don't know if they're wrong or not. I think that this amendment saves this; and like the municipality and the state pay from its facilities, let it also pay from the home of older citizens and from their social housing, not transfer it to the weakest category of people in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u196	Just because an administrator has set up his interpretation of this law doesn't mean it's true. I do not want to be a lawyer to the solutions in this law, but all that we are listening to points to the logic of the thousands of repeated untruths that are becoming the truth and for all the universally accepted fact. In view of the fact that we are aware of the trap in the third indent, an amendment has been tabled under the following order number to make it clear that the housing fund cannot pass the tax obligation to a non-profit tenant of such a housing fund. According to the general logic of this law, the lessee is not liable to pay the tax, unless expressly specified. Your Honor, I ask you politely for this correctness, so that this difficult debate and difficult circumstances in which this tax and other related decisions are taken, however, may be embellished with reality. Otherwise, opposition to this law is just a tool of an improper political struggle, not a real commitment to those interests on whose behalf you like to stand up in this Chamber. I will therefore support the coalition amendment under the following order number and reject the amendment, as proposed by the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I can't imagine what you, who are in the coalition today, would do if such a criminal and harmful marriage came out when we were in the government. Not only would we have 20,000 protestors in front of parliament, but they would probably hang us on the wedges. Comrade Jerovšek spoke earlier about the first marriage of Alenka Bratušek. I'm sure he won't last a year. Both Kirchhoff law or. 1. Kirchhoff's marriage has been valid since 1845 and will continue. If we supported the deletion of the third paragraph of the eighth indent of Article 4, we would do so in order not to transfer both to young and old, transfer via a rental lift. What you say in Positive Slovenia, in the 4th Amendment, is that this applies only to denationalised people, it is clear that everyone who will pass this burden on the property tax on the final user, that is to say on the one who will be in the apartment, that is to say on the tenant. This will additionally burden young and old. If there's nothing wrong with you old people, somehow I understand that you're not young, but it's hard for me to understand because neither old nor DeSUS anymore supports you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u199	Thank you. Procedural? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. In view of the debate that has developed in this amendment, we will request a 45-minute recess in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u201	Thank you. Before deciding 45 minutes of rest for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Before that, I'm asking if anyone else would like to explain their voice? No, no, no. I'm taking a break, so we'll continue at 4:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u202	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Let's get back to work. Since we have suspended our work for consultation in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, I ask whether Mr Tanko wishes to present the agreement in the Group of Members. Mr. Tank, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! As far as possible, we have reviewed the amendments tabled in this Article and have found that, with the third amendment, which is still the last one in the process, we can resolve the preliminary provisions of the law as well. If this process is fully realized as has been said and hinted at by the coalition's parliamentary groups, then the coalition will go forward in the scenario and will only support the coalition amendments. However, I would just like to warn you that when some have received property returned under the Law on the Correction of Wrongs, with this amendment, a new injustice is brought back. They are said to be flattered, and they will be if the tenant who stayed in this apartment doesn't pay for it. It is also a problem because the rights of others in this part of the law are limited in a certain way. In general, it appears that the coalition has missed a great deal of opportunity, because civil society, civil society associations, including political groups that have not been invited to discuss, have offered to participate in the drafting of the law with their comments; also the provisions that we will now decide on are part of this. And we think that because of these provisions that you will adopt and because of what will already remain basically in the law, this will be a good basis for a constitutional review of the law. It is highly likely that individual basic provisions in the Constitutional Court will fall and that the effects of the law will be completely eliminated. This overtaking and forcible adoption of certain decisions does not give rise either to the budget, nor to the coalition, nor to the State of anything good, except that the Constitutional Court will decide that certain injustices will have to be corrected. This law has significantly worse consequences than the so-called ZUJF, which we have adopted, where the Constitutional Court has annulled certain things and made it possible to regulate otherwise. In this law, the consequences of repealing individual provisions of the law will likely have significantly greater implications for the budget and also for those concerned. We suggest you support our amendment. This also opens the article and we will propose further support for some of the other amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u204	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision: we are deciding on the third amendment to Article 4. The proposal is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 4 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 48. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall make a fourth amendment to Article 4. The proposer is a coalition. I'm opening a debate or someone wants to explain their voice? I guess not. We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting on the fourth amendment to Article 4, the proposal is a coalition. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 21. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting amendments to Article 5 into the debate. I am putting forward the first amendment to Article 5 tabled by the coalition. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 shall become irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I will not explain to the vote, but I would like to ask for explanations of the coalition as to the consequences of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u206	Thank you, too. We are now in the decision-making phase, so we can hear from the coalition or from the sent groups if they support it or not. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Bogovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u207	This amendment of the coalition is very interesting. It is an amendment that removes the last and only amendment that we have managed to bring through at a meeting that lasted from 11 a.m. to half four in the morning. With this amendment we wanted to correct and remedy the fundamental error of this law, that this general value of alpha and omega is all in this law and no one can do anything else. We wanted an amendment that was adopted and contained in Article 5, paragraph 2, which reads: 'The tax base cannot be higher than the market value of the taxed property', to prevent people in the country from being unprotected and to pay higher taxes than the righteous. You have decided, not as it was said, to allow this procedure by combining Articles 5 and 14 in the appeal procedure, to provide people with legal certainty, but to make them hostages of Gurs, Durs and the state. I will say nothing more than what I am at this same meeting of the committee – I am fundamentally opposed to the whole set of reasons that have been said several times before, adding in the wrong way 200 million of the crisis tax, in the wrong way we are expected to consolidate the country if we impose new taxes on those who are working. Here you are preventing those to whom these decisions will be issued, even by having legal protection that would not overtax them. I think you're making a very big mistake, because now you're going to confirm your amendment, because you're going to break the amendment that we're going to bring down even though it's probably for those who oppose it, it's better that we don't even file it or fix it. I firmly believe that this is a key error of this law, which, once you have voted on these amendments, citizens and citizens will do unequally before the law. That is why very large sequences will be, and not only the state budget, but also the municipal budgets will have very serious problems next year. I'm sorry you can't hear the arguments, but you respect the argument, as I see, 46 to 49 votes you have right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u208	Thank you. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. Two amendments have been tabled with regard to the tax base. The issue of the tax base is probably one of the most important issues in this law, including in relation to the legal security of taxpayers. Under the basic law, the tax base is a general market value. This is some model calculation based on the Law on Mass Valuation. Following this law, in connection with the complaint — with that article which provides for the possibility or inability to appeal — a complaint on a tax basis is not possible, but only on the elements of how the tax base is established. In other words, the taxpayer will have to appeal to Durs and then to Gurs and find that his assessment is not correct. In other words, if a taxable person wishes to complain on a tax basis, it is necessary to amend the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which means that this law violates legal certainty. This means that, even in the light of the valuations managed by the bankers in relation to the banks, the tax bases are certainly too high, even in the light of what they will assess, for each property it is likely to be three to four times the high tax base. The Bank Claims Management Company announced yesterday that 4 billion claims were to be transferred. In fact, this means that property is behind these claims. It has been estimated and published in the media that the value of these claims is estimated at one billion to one and a half billion. In other words, almost four times less. This means that the taxable person will not be able to individually evaluate the property and individually prove the lower value of the property, that he will pay the tax on a completely unrealistic tax base, and above all excessive tax bases, because this law also saves the fiscus, which is totally wrong. This law should be the source of the municipalities – all over the world – and municipalities should therefore offer the higher quality of services provided to the population or. for residents in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u210	Thank you. I am opening the possibility of applying for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Sasha Kos has the word. [[No, no, ……]] He's quitting. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Too bad my colleague Sasha quit. I will not support the amendment of Positive Slovenia. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Why am I sorry that my colleague gave up? I would really like to see what is wrong with the law if it says: The tax base cannot be higher than the market value of the taxed property. You can't pay taxes anymore, or you can't be more basic than your real estate is worth on the market. What's wrong? Or by Alenka Bratušek: The tax will be paid as much as we need in the budget. We're capable of wasting everything you have. I can't believe it. I'd like to hear from the coalition Members how they explain it. I've never heard such an amendment before. The Minister of Economy is looking at me. Maybe he has a solution. The tax base can also be higher than your property, if you know that there are already about 300,000 euros waiting for you at the Ministry - for you, your company, etc. Please! What are you doing with this law? He's harmful and he's unjust. He is not guilty, I believe, of the economy, of the ownership of our Minister Stepišnik, who has probably profited the most at that time, except perhaps elsewhere. Colleagues and colleagues, this is unconstitutional what you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u212	I see that I need to refresh my warning from the beginning of this consideration of this point when we started by explaining the votes. I really suggest that you explain your vote on the content of the amendment that we are deciding on. Do not trigger the controversy, because at this time it is not possible to get an answer to the controversy. The next word will be Mrs Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment because this amendment puts the words of the President of the Government to a lie. We are in Article 5, and we have already twice caught the President of the Government speaking differently about real estate tax than it is true. First we found out that she said that whoever had nothing would not pay that tax. It will if the tenant's in a social apartment. And secondly, she said that this tax is paid from the value of the property. Don't hold it. This tax is not paid from the value of the property, but is paid by some general estimated value prepared by Gurs on the basis of his methodology. However, the problem is that if the taxable person considers that it is not properly assessed and found, he will not be able to complain and prove his real estate market value. That's the biggest problem. The Committee on Finance developed a broad and professionally supported debate, and this is probably also the reason why the coalition supported this amendment at the time. This time, he deletes it with his amendment. The deletion of this provision provides that the taxable person himself cannot affect the fact that the value of his property is correctly and accurately assessed is legally unsustainable. There are still many problems related to the complaint, but the key to this law lies in an article setting out the tax base and the possibility that someone might also influence this tax base.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u214	Thank you. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. I won't support this amendment either. The law is, otherwise, attracted to the hair if you say so yourself. The criteria are such that measurements, valuations do not even withstand a healthy assessment. Beautiful villas are worth 50,000 euros and apartments 150 years old in the middle of the city in the old house are worth 400 000 euros. There are cases like this as many as you want. In doing so, it should be noted that this law is in grave violation of certain constitutional principles. One of the first is the principle of the right to legal protection, to a remedy and later to judicial protection. In this case, someone who has apparently violated his right has no way of actually protecting his right. It is subject to some obligation on the basis of some imaginary generic values, and it cannot then influence it to prove that the assessment is criminal and that it interferes with its interests. This will certainly be the subject of a constitutional judgment, and I firmly believe that such provisions in this law will not go beyond the constitutional judgment, which means that you are pre-adopting a law with the awareness that it is also unconstitutional. Guilty and unconstitutional at the same time. And because of this your amendment, with which at least one of the solutions that has been corrected, you re-enter in the second stage of treatment in the wrong way in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. I'll tell you why. When we adopted the Deleted Law in the previous term, it was said from several government representatives at the time that no compensation could be made on the basis of this law. Absolutely not. When we adopted the Law on Mass Valuation, the government said that this would not be a basis for taxes. And what happened? Now this is the basis, this law is the only saving estimate of value you can't even complain about. Why do we have sworn appreciaters, why are the valuations everywhere, but you can't argue here about how this mass evaluation of work is done? From two years ago, in Gurs, all purchase contracts are collected and the value of adjacent properties or properties in the vicinity of which they were sold are reviewed. And on the basis of this, then generally, these values spread to everyone nearby, even if they were speculative purchases. I had a chance myself when one of the students came to ask about a house that had been sold in the village. I told him no house sold out. He said, "Yes, on this one and this number." And he went to take pictures of the house. Why? This house was sold a year ago, the same apartment as I know is still in there because a speculative purchase was made. And that's the basis for that evaluation. It can't be, gentlemen, it can't be! That is why we will not support this amendment, and this is also one of the reasons why the Constitutional Court is likely to decide on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u218	Thank you. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u219	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will not support this coalition proposal alone, but it is to be imagined. Given the extremely bad and weak law, I estimate that it is one of the most important articles of this law, because there is probably no place anywhere in the world that you, as the owner, will not be able to object to the appreciation itself. And I think that the coalition is doing itself a bear service with this amendment, because by doing this you are absolutely increasing the possibility that the Constitutional Court will reject this law. And I think this will cause enormous financial implications for the budget and the country. It is important that anyone who decides or determines that something is wrong with appreciation raises an objection. We know that there are valuation methods, that this is the responsibility of the evaluators and that an appeal can be made. You're the one who's making it impossible. And I am sure that this will be an essential reason in the event that the matter is to be heard by the Constitutional Court, this case will fall. Those who are members of the Coalition's Finance Committee could be so correct as most tax experts have also advocated the SDS and SLS amendments – that it is necessary to allow the owner to object or appeal. And you're doing yourself a bear service.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u220	Thank you. Since there is still a great interest in explanation of vote, I invite you to report. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. I can't support this amendment of the SD myself. I hope that the majority will support the SDS amendment. It's not just that. Today we were talking about law-abiding people. Look, legal vigilance must also be enabled by a legal remedy. The legal remedy is that someone with some methodology can determine the basis. This law has two wrong assumptions. Not only is the purpose wrong, but the tax base as such cannot be market or general market value.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u222	I suggest you calm down in the hall, for the word can only be spoken by a speaker. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u223	Thank you very much. In this sense, we could talk more about the concept of un generalised market value or some indicative values when these properties were recorded by different students in Slovenia and the then Borut Pahor's government made it clear that this would not be the basis for a future real estate tax. Look, it's like that on broken foundations. However, if you are destroying the basis of this amendment in a constitutional democracy where the legal vigilance of citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens is, then I believe that the law is already fundamentally disputed in Article 5. We must make it possible for people to have a legal remedy with regard to this catastrophic valuation of property. And the legal remedy is that these decisions can challenge the possibility of having a valuer who will actually assess the real estate, some market value of this property. I therefore call for you to support the next vote of the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment because it is normal because it is human and because it also has a constitutional basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I certainly will not support this amendment. I will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, for the following reason already stated by my fellow Members and colleagues. There's gonna be a breach of legal certainty here. After what was heard or written here, and after that amendment, it is true. Believe me, this law will also cause him to complain to the Constitutional Court, which will certainly conclude that this law is unconstitutional or some of the solutions in this law. And the consequences that will come are clear. I hope that everyone sitting in Parliament who adopts this legislation is aware of what this will mean for the situation in our country. I will try to simplify this by telling Slovenian people that they will understand what we are talking about. If Durs rated my house, my house, or my neighbor's house, for 130 thousand euros, I'm going to have to pay the country a tax of 130 thousand euros. And I will have no choice but to complain about this decision, except for a few things, if my real estate is in fact only 100 000 euros. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think it's in this Slovenia that I wouldn't understand these farmers' logics that I've just been talking about. I've made it simple that every single person in this country can understand that. Dear Coalition Members, you don't understand. I don't understand that. Therefore, I ask you to support our amendment and reject yours, because this will protect the way of the law, even a step further.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. The values of justice and legal certainty are somehow not the values of this coalition, certainly not. We have a significant case today. In May, the government coalition or the President of the Government, the Justice Minister and the President of the Court signed a commitment to be resolved in three months at the second stage of judicial proceedings. Today, however, they are very much protesting when someone called for this to be respected in Slovenia. In the same way, you are in breach of all commitments, even if you are interfering with a matter that is constitutionally guaranteed, even if you know that this will have to be rejected by the Constitutional Court. I am surprised that there is no person among the 50 members of the coalition who would be disturbed by this to take a legal remedy with which those who are very unjustly taxed may complain. I said before, justice is not a value to be defended, but injustice and injustice are clearly one of the fundamental values of this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u228	Thank you. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The solution adopted by the Committee on Finance is, in my opinion, just and correct. Many tax doses take into account some form of value, some general value, some estimated value. However, I do not know of any case that it would not be possible if the affected party disagreed with the value, otherwise to prove any other value. And in that sense, the point of this debate is already a debate where I have not been, but this solution, which is certainly a good one in the second paragraph. Since you are proposing deleting the second paragraph, it is imperative that a solution be adopted that will bring this possibility back. I just can't imagine what will happen if a constitutional assessment of what the Constitutional Court will say is required. However, it will be interesting to find this decision to prevent proof of a different value of real estate than one established by law. As it is said, in many cases it is done this way. I am confident that the Constitutional Court will also say so if you do not accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u230	Thank you, too. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u231	Thank you, President. In my opinion, this is the basis or essence of the law. As the article states: The tax base is the general market value of real estate established by the rules on the mass valuation of real estate. And so on. In short, I'm reading records. I think the purpose of the law was good, but practice has shown many examples in practice that those who lied will obviously be rewarded with this law; those who were fair in mass recording of property will pay a higher tax than those who lied. I do not understand the amendment of the coalition, which speaks of the fact that the tax base cannot be higher than the market value of the property tax, because this means that those who lied can continue to enjoy their lie joyfully; those who were good will pay. I think that the problem of this law as well as this article is the distinction in practice between general and actual market value. Why? I've been informed in recent weeks by certain people how it can be that someone who is next door to someone who has a year old house, 500 square meters, and I don't know what all he's estimated at a million, but Gurs has shown him that the price of his property is almost ten times lower. Interestingly, these are very interesting people who are close to the people of this coalition, or even their candidates. This is the basis of this law, the records, and as long as the records are unregulated, this article and this law are constitutionally disputed. Therefore, I cannot support the amendment of the coalition, which gives those who have abused this institution of mass property registration an additional bonus. On the other hand, he rewards the good ones. Therefore, I propose that you accept the SDS amendment and the lady, as in all other procedures, here is also the possibility of a second-degree body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u232	Thank you, too. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. Some say that the tax is fairer and that it will be more just to define what people have to pay from their properties, but the basis for a fair tax is proper appreciation. We read about mistakes every day in the media. We have twins where one is rated to one number, the other to a lower value. We even had cases, for example Mr Klemenčič, when his real estate was not even included in Gurs' records, I suppose it is now, but it is probably a whole bunch of such cases. Every day we can find out about a new case in the newspaper, especially with some famous people, lawyers, judges, and so forth. We can also observe videos of their villas, which are rated very low. It is normal for people to resent this and to say in advance that the tax will not be fair because the property in the records is not basically fair-valued. Since they had apparently found themselves in the preparation of the real estate tax that a whole bunch of things had been misjudged, they had changed their values in Gurs before the time, somewhere down, somewhere left unchanged. This raises even more doubts about the correctness of the records or the valuations in Gurs. That is why I support the amendment proposed in the SDS to obtain the assessments based on the assessments of the approved asset value assessors, so I will vote against your amendment and support ours.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u234	Thank you. Mrs. Alexander Osterman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll support the coalition's amendment myself. The news in the Real Estate Tax Act is that a taxable person can be either. the real estate holder complains of a tax decision if he considers that the tax decision is incomplete, that it does not contain incorrect data on the real estate. He will appeal to Dursa's decision in writing. Durs will submit a written complaint to Gurs and will re-appreciate with the geodetic inspector on the ground. I'll support the coalition's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u236	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which guarantees a just solution, and on this basis also an amendment which provides that a taxable person may also complain on a tax basis, even though the taxable person can already appeal through the Law on the Tax Procedure to any decision of Dursa. There's no news here. The news is that this law prevents a complaint on a tax basis, which can also mean in the context of these actions, even at these rates and in such a way of calculating the tax, an infringement on property rights, which is Article 33 of the Constitution. This is not a protected private property of taxpayers, which is a constitutional category. I support that the taxable person has the opportunity to demonstrate by his own appreciation in the appeal procedure that the tax base is wrong. I think that this is the fundamental fundamental right of taxpayers based on human rights. However, since there are a number of costs involved, what costs are there for the law to enter into force? Information costs – half a million euros; software costs to the geodetic administration – 600 000 euros and support costs for the tax assessment and implementation of complaints – a million and a half, plus media support costs for this tax amounting to 100,000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the country will spend 2.7 million euros on this tax, and the tax will not guarantee fundamental human rights for citizens and citizens of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. I will not support the amendment, but it is interesting how citizens view all this debate. You've all received a letter from Mrs. Ana Žibert from Domžal. Let me at least read a few lines. I hold in my hands an appreciation for my 45-year-old house and a 13-year-old younger attitude towards the house, both at 170 meters, estimated at 396 thousand euros. When I look at the appreciation of my house and compare it with the valuations of the so-called untouchable, the church bells ring in my head, just like Mr Möderndorfer. Let me give you a few examples. To me, the space closest case is Mr Draganje. Mr. Dragonja method has a house in Trzin, measuring 209 square metres, estimated at 255,000 euros. I took this case because of the proximity of Trzin and Domjala. Let's go to the property a little bit wider. Mr Jankovic's house in Golovec, 353 square metres, i.e. two of my houses, is estimated at only 452 thousand euros. According to my logic, his house should be rated at least EUR 800,000. Look, this is what the citizens are alerting us to. They warn us that they do not have the opportunity to complain that they do not have the opportunity to appreciate, so your proposed amendment is certainly not a solution. However, it is a solution to the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we need to give the opportunity to appeal and also to change the tax base. The fact is, people are looking at us, the fact is, in some ways, you don't have an answer to our amendments. With this property tax, you'll get those who barely survive from month to month. But they won't know until they get the ticket. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u240	Thank you. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. I invite you to report. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u241	Let me say that I cannot support the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia and other coalition parties. I find it discriminatory that real estate will be assessed or taxed according to an estimate or value of real estate, such as Gurs’s records. My colleague Robert made it clear before me how unfair this assessment of real estate is. Here are some others, such as one residential weekend in the vicinity of Žalac or Celje, estimated at EUR 68 000, while on the other hand we have an estimate of EUR 58 000 on the estate of the judge from Slovenj Gradac. Then tell me that this amendment of yours is the one that will eliminate discrimination and is just and in accordance with the law. No, you make big differences, you defend those who are rich, while on the other hand you take today with all the amendments and laws that we have already adopted, those who have nothing to fight every day with whether they survive or will not survive. Let me mention just one more example of this, Mr Frangež said on Channel A yesterday that you were trying to find a solution to the property of humanitarian organisations. I hope this is how you resolve this situation in the hall today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u242	Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u243	President, we are now listening to explanations of vote, but I think you agree with me that this is by no means similar to explanations. For example, only two of my predecessors explained yesterday's debate, some of the situation in this Chamber, read letters, and they do not define the amendment and the proposal, which is the essence of everything. President, I think it's right to warn you, or we'll be watching this demonstration late in the night, but it's only right that we stick to the Rules of Procedure. In principle, I will also survive what you are talking about, just the Rules of Procedure, please, this is the basic one that we must respect in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u244	Thank you. My view on these explanations is that the vast majority have clearly defined themselves and have also tried to argue why an individual should vote. It may have happened once or twice that someone forgot to tell you how he was going to vote, but I think it's still kind of manageable if I can call it that. However, it is really necessary to define itself in explanation of vote and not to politicise. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor. Procedurally has Mr. Puksic. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u245	Thank you very much. I am procedurally proposing that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, those who make a procedural proposal should say, as you have already said, Mr President, many times, a procedural proposal at the outset. I have not heard this procedural proposal before, so I will now start with my procedural proposal. My procedural proposal is that Mr Möderndorfer probably wanted to propose procedurally that the opposition in the National Assembly be abolished if I understood it correctly. Therefore, in his procedural proposal, Mr Möderndorfer should make a statement of his procedural proposal, not take such an improper advantage of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr. Pukšič, you have now abused the instrument or. an option in the Rules of Procedure. Mr Möderndorfer presented a procedural proposal to respect the Rules of Procedure and to define anyone who would explain the vote whether he would vote in favour or against. That's how I understood him. So there is no derogation from what the Rules of Procedure allow. Now I think that Mr Joseph Horvat can get the floor to explain his voice. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u247	Thank you very much, President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will explain my vote to the second amendment of the SDS colleagues to Article 5, because if the coalition is still so granically monolithic that it will vote on its amendment, then there will be no way to talk about the SDS amendment that I support. It follows from here that I will go against the amendment of the coalition. Repetitio mother studiorum est – repetition is the mother of learning, so I repeat the argument from yesterday, which I read from the famous Slovenian lawyer Eric Kerševan – you know, the opposition also reads – As the valuation of property will be the basis for a new tax, it is necessary to provide every taxpayer with an effective legal remedy to enforce the complaint if he considers that his property is wrong. I would like to point out that the draft law provides that only the wrong data, rather than the estimated value, will make it possible to appeal. The law also does not provide for someone to contest the valuation of the property value with a judge, and this is controversial, ladies and gentlemen. It could turn out to be a problem. Another problem is this, according to lawyer Kersevan, that the procedure of appeal and enforcement of legal protection is carried out in a manner that does not deter enforcement in accordance with the law. A constitutional assessment might also raise the question of when tax at its own level becomes inadmissible. And if I'm talking about constitutional judgment, let me tell you, colleagues and colleagues, about your consideration before you vote on your amendment that the constitutional review of this law is already in writing. At least squeeze the quorum at this time of your amendment. I'll support the SDS amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u248	Thank you. We are moving on to the continuation of the explanation of vote. I invite you to report. The word has Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u249	Thank you very much. We're in the middle of a double amendment, the one proposed by the coalition, and our amendment. The amendments are linked, and I will support our amendment, not our coalition amendment. There are many reasons for this. Any media site you open today or look at any newspaper, you find examples of miscalculations of property that are supposed to be the basis for a tax assessment. In doing so, it is interesting to insist that the tax should be paid from a certain value that someone has determined. This someone could have made a big mistake, someone could have used it, I don't know what. Let's say I have this case with me where they brought the Internet into my house every year because they brought water in and brought it in, and I don't know what else it is, and it's not even there. And that I won't be the case. For the citizens to know, we advocate that in such cases an individual may complain and prove that the Tax Administration has simply made a mistake and that this is not a real situation. And you're advocating an amendment or something. a solution by which this is not possible. This is not logical, I think the lawyers have explained this, but we will probably have to wait for the Constitutional Court to make a final decision on this matter. In short, my support goes to the SDS amendment and not to the coalition amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u250	Thank you. The word has Mr. Daniel Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u251	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will support our amendment myself, because it still provides a solution that will allow the value of the property to be adjusted in case it is judged to be wrong. I must say that the Committee on Finance has adopted a similar solution at its meeting, and I am surprised that the coalition is constantly changing its solutions. Even so, sometimes it would be wise to listen to the opposition's arguments. However, you have decided on the committee and in writing that the tax base cannot be higher than the market value of the taxed property. At the plenary session, you are now deleting this. We also want to incorporate that the approved real estate value assesser is that pensioner or that document that can correct the value of the real estate and thus avoid the different treatment of individual real estates. Yesterday, in the debate under this article, I stressed that we are not against introducing some kind of real estate tax, as we are now introducing it, but should concentrate on squares only in the first phase, rather than on lists of real estate that have in certain cases been incorrect, especially where censusers were unable to reach individual objects where surveys were not carried out and so on. This puts citizens in an unequal position. If we decided in the first phase only on the basis of the basic data of the square, the year of the object, there would be no problems that we now have in dealing with. And in the next phase, it would be possible to value real estates through censuses and detailed [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] surveys achieved some correct values. [[…]] So once again, I support our amendment, but I cannot support these changes that you bring to the table from day to day.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u252	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. Apparently, there are only two institutions in this country that have no complaints. This is KPK and Gurs. It is obvious, and in all the data we have had available, and also in the documents coming through the media, the fundamental problem is that they are not misled by real estate under the right data. It is said that the base does not match the square of objects. And so we have a rubble that is worth more than modern, but in a baroque style made by a fairy. The neighbors are almost in the same area, in the same zone, and that rubble is worth more than a baroquely equipped villa. That's what we're trying to tell you. And unfortunately, there is no possibility in these procedures that anyone, whatever, would challenge, despite the apparent differences and errors found or the irregularities that have occurred in these evaluation procedures. Multiple evaluation is typically a planning act, a planning document, characteristic of some form of government. Our amendment and I propose that we give this a market dimension if we have a market economy. And apparently the coalition opposes it. And so the insistence on a document that is not complained of is characteristic of autocratic regimes. There is no complaint in the proceedings, not in the courts, not in any way that anyone decides, so remains and so is. Therefore, I suggest you support our amendment and in the third reading, you can further improve our amendment, but by then you can study the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u255	Your Honor! I will not support the amendment of the government coalition, but I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which gives the party the opportunity to appeal. When I look at the actual situation as it is in practice in the country, I estimate that about 50% of our citizens, the owners of property, have not looked more closely or paid attention to the value of their property. A very large proportion will take this seriously when they get home the billboards. The anomaly in the valuation of these properties is extremely large, the fluctuations are huge, unfair, unfair, no common denominators. It's a very bad foundation. Now imagine that an injured citizen who has an unfairly assessed property does not have the possibility of a complaint. I think we have taken away his basic civil right, but this right is for every citizen to have certain injustices, mistakes, corrections made, so I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u257	I take note of all that Mr Tanko has said a little while ago, and I am sure that his colleague in the parliamentary group Mr Šircelj will strongly object to his interpretation. Andrej Šircelj said on 21 April 2006, when he represented the Law on Mass Valuation as State Secretary in the National Assembly: "Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, allow me to briefly present the proposal for the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which was based on a development project that took several years to achieve a more effective system in this area, and that, of course, this system can be used for various purposes. These purposes are certainly tax purposes." Ladies and gentlemen, if you will recall my discussions on the Committee on Finance, you will recall that I have been very fond of finding protectors that will also allow property owners to correct the values found in the system of mass valuations through the system of individual valuations. In recent days, we have dealt with this issue a great deal and we wanted to be free of charge, with the will to follow the definition of the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, but also with alternative solutions has been shown in Article 14 in order to fully undermine the concept of the law. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the government's commitment to open the procedure and prepare for the correction of the Law on Mass Valuation, where the anomalies to which there is evidence will be appropriate adjustments in the law, where we have to enforce these solutions and where they are being tried, so I will vote in favour of our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u258	Thank you. I'm opening up the possibility of applying for an explanation of vote because I can see that you're more interested. Mr. Franz Bogovich is the only one reported. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u259	Since we have adopted this law in a strange way, it will obviously take a little longer today. In the meantime, we have heard Mr Shirtzl's quotations. I am sure that today we will also hear from Mr John Sponik because he started to evaluate, and that everything that is really wrong is on this side. I would like to make it clear that there is nothing I can do to support the first amendment. I am afraid that to the second amendment – prepared by colleagues from the SDS, which would only complement this evaluation by adding that the sworn valuers are the ones who do it – we will not come at all. For these conceptual reasons that have been mentioned, here has already been well-intentioned, the constitutional category of equality before the law is above all your concepts, either the concept of how you will fill the budget hole, or the concept of how you will burden the craftsmen, or the concept of how you will burden the disproportionate farmers, and all the other irregularities in this law. I think we have a test at this point through the next two amendments. Remember what I'm about to say. 200 million less will have congregations for this, and the state will have nothing because you simply insist and do not want to try and find constitutional solutions. This solution, which according to your concept, I firmly believe that the Constitutional Court will say that it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At this amendment, this law will fall or stand.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u260	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u261	Thank you very much. I will not support the amendment of the coalition. I hope it will not be accepted, and in such a case, I will support our amendment. Mr Frangež, the Real Estate Tax Act was not adopted in 2006, and is being adopted today. Why was it not accepted in 2010 when you had already written, here I have this material, on July 15, 2010, signed Minister Križanič. You won't believe it, Secretary of State Matthew Vraničar, who is sitting here today in the bench. Why didn't he take it then? Ask yourself. Today this law is being passed, and today it is necessary to settle this basis. If these findings are correct and, as we find, are that these values are not correct and can allow great anomalies between individual debtors, it is necessary to incorporate into the law safeguards that will allow the debtors to have legal protection in such a case. In normal time, according to normal procedure, which will not make it difficult to enforce this law, but these guardians will allow the law to be at least to some extent just. I have already said in previous amendments that it is impossible to do so because the law is completely unjust, from the first to the last article. Such an amendment, regardless of the fact that we even have a pleia of amendments to these few articles, is impossible to correct. But at least in those parts where it can be done, it would be responsible for the coalition to do so. Therefore, support those amendments that are reasonable and that enable them to remedy bad solutions, I don't know. What's wrong with that? This law is adopted today or possibly tomorrow. It was not adopted in 2006 and not in 2010, when the Social Democrats were in power.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u262	Thank you. The explanation for the vote is mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u263	Your Honor! I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party because it incorporates a protector, one option of a fair assessment if the property owner does not agree with the general market value, which could also be completely past the actual situation and introduce one injustice. There is no doubt that mass valuation and property censuses were also intended as a result of the taxation of real estates, which today hides from it, is indeed naive. From the time we participated in the census, because they came to me, we knew why it was happening. However, the concepts of property taxation were still completely different under the Pahor government, significantly more equitable, and everyone assumed that this was the income of local communities. Only today, when this law is written just to pursue fiscal goals, how to fill the budget, no matter how much you tear out of the pockets of Slovenian taxpayers and those owners who have been stingingly building their properties, will these anomalies only occur today. Nor do you want to install these fuses so that an individual can challenge an assessment that is obviously wrong and will have to pay a tax on the basis of an assessment that someone has invented and does not reflect the actual value. I think that this is an intervention into the fundamental right of the citizen to legal certainty and to appeal. That is why I think it is unnecessary and inappropriate to refer to anyone, because today the concept of real estate tax is different than it ever was. It's about the machine, the money, the budget, covering all kinds of nonsense that you're still funding through the budget, which we're going to discuss next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u264	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We are voting on the first amendment to Article 5, the proposal is a coalition. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 34. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 6. We will first decide on the amendment under point 1, the drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. If the amendment is adopted under this point, the amendments under points 2, 3 and 4 shall become irrelevant. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u265	Thank you very much, President. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which substantially reduces the rates of real estate tax, especially because this tax is not based on its role as a tax that would, in the first place, have a greater fiscal effect, but is a tax to ensure greater quality of services by the local community. In other words, this means that the government has planned a misrepresentation of this tax because the financial impact of this tax will be twice as high as that of real estate taxation throughout the current legislation. Also, the fact that the government is speaking as an argument that this is supposed to be because fiscal stabilisation is ensured is in fact not true. The government can provide fiscal stabilisation in the same way as promised by the European Commission – but it has promised that two thirds of fiscal consolidation will ensure that it reduces expenditure; and one third by increasing revenue. But here it works the other way around, and this is why Slovenian taxpayers will pay twice as much as three times the amount of tax, while real income will be reduced, as we have already found today. As a result, rates are certainly not acceptable to those who create the most. Here I mean mainly farmers, small entrepreneurs, independent entrepreneurs, small businesses, and also those who use their value to create some value. As a result, the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes lower rates and these lower rates also justify that municipalities may receive money from other sources, including by deciding to increase their rates or other sources, for example from income or from any other source. Since Mr Frangež often mentions me in connection with this tax and to somehow welcome his complex, I can tell him that I have been in various functions, working in different governments, perhaps you can look at which professional and scientific articles I have written. I want him to be able to do this once, both in education and in the field of expertise, and that he can quote me again and again, because I wrote a lot, over 60 jobs. Mr. Frangez, please, your life is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u266	Thank you. A slightly expanded view of SDS. I'm asking if anyone else would like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Gradually, Mrs. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u267	Thank you, President. The procedural question concerns the exercise of an explanation of vote. I understand that in your explanations you have allowed relatively arbitrary expansion over what is an explanation of vote. But I think he's a magician now. The spread went so far as to make no comment. For he stumbled on some things that my colleague Matevž Frangež did not connect and do not associate with the professional and scientific activities of an individual Member, but quoted part of the magnetogram when Mr Shircel was a political official. I ask you to continue, if you are already allowing an extension of your explanations of vote, at least ensure a respectful attitude towards Members and Members and do not allow them here to be denied credibility in explaining their views by comparing them with their own person. I know what it's like and what it's called, but I'm gonna shut up at this stage. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to use your explanation of vote as an explanation of vote rather than an account of persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u268	Thank you. I must say that my warning, in this sense, that this was a very broad explanation for the vote of the Group of Members, I do not agree with this explanation. My assessment was that, despite everything about personal evaluations, they were not offensive, but somehow in terms of continuing a successful career. At this point, I cannot agree with you. I am sure, once again, that most of the explanations at today's meeting, which is extremely long, have been very correct. I suggest that this goes on as well. This was also the procedural proposal of the Magi. Majde Potrat. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Bogovic will explain the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u269	Thank you very much. There are five amendments to Article 6. We're at the first amendment. The first three amendments are amendments concerning rates of taxation. The key purpose and purpose of those who proposed these rates was to illustrate the wrong concept by these proposals in order to obtain EUR 400 million out of the real estate law. The mistake is that half of this money remains with the state, and in particular that this enormous leap from the current poor 200 million tax collection from all the four taxes that we are abolishing today will be so great that it will at the moment cause a very large number of headaches and problems. Unfortunately, just as quickly as this law is passed — following an emergency procedure, when these simulations simply come through a time when calculations are also made quickly in the National Assembly, it seems that these numbers have different targets. After what State Secretary Vraničar said, the first amendment would have an inflow of between 80 million and 90 million, much less than in the budget of the municipalities now raised. However, it gives key messages that as high as they are now, they cannot be implemented. In those days, in many of the debates organised by the various signatories to the petition, we talked most with the craftsmen. Business activities are becoming a major problem for this type of activity. If we have known taxation so far, it has been substantially lower than industrial facilities, than facilities where business activities such as trade centres are carried out – there are very large jumps in this tax. If we want to upgrade this law even more, and obviously it is not good will, we should probably do what we did in our amendment in order to separate the shopping centres. A major problem is also for tourism activities, where there will be much greater burdens again. The key message of these amendments to Article 6 is also that agricultural land – which has so far been considered a new category of taxation, which none of these taxes we have mentioned, which we have abolished, has so far been exempt from this area. For the land tax already applies in this area today, this is the cadastral income. So much for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u270	Thank you. There is no longer any interest in explaining the vote on behalf of the groups of Members, so we are moving on to an explanation of vote on our own behalf. I'd like to invite you to report because several hands have been raised. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! So that my fellow Members will not be completely exhausted, let me explain my own vote in this round, which is linked to Article 6 – the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I do not support the Real Estate Tax Act itself, prepared by the government of Alenka Bratušek, but I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 6 which reduces tax rates, as envisioned by the government of Alenka Bratušek in this law. It is a fact, and it is not only us in the opposition, but we are reminded of it by both entrepreneurs and mayors, but it is also possible that every day each of us has met at least one individual who said that this is already too much what the government of Alenka Bratušek is doing. Tax rates are too high. Therefore, our amendment allows these tax rates to be reduced for both business and industrial property and, above all, for land. Civil initiative, which is not negligible, has so far gathered approximately — with my colleague Prevac before — 70,000 signatures of those who are against this Property Tax Act. This should be an alarm and a clear indicator to the coalition, and in particular to the President of the Government, Mrs Alenka Bratušek, in order to calm the horses down and once again think whether this is really the smartest and best solution proposed for citizens and citizens. The fact is, the government of Alenka Bratusek does almost nothing but raise taxes. And by accepting this property tax, we will only achieve that those who are already living so badly will live even worse. And the government of Alenka Bratusek is doing nothing but overthrowing the social state by such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u272	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Matei Pučnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u273	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I, too, will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 6 of this Act, as my colleagues have already said, foresees lower tax rates. I believe that the tax rates, when now provided for in this law, are absolutely too high, are putting too much pressure on our economy, especially small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. They overburden our congregations, our farmers, and every citizen and citizen of our republic who has any real estate. And these amounts for the new tax will be higher than we people have previously paid compensation for the use of building land. For residential areas, there will also be two to three times more; especially high amounts will be paid after the new tax by craftsmen and entrepreneurs, for whom I have data to increase some by five times, so they will pay five times the amount they have paid so far. We also need to take the recommendations seriously. Evaluations of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which predicts that these entrepreneurs and craftsmen will also have to close their businesses to a large extent. If they are at least 10 to 15%, this is alarming data, because this means they will forgive, this also means that unemployment will increase. But worst of all – I think it would be the worst – to move our companies abroad because the country is putting too much burden on them here. As I said, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u274	Thank you. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. I myself, as my predecessors, will support the amendment of the SDS Group. Why? Because this amendment is an important attempt to relieve agriculture and the economy. We want to lower tax rates for economic and agricultural properties and land. Tell me who will hire so many young unemployed if not the economy. And who will preserve the Slovenian countryside if not the young? What you're doing with this tax is nationalising the property and if we take the lease to support the centralisation of the country, then we can logically conclude that you want central planning. And at the time of the proletariat, it was like living in the countryside with a punishment, and I kind of feel there's a similar feeling today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u277	Dear President! I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which discusses the reduction of tax bases. The fact is that the tax bases proposed in the law are essentially too high and affect all spheres of our people. I have a magazine in front of me that says, "Petia craftsmen and entrepreneurs. The petition stated, inter alia, that the competitiveness of the small economy is declining and the government is increasingly burdening it." I would also like to quote you from the sentence in the Red Cross document, which says, "Why should there be lower tax rates? Today’s times of crisis are putting us in an increasingly difficult position. On the one hand, there is increasing funding from all sources of funding and, on the other hand, deepening the social pressures of people. In Slovenia, the number of recipients of material aid in the form of food products of the Red Cross of Slovenia has increased by more than 44 000 people since the beginning of the recession since 2012. In 2012, the Red Cross of Slovenia helped 150 thousand 186 socially disadvantaged individuals with food. From the beginning of the year until the end of October 2013, the Red Cross of Slovenia has distributed 240 thousand tons of food." Ladies and gentlemen, does it even make sense for us to continue the debate on the real estate tax law, which additionally and in every way possible burdens everything and everyone! Isn't the information I've just mentioned enough? People warn you and ask you, pray, do not do this and do not become the final gravediggers of the Slovenian people, my people and our people! Please don't go this way. I will therefore support the proposal proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party to lower tax rates.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u278	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. Don't you? Not yet! Okay. We're moving on to voice-explanatory applications. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u279	Your Honor! I myself will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which reduces the tax rate. I would say that the proposaler did not follow the principle of a reasonable limit, because the objective is only to fill the budget, but there is no view of citizens, there is no view of the economy and there is no view of the municipalities that own a lot of real estate. However, I would point out something that has not yet been exposed to tax. In the valuation of real estates, I'm going to give you an example of how everyone paid for construction materials, let's say today at 22% VAT rate. 9.5% of the tax shall be paid for the service. The valuation of real estate in gross value also includes this amount of already paid taxes already paid by the owner of the property. This is said, in the taxation of property, because it is the gross value of it, we also pay the tax on the already paid tax. The property tax also covers the tax on property. In doing so, I would like to point out once again the reasonable limit. And with this proposal, where we are significantly lowering the tax rate, at least the tax paid twice is preferred not to say so. I ask for a reasonable limit, because on average real estate is being auctioned and taxed twice or three times. This is no longer a reasonable limit.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u280	Thank you. The next one has the word, Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u281	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support the amendment. The tax bases are too high. Let's be honest, we have already discussed property tax in the 2004-2008 mandate, but at the time we talked about property tax as a tax on luxury, i.e. on second, third, fourth apartment, on wally plots, on luxury, but not on average. The Slovenian citizens who are looking at us today are convinced that they are not aware of the dimension of this problem, which will hit them next June. The following year, in June, everyone will be given a position for each property they own, and this position will be on average high if we look at even Slovenia between 200 and 300 euros. This bill will have to be paid in a maximum of three instalments. And now imagine people who live on the edge, people who get a bad pension or a bad salary when they can only afford to buy cheap food after paying their bills. And you will burden them that June, instead of affording yourself some summer trip, will raise money to pay for that property — the first real estate, the basic living unit. It's a shame, it's unacceptable. At least listen to our amendment, which reduces tax rates, which in some way would at least make this law more fair. Imagine these people in what kind of trouble they'll be in. Unfortunately, these people are still not aware of what lies ahead. It's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr. Stephen Tisell has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u283	Thank you for your word. All present and welcome. I also support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which reduces the tax rates in all the categories listed here. If we were to lower these tax rates, people would somehow pay about what we're paying now. Because there's going to be a lot more to pay for two to three times as much as the same properties are being paid for now. There is a wide range of those who will pay, especially with regard to property or property. the infrastructure of the Red Cross and other humanitarian organisations, so that such a low tax rate would not amount to as much a burden as this enormous leap as it is now in the proposal. The data showed that so far some 180 million tax has been collected from this title. It was said that at least half of the properties were not registered in the real estate inventory. From this title, if we were to pay for all properties now, we would somehow collect between 180 and 360 million, so that something is hidden in the back, there is probably a reserve to count on them to collect more, for not all will be able to pay because they will not be able to get a decent sum in any case. Many who are on the verge of survival will not be able to pay this tax, we have heard much about it. However, if these rates were lower, I am sure that most people would pay more easily and that more would be collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u284	Thank you, too. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u285	I am also in favour of the amendment, which amends the tax rates in Article 6, so that the burden on the debtors is roughly the same as the one received today after existing taxes – compensation for the tax on property and contribution to forest roads. Unfortunately, after all the debates so far, we have not heard where the concept of these degrees comes from. What was it that led the legislator to set a rate of 0.15, industrial 0.75 and energy 0.40 for residential housing and agricultural land? What was the basis for determining the different rates of real estate taxation, we did not get this answer. This answer is even more important because I previously quoted you from the law that was in the government procedure in 2010, when the government was led by the Social Democrats, where the rate in this law was interesting in the same article, in Article 6, even that law had a degree in Article 6 – set at 003%, it is five times lower than today. Five times lower than today! Under that provision, it was a local tax and would be prescribed by municipalities and in the first year and in the following year, it would be administered on the basis of 80% of the general market value. What has happened in 3 years with the policy of Social Democrats to completely diametrically change their position on property taxation within 3 years. Only one reason is possible, namely that this tax does not have anything to do with the purpose for which it is to be collected, but is intended exclusively for the filling of the budget register, of a deficit which will unfortunately not be sufficient. These 200 million euros, even though this is a huge number, will not save anything for people and the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Chernač, you must be aware that you cannot get an answer to your question, so I must remind you that you have gone over the edge permitted to explain your voice. Mr Franz Breznik has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u287	Thank you very much for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues! I am asking you to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, especially at tax rates which are reasonable, which are European and which are Europeanly comparable and also have some ethical status. Only one example for those who watch us through television sets, residential housing was valued by the coalition at a tax rate of 0.15%, us at 0.05% – that is, three times less. The most interesting issue is: 0.75% for business and industrial properties other than energy facilities, and our amendment defines this as 0.1%. What does that mean? This means that the largest dairy cows in this country must be those that are today smaller entrepreneurs, smaller companies that give bread to our people who employ people; and they will be the largest dairy farmers in the next period, as regards real estate tax. It is interesting, however, that for business and industrial facilities you demand a higher tax rate than for non-residential buildings, namely non-residential buildings according to your ethics. According to your ethics, respected colleagues and colleagues, the second, third, fifth and tenth weekends in Gozd Martuljk or at sea are taxed less than an industrial facility. And that's what's incomprehensible and illogical. I must admit that we too have a social sense of the Shale Valley, the inherited project TES 6 will be taxed on a new basis, according to your proposal for €6 million tax, if it remains; 1.5 billion, and 1.5 million at our level. We also have a social sense towards the Valley of jester to pay less so that she can somehow survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u288	Thank you. There is still an interest in explanations of vote and I invite you to report. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u289	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment, because the taxation of agricultural land, which is already taxed with another tax, is double taxation, and there is also about ten times higher taxation of agricultural land than in the neighbouring Republic of Austria. What is the state of Slovenian agriculture? We discussed the Report on the state of agriculture in 2012. We know what the results are, what is self-sustainment, what is the cultivation of agricultural land, what is the trend, and now we are also taxing agricultural land with this tax. Our customer is against this and by this amendment we exempt them from property taxes for agricultural land and also reduce other coefficients. We believe that farmers are in such a situation that it is necessary to find a solution to how to turn the trend in agriculture in a different direction rather than to tax further. This will not increase the competitiveness of our agriculture, nor will we increase self-sustainment, but will accelerate the abandonment of rural areas and the abolition of agriculture. The additional burden on the countryside with this tax will have a very negative effect, and I would expect farmers to react slightly differently to this law. I'm sure they will when they get the receipts.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u290	Thank you. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment because basically a lower tax than the one provided for in the original law is the law you're proposing in the coalition. A little earlier, there was also a talk about how we discussed this in our previous government. Yes, we did, but the numbers were about what we're proposing today, or even smaller when we talked about naming the building land into this law. It's a law or something. This article will also affect those who are far more weak. From one of the previous votes, the coalition has determined that the renter’s flats, i.e. those not directly owned by the individual, will be taxed by the person in the apartment. We're lowering it. I'd like to remind you of one more thing. I am extremely disturbed by duality, and I would like to draw attention to duality, and I will therefore point to such duplicity in relation to taxes now. Five years ago, Mrs Tavševa, who has now gone out, collected the billboards. At that time, she also spoke with Mr Anton and Kristina Trbeck of Jesenic. She hired them to come in front of the cameras and tell them how hard it was to live. This lady and the gentleman are looking for her today. She's gone. Don't answer any phones. Why? Because the fall mayor throws them out of his apartment because they can't pay the bills. That's the duality. How many more of these people will we have under this Article if our amendment is not adopted. I propose to Mrs Tavšev that she direct some money to the autumn Karitas if she made such a terrible use of it in 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u292	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u293	True, we have entered the whole debate on the real estate tax with the ambition to make the burden comparable to those we have been thinking about in 2010 and 2011. More than that, some other solutions – one of them is one of those – are very similar to those with which the opposition is leading the debate in these days. That's what we admitted. The nature of the tax, the tax burden, the possibility of legal remedies, all of these were positions that we presented in a few months of ongoing coalition coordination. But in the end it is necessary to find out, and this social democrats have never been kept secret that this tax also has a fiscal purpose. Respected and respected, in 2014 and 2015 this country must do its part to fulfil the commitments made to our European partners under the excessive deficit procedure. You know that very well. In 2014, we need to provide 188 million euros more for pensions than planned in the original budget. We need to provide additional funds for social transfers, for the financing of foreign interest, as well as for the realisation of bank recovery. Without this, there will be no start-up of lending and no job creation. The dilemma is therefore very clear in acute public finances. Whether we will forgive police officers, teachers, and officials, whether we will reduce social transfers or, even painfully and with all understanding, we will also introduce new mandatory taxes such as this tax. We've decided on the latter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u294	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u295	Thank you. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party because it provides a social state because it guarantees economic growth and taxes the rich. This amendment significantly reduces the rates of taxation, while the government of Alenka Bratušek and the coalition also tax buildings for other purposes: for public good, hospitals, health homes, even firehouses, although you say they are not taxed. Of course, they are if they are owned by congregations or local communities. This amendment complements this law in order to tax additionally those properties that are estimated at more than a million euros. This means that we tax the richer and the less poor. Dear colleagues and colleagues from DeSUS, I don't know how you can sit quietly today and not discuss it. We were all Members and Members, so [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] urged to strongly oppose this law. [[...]] With the delegations who visited us in the parliamentary groups, they were also your members. It's sad that on the one hand you're saying that you're for a social and a just state, and on the other hand you're tearing it down. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u296	Mrs. Sonja Ramšak, you're polarizing and you're also [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u297	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u298	abuse the instrument of explanation of voice. [[...]] The next debate is Mrs Janja Attack.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u299	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Hello, Members and Members of Parliament! Austria is four times larger than Slovenia and has a more favourable agricultural structure and a smaller share of land with limited farming conditions. The basic tax rate is 0.2%, which is five times less than the proposed tax in Slovenia. So I urge you to support this amendment, because we are lowering the tax rate. The estimated price as a basis for a real estate tax is not the only one that is contrary to the Constitution, because we believe that this real estate tax is unfair, because the property was overvalued or underestimated, so that the valuation was highly unprofessional. The owners of agricultural and forestry land are also expected to pay a real estate tax for forest roads as proposed by Gursa, so that it will also be serious for heirs to the legacy debates, because if young farmers are not the only heirs, farms are doomed to collapse, as it is impossible to overpay the farm at the time of takeover. If we look at reality, more and more young people are moving back to their parents after they finish college because they do not have access to resources that would allow them to become independent. I call on you not to hurt the population group with real estate tax because it is unfair and unconstitutional in some articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u300	Thank you. The next word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u301	Thank you for your word. Slovenia would almost become the country with the worst economic prospects in the developed parts of the world. Only Cyprus has escaped us, despite Mrs Bratušek's promises of what good economic growth we will have and how we will work successfully. All other countries are ahead of us because they have taken the right measures, such as the Baltic States, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and others. They have reduced taxes, thereby releasing credit crunches, at the same time attracting investors from abroad who are going into a favourable tax environment, as you have already heard about tax havens. You told us, take it from the rich, and last year we really did this with a property tax, taxed everyone over 500 thousand euros. These are the ones with more than 500 000 euros in assets. These are the ones who, say, have more and can pay more. Economic growth and new jobs will be only when taxes are falling but not increasing. We've already proven this in the SDS, and you don't know anything but pulling the last hammers out of the wallets of all types and bankrupting and borrowing the country. By law and by this article you also give a new blow to the countryside. We know that it is already very low self-sustainment today, that protection is to leave farms, and in 10 years we will be wondering why the situation is even worse. With our amendment, we are reducing tax rates; for agricultural buildings, for public use and for agricultural land, we are abolishing them because we are assessing that this would have a negative impact. That's why I'm going to support our amendment. I hope that the law will not be passed because you are already predicting that you will correct it, which means that you already know that it is not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u302	The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u303	Your Honor! I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which reduces the tax rates for all taxpayers with one intention to make the tax burden more acceptable and not as high as proposed by a coalition or government proposal. The problem is multiple and multi-layered. Economic operators in the Slovenian countryside, which is outside the centres, will be more taxed after new ones than they have been before, especially in those municipalities that had an encouraging and deplorable policy of compensation for building land to the economy. If the municipalities wanted to obtain economic operators, they were taxed as low as possible to have economic operators there. These congregations will now receive greater tax burdens. It is similar for many rural farms, as they have a whole set of auxiliary buildings near residential houses, farms have been restructured at that time, economic buildings are largely empty, serve as warehouses, garages or something like that. Now people are going to pay taxes for these things as well. Let me tell you in the case of Brežice Municipality, so far it has collected compensations of around 850,000 euros, after which it will be new over three million. Which means that the Brezians will be taxed four times as much as before at the expense of this unfair tax. I strongly oppose this and will therefore support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u304	Thank you. We are moving on to the continuation of the explanation of vote. I invite you to report. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u305	I will certainly vote in favour of the SDS amendment, which reduces the proposed taxes, because such a solution as in the basic text of the law may reflect the mentality presented by the President of the Government when she said that it raises taxes to make people feel safe. Murphy's marriage says when he's in possession of the government, it's not a safe individual, it's not his rights, it's not his property. As the basic text of the law is written in this article, it fully excuses Murphy's law, which obviously applies to you and the constitution does not. And for this reason, it is necessary to make this law a little more human, one that will serve its purpose and that it will not be a basic bar of development and prosperity for the people, for as it is written, it will be just that and nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u306	Thank you. The next one has the word mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u307	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I will support the SDS amendment. The tax rates proposed by the coalition are absolutely abnormally high. It was interesting to hear through the discussion what the main purpose of this real estate tax law was. It is crucial – the budget charger. However, in all developed countries, the sole purpose of the property tax is the development function and it belongs to local communities. With these tax rates that you are proposing, you will definitively stifle economic growth and kill those good companies that are working. However, I am sure that at the fifth amendment we will come to the conclusion that the President of the Government has been deceiving the Slovenian public for the third time. The President of the Government states: "Great companies will pay the same tax as before. The tax will be paid by housing owners 3 euros more per month than it has been so far." Have someone answer me who will pay EUR 205 million of the additional tax that the budget expects from the real estate tax. Who? The countryside? Small and micro enterprises? I think we've caught the Prime Minister at this amendment on another deceiving. We are at the sixth amendment and the Prime Minister of the Government has already deceived the Slovenian public three times.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u308	Thank you. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u309	I won't support the amendment. But I will say what I said yesterday and what was said yesterday. The Slovenian public must be told that this amendment reduces the existing rate of taxation to the extent that it should pay the municipalities 100 million euros from the budget. That's what the secretary of state said yesterday. That's what you're proposing, ladies and gentlemen. You can, because you have no responsibility and because you can suggest anything you want. It is our responsibility, however, to talk about the social state, to try to obtain from those who have the property the means by which we can ensure what the social state must have: social, education and everything else. Therefore, I think it is essential that we talk today about why no one can make a decision; not that we have been reopening the debate since we talked about each of these amendments. Our performance in front of the cameras – that's what you've often used to make it sound like we're telling the cameras we're talking to the viewers. I speak because it would be right to say that the average rate of taxation of an apartment worth €70,000 is €60 per year. That was said yesterday. But today you're talking about everything else than what we've talked about before. Therefore, we cannot support the amendment, we must not support it because it would totally miss what the law was proposed for.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u310	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Excuse me? Procedurally, Mr. Zvonko Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u311	Mr President, I think it would be good to warn the MP when he discusses that it is not good for him to mislead the Slovenian public. He said that if the average price of an apartment is 70 000, the tax is 60 euros. How? If the rate is 0.15. How? It can't be 60 euros. There's no way 60 euros are coming out. But that's not the problem. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u312	Procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u313	The fundamental problem with this law is that schools, kindergartens, non-profit housing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u314	Can you hear me, Mr. Black?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u315	municipalities, city funds paid at the expense of those who would pay less, shopping centres and so on. [[…]] My proposal was put forward at the outset, Mr President, that it would be good if, in such a case, when it comes to clearly misleading the public, you should warn the Member of Parliament of this matter and ask him not to do so in the future. By the way, when you warned me earlier when I was asking the question. I was asking rhetorical questions, and I didn't expect answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u316	All right, thanks. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u317	Thank you very much. In this article, we have proposed an amendment in the Slovenian People's Party to lower rates. Already in the second article, we have proposed an amendment that this is a local tax, exclusively a local tax. We have proposed this because we are responsible on this side because we have responsibility because we are concerned about social security because we are concerned about education because we are concerned about education, the economy, development and so on. We are doing all this in order to turn this watch, prepared by the economy, in a different direction, just as the economy is proposing. You are turning it towards increasing unemployment, underestimating young people and falling foreign investment. I'm gonna stick this watch up here, and I hope when you see that you remember that you have to do something for the economy that will be good. Now, specifically. We have also proposed this amendment for the sake of my dear colleagues and colleagues not to destroy the municipalities. If we destroy the congregations, we have destroyed Slovenia and the Slovenian economy. With the collection of EUR 191 million gathered now, the municipalities will have to return about EUR 50 million to the state budget; so they will have so much less in the next three years, approx. 140 million euros alone. But that's not all and that's not true. The calculation you made for the congregations says that the congregation will pay taxes on buildings owned by municipalities, EUR 80,000 for one specific municipality, and it has calculated 206 million. Please, it's called [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u318	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u319	Thank you very much, President, for your word. My intention was not to discuss or confront, but I will first say that I will not support this amendment; but I will not support it because you have not proposed a zero rate. If we were to propose this level, I would be happy to confirm your proposal. So let's move on to someone on the right. Dear colleagues, valued colleagues from the SDS, as well as valued colleagues and some others from opposition parties or the Slovenian People's Party [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u320	Mr. Jurša, I must warn you that controversy is not permitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u321	Excuse me, President. I've been listening all night to the readings on DeSUS. I'll answer in a few sentences. The last reading was from a colleague of Sonja Ramshak's. I'll proceed with the explanation. We have made some progress within coalition coordination and a relatively fast debate on this issue. I can talk about taking account of 50% of the relief, you know that the housing rate is 0.15% to gradually introduce this law. We also said that we are not satisfied with this. And ask yourself, how did we receive the ZUJF, were we then silent? Of course, we were because we were in the coalition and we had to do some things because it was in the interests of the state. Please don't use the DeSUS as we don't do for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u322	Thank you. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u323	Thank you. If we were populism in the SDS, we would really be proposing a zero level, but because we are responsible, we have proposed what the needs of agriculture, the economy and everyone else are. I wonder why Minister Stepišnik and Mr Židan are even ministers. Let me illustrate with one sentence. In 2010, Mr Židan spoke about the real estate tax, the level 0.03, that it was a tragedy for agriculture. Today we have before us a proposal for a law which provides for a tax of 0,30 for agricultural buildings and 0.15 for agricultural land. So a 10-fold or 20-fold of what the Minister of the Jews said in 2010 is a tragedy for agriculture, he now supports it. A true continuity of social democracy policy. On the other hand, we have Minister Stepišnik, who repeatedly talks about how to bring new and new investments to Slovenia without saying anything against the easy way to confirm that a tax rate for business, industrial property with a rate of 0.75 is to be adopted. We have two gentlemen who are completely silent, despite the fact that all participants in their areas are reminded that they will be gravediggers in their areas. But the policy of the coalition is what it is. Nationalisation is being prepared, especially in the countryside, and this government will – if it does not support the real amendment of the SDS Group, which brings back the bill's proposal to what has been done to compensate for the use of building land – smoothly and you will laugh at us. And you'll probably laugh at the people when they pay for these bills. I'll support the SDS amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u324	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! The real estate tax law is only one of the stampedes carried out by the current authority and coalition. A stampede in which she will suppress and trample practically everything in front of her. Of course, it is against Slovenian citizens, against these good people who have created something in their lives, and now they must be suppressed. And yesterday I used the parable, and today I'm going to do it again to essentially be a wrestler. These are the exceptional taxes imposed by the Turkish Ottoman Empire against non-Muslim citizens in order to suppress them, to force them to go away or to join the Muslim faith. And here too are the political backgrounds for these burdens and this tax. Mr. President?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u326	You're right, Mr Jerovšek. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask for peace in the hall. Only Mr Jerovšek has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u327	I'll support Section 6. They're jamming me with noise. I have to say that some people are funny, in fact it's a hunter, and it also makes me think that the founders used Ottoman samples because in the first version they also had a tax on sacral objects, which was a characteristic of foreign citizens in the Ottoman Empire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u328	Thank you. There is still an interest in explanation of vote, so I invite you to report. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u329	Thank you for your word. I will also support our amendment for the reasons that my colleagues have already cited regarding a prepared law that was already in the past and where the level was 0.03. And also on the basis of all initiatives taken by local communities and others. Among other things, from the Municipality of Ljubljana, where they say – for the first time: "We insist that the property tax is a local tax," and this proposal was included in the amendment, and you rejected it. Secondly: "As early as the introduction of the Real Estate Tax Act, municipalities must be able to decide on the amount of tax rates," this is exactly the amendment we are talking about. "After the introduction of the Real Estate Tax Act, the net effect must not be reduced to the municipalities in the budgets," we also point out this at all times. "The real estate tax law must not cause increased burden on the debtors compared to the current system," we also point out. And there's more. And they say, "We find that the Real Estate Tax Act has a strong impact on municipal budgets and municipalities have no legal basis to prepare their budgets, not for the planning of income and expenditure," and this is written down and signed by your mayor, Zoran Jankovic, who is watching you, not just us. The Municipality of Metlika says: "The municipal council has adopted a decision not to agree with the proposal for a real estate tax law." There are many such letters, so not only are the letters on this page, but they are also on the other side. And once again, you are so afraid of the impact on the reduction of these rates, and on the other hand, when one of the coalition parties sets the conditions, this fiscal anchor in the budget, which was previously discussed, is rapidly reduced by 40 million, leaving the wolf full and the goat whole. When we talk about some measures to reduce certain rates, however, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u330	Thank you. Mr Only Bevk has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u331	Thank you for your word, President. A respected choir! In accordance with Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask you, President, how will you organise the work of the National Assembly at this meeting and also the work of the National Assembly in the coming days. We started the real estate law at 2.33 p.m. and now we are at the 6th Amendment, there are 37 amendments to the end, and we are still awaiting the Energy Act, the 2014 and 2015 budgets and the Budget Implementation Act. If they take a 45-minute break at each SDS point, we have 4 times 45 minutes to break, then the Financial Committee needs to meet to harmonise the budget, and then we have to go back to the decision-making process. In addition, at 8 a.m. tomorrow, we have a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, at 10 a.m. in this Chamber, a public presentation of the Energy Law opinions, as we have invited a space Slovenia dealing with energy to this public presentation. How are we going to tell them that this hearing is going to fall off tomorrow? Mr President, we are now at the 6th Amendment to the Real Estate Act, and we started at half past three this afternoon and there are still 37 amendments to this law. In accordance with Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, how will you organise the work of the National Assembly in order to be effective, to make mature decisions and to keep Members and Members in some normal condition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u332	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. I must tell you that the explanations of vote are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the organisation of the work of the National Assembly, we are scheduled to work today until the conclusion of this meeting. So, until we're done, we'll work. We worked this week, as a rule, until 10:00 p.m., today is scheduled for the conclusion of the meeting. What's going to happen around midnight, maybe that's when we'll take a really 15, 20 minutes break to think about it, but this meeting is going to go on in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What happens when we get there by 24 hours, and maybe there's something to think about, how and what. But we're supposed to be working until the end. Thus, we are also accepted in the course of this meeting at the College of the President of the National Assembly, and it is also possible to read it in documents that discuss the timing of the extraordinary meeting. The next one to discuss is Mr Branko Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u333	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate all those who are fighting for citizens today, for economics, for agriculture, but we should have thought about it 10 years ago during this period when most of you were in the government and it was there when this country was destroyed through the banking system, by lending when you were destroying the economy, etc. If we were then to rule normally, this would not be the case, and this tax would not be necessary today. As for the amendment on the reduction of rates, I will vote against it. Just out of the simple principle that if a tax is, it should be average, for all to be equal. So far, too many exceptions have been made in this procedure, including lobbying, if you will. The case — in an agricultural area where we always defend a small farmer — has already come to a very low base. And also all the comparisons that have been made in public, that there will be 25 times more with us than in Austria, they don't. In Austria, not average level 0.8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u334	Thank you, too. There's still an interest in explaining the voice. Opening login option. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u335	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I suggest we just be patient, and the debate will be a long one. If there were at least a reduced procedure, such discussions on amendments would have been concluded at working-body meetings, but today we will have to continue here. Regarding the tax, it was said that these rates were appropriate not to be too high. These three amendments at Article 8 are now intended to avoid excessive burdens under the first amendment. One of these constitutional provisions has also laid down that this tax, although going on real estate, must not be unduly burdened in terms of the potential of the owner of such immovable age. In this part, a number of comparisons have already been made and should continue. I will start because some categories have already been mentioned several times, first of all with pensioners living in apartments in urban centres where apartments are highly valued. Surely this is an inappropriate high burden, for it will be a few times more burdens than it has been before. There's nothing to blame for this. The second issue is in the area of agriculture, which has been mentioned. My colleague, the percentage rate in Austria is higher and, on the other hand, the value of agricultural land is significantly lower, this is their valuation, so this calculation is that Austrian farms pay only 3 million land by five times more, so it is five times less to the spot. We have specific cases from the Austrian farmer, quoted by Professor Zagozhen. There are even a number of such cases. The ones we've heard a little bit more about listening to in these public stands, the others we're going to share with you here tonight.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u336	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u337	Thank you so much for saying that. We are aware that this amendment, which we are proposing, did not go to the minimum of possible taxation, but we have assessed where the limit is. And to all those who wish to receive zero taxation, we suggest that you support this amendment. Thus, the article is open and can be reached zero in the third reading of the law. I think it's the only way to fulfill the wishes of many you've expressed in the treatment of oz. Explanation of voice. But I am very upset that where there should be zero rates, this is in the area of agriculture that the Minister has completely cancelled. He then withdrew and devoted himself to other subjects. So now he's chasing gardeners, hairdressers and similar stories, instead of dealing with his own department and also defending the interests of agriculture. That levels are not already lower in the basic law, the problem is also that there was no possibility to discuss these procedures because the government has ignored all these things more or less. I propose that you support the amendment and that in the next step, as the amendments for the third reading are being tabled, let us also submit what some of you have now proposed, that is to say the zero rate of taxation of certain properties. And I'm going to support this amendment just to make it possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u338	Thank you. Now I think we can move on to a decision. We are voting on the amendment under the first item, the drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. If the amendment is adopted, the amendments under points two, three and four shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am making a second amendment to Article 6 in my decision, the proposaler is the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group. If the amendment is adopted under this point, the amendments under points three and four shall become irrelevant. Procedurally, Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u339	Dear President, I do not deny any of my colleagues the right to explain their vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, I would like to call on the whole Parliament in a procedural manner to take into account the collegiality of each other in these difficult situations and the impossibility of the pace we have in the National Assembly. We've practically been working for a while, I'll say, at the limit of endurance. For the record, it is also the responsibility of the coalition, but I want us to take this into account and to rationalise this debate as far as possible. President, my proposal would go – with respect for the business rights of Members and Members – to try to rationalise the debate and not at any time when the Rules of Procedure allows us to use the rights we have, because this is not the last vote, because there are still many amendments ahead. I understand that some things need to be reasoned with them, not to repeat the debate, which was the place and purpose of yesterday. Colleagues, in calling and desiring that we are right to each other, because I believe that we are all very tired together from this week and these days. I think it would be right to round up this session today, whatever its results will be, under normal circumstances and not at 6 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u340	Thank you. Maybe just for your explanation. If we do not complete the public presentation of the opinions, then count on us to continue our work on Saturday. I think it would be nice and good if the agreement between us, which I have tried to propose to the leaders of the Group of Members, were to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members and the individual would explain the vote if it were possible to have a separate or different position as the Group of Members. All I'm talking about is what I wanted to present at the working council. But no one can ask of you today. Mr Frangež, thank you for the pleasant initiative for further work. Mr Bogovic has the next procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u341	The Honorable President. I suggest we respect the Rules of Procedure. I know that you will, because you are a democratic President, because, indeed, today will take a long time and that we are all tired, we have also been among the people to whom it is also right that we are very collegiate and that we will allow them to listen to us. I'm asking for collegiality, that's all. And at that time, when we decided to do the procedure we now have in the National Assembly, 70,000 people signed in a good week. Many of these people will have severe problems because of this law and are keenly interested in the adoption of this law. They also want to know today the consequences of this law, which will be adopted in this way, so I propose that we take this time. The last time we tried to make progress on the working body, and unfortunately we failed in this marriage because the proposals came from the opposition, we were together from 11 a.m. and to half four a.m., I believe that this meeting will be a long one. But I am asking for collegiality, patience and respect for the Rules of Procedure and respect for people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u342	Thank you. I'd advise something. I think that, after these two procedural proposals, it is clear that we will not reach agreement on doing things differently than the Rules of Procedure allow. To avoid wasting time today and this moment with new procedural proposals, I ask you whether you have any other proposal that deviates from business rules, or whether we continue to do as the Rules of Procedure stipulates, because consensus – already visible after two explanations – will not. Mr Tanko had the next procedural proposal. Mr Puksic, you were behind Mr Tank, it is your turn to make a procedural proposal, Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u343	Thank you so much for saying that. Don't accuse us of stalling this session. You interrupted this meeting of the National Assembly yourself two and a half days ago for an hour and a half, we ended earlier without need, you broke up on your own. Secondly, at the beginning of this item on agenda 3 we signed a proposal for a postponement to be addressed by the leaders of the parliamentary groups. You ignored, ignored all warnings and initiatives, and now we are in the voting phase on the amendments. I suggest we move the matter forward, so we'll be done when we're done. The debate or explanations are ongoing and it is now clear in the coalition that you will strike because almost no one is discussing. Now we see what a coalition statement in the National Assembly looks like.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u344	What's your procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u345	When this is over, it'll be over. I hope you are aware that you have taken advantage of all the fact that you have placed this item on the agenda in accordance with the coalition agreement. None of the proposals we have put forward have been accepted, none taken into account. We shouldn't even explain the vote on the amendments now. I propose, Mr President, the Rules of Procedure are clear that we are moving forward and that we are voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u346	Thank you. Just a brief explanation, the postponement was not possible because it would violate the Constitution. Mr Puksic has the next procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr President, you point out that it is wrong to speak in the Chamber. My procedural proposal is for you and I want to ask you because you are holding the meeting and also explaining the Rules of Procedure at this time. That's why it's okay if you hear me, so I've been waiting to tell you when you're free. Mr President, I ask you whether it is possible to restrict any Members, regardless of whether you agree with the leaders of the parliamentary groups on an agreement and limit the Member to the contrary to the Rules of Procedure in force. As President of the Business Commission, I can say that this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and that no one, including the College of the President of the National Assembly, has this right to restrict Members because it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. If this is what you want, you can make a proposal to the Business Commission, change the Rules of Procedure at this point and then different rules will apply. That's why I think all this exercise and the wasting of time, when colleague Bevk started, is a meaningless and real extension of the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u348	Thank you. The meeting may be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, if he wants to be respected, it is up to each individual whether he will respect this arrangement. But there is no way that we can put him before the fact that he has to respect it. Mr. Bevk, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u349	Thank you very much, President, for your word. When I took the principle of organising the work of the National Assembly in accordance with Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it was also one of the reasons why I, as President of the Committee on Infrastructure and Space for tomorrow at 10 a.m., called for a public presentation of opinions on the Energy Law. We have personally invited more than 100 people, experts, organisations, businesses and the media to a universal Slovenia dealing with energy. That's why I was a little reassured by your response earlier so that we could work on a public presentation of opinions. I also propose that we not cancel the public presentation of the opinions tomorrow and adjust the work of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u350	Well, that's true anyway. We will not postpone the public presentation of the opinions. This one's gonna work. I have already indicated the possibility that if we do not close within a reasonable time to avoid the public presentation of opinions and certain other obligations on Friday, we will be working on Saturday as one of the possible first days to complete and complete this meeting. But to finish this meeting as soon as possible, I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their voice? I'm sorry, I forgot. We are here to explain the vote requested by Mrs Ludmila Novak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u351	Dear colleagues! I see you're full of power and energy and we'll be discussing it long in the night. That is why I will be brief, and my Members do not have such a desire to discuss them because the President does not watch them on TV, so they are more calm, saying what is necessary. In New Slovenia we have made a reasonable amendment to this article, which I think you will all support because it is most reasonable. We are all committed to promoting the economy. We know that only with the growth of the economy can we get new jobs and the economy can also pay all taxes. Therefore, we have reduced the tax rate for business and industrial property from 0.75 to 0.40%, thus equating it with the proposal for energy facilities. We also reduced the tax rate from 0,30 to 0,15 % for agricultural buildings and also from 0,75 to 0,40 % for commercial and industrial land. We all know that agricultural and business facilities are not objects in which something luxurious is happening, but these are essential properties for both economic and agricultural activities. In New Slovenia we are convinced that this way we can promote the economy. While in other countries they are lowering taxes to attract new investors, we are increasing them, so I am sure that you will think carefully about our amendment and perhaps support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u352	Thank you. On behalf of the SDS mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u353	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As stated in the paper, I will talk about 3 proposals, in fact 3 different proposals to this article, all 3 proposals talking about a reduction in tax rates. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in general, we are in favour of reducing tax rates. Therefore, if any amendment were adopted to reduce enormously high tax rates, we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. High tax rates are harmful for several reasons because they tax agriculture, entrepreneurs, in short, those who actually create and reduce competitiveness on the market, both domestic and foreign. The deterioration of the conditions in which businesses, farmers and others operate means that Slovenia's competitiveness in Europe and the world is impaired. For individuals, the proposed tax rates proposed by the government of Alenka Bratušek are disproportionate to the income they receive. They are disproportionate because the estimated value of properties — made by Gurs and obtained during the period when it was easier to do so — is too high. And because citizens and citizens in Slovenia, in reality, have increasingly lower incomes and, on the other hand, the increasing cost of living. These are the costs that cannot be avoided. It is not possible to avoid costs for utilities that increase several times, it is impossible to avoid electricity, water, for those existential things that people need to live. For this reason, we will also support the amendment of New Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we believe that any reduction means a gain for citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u354	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u355	As I have already said, the three amendments are in Article 6 concerning rates and have different fiscal objectives. The first is an amendment that we have already rejected and reduced the revenue of the state budget or. income from this tax compared to previous building plots. This proposal, proposed by New Slovenia, raises these taxes from weak 190 million to approximately 260 million and has a key objective of decommissioning the economy. As this proposal is closest to what the Government has proposed, I believe that of all three proposals we have the best chance of being accepted. As Mr Šircelj has already said, it follows the right objectives, and these are the goals that try to reduce burdens on those who also create new value on their properties. Thus, it is on the one hand for agricultural buildings to come from the currently incomprehensible 0,30 to the same level as housing buildings now have 0.15; and also for business and industrial use to be equal to 0,40 %. In this way, at least one of the tax segments would signal the economy that we understand it. In this way, the economy would be less burdened than it has been so far, and those who own real estate would be more burdened because the objective was to reduce the rate from 0.75 to 0.40 from a fiscal point of view. Another important part of this amendment is that it no longer allows the municipalities to increase to 50% of the upgrade, as we have been warned by many economists, especially craftsmen. They fear that the already high levels that have been set would then raise the levels. The concept is somewhat different from the one proposed by Mr Križanič in 2010. I must admit that I personally agree with that concept, to set a relatively low, minimum rate and to leave it to the municipalities to assess what is best in this case. In this case, there was a restriction that this increase could not occur. We will support this amendment alone and also in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u356	Thank you. There is no longer any interest in explaining the vote on behalf of the groups. We are moving on to an explanation of the vote in our own name, and I invite you or give you the opportunity to apply. Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u357	Thank you very much again, President. I will support this amendment because it is an amendment that reduces tax rates. More than once, it has been said by the coalition that this is a system law. Yeah, it's supposed to be a system law, but unfortunately it's not. This tax will be intended exclusively to cover the 200 millionth hole in the budget, which means that this tax will burden our citizens twice or five times. The tax rate is too high and this amendment is the one that reduces these tax rates. Many times it has been said that the property tax is comparable to the European tax. He's not comparable! The tax base, which is the basis for the real estate law somewhere in Austria, does not come from some general market value, which happens to us, but comes from the income that the real estate owner receives from this property. The tax rate is higher there than some of you said. True, but the burden on the real estate owner is lower. Above all, the problem is a high tax rate for the economy. We are in a time of economic crisis and full of mouths, how we must help the economy at this time, help to make the economy competitive. By doing what we do today, we do exactly the opposite. If we are already going to accept such a property tax, then the tax rates should be lower or at least to be raised gradually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u358	Thank you. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u359	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we wanted our amendment to achieve an equivalent position of economy and energy. The fact that the tax rates for energy are 0,40 and, on the other hand, the tax rate for the economy 0,75 was also surprised by the president of the Committee on Finance at the meeting of the Committee, who said that he was also disturbed by this. I expected that the coalition would see a mistake here and that it would fix things by today's session and that it would table its amendment, where it would say it was true. Today I heard about TES 6, which will pay 0,40 on one side of the road and 0.75 on the other. I don't know, maybe we should go to the end a little bit to see how it is together, that the land is equivalent, and that's the difference in taxation. We're sending, I'll say again, Gorenje is being sent abroad. Then don't talk – her, we'll lose the economy. We're fucking him! Or you're pushing him! He's being pushed by Alenka Bratusek. And apparently, electric companies and Petrol have too little profit to have that much lower tax rate. Finally, I can only say that you have decided to destroy the economy and the population just to buy a government or government in Slovenia for a while. That's sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u360	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u361	Thank you very much. These explanations of vote are not about taking your own time or being here for a long time. But it is simply such an important matter, in my profound belief, for the death sentence of a number of economic operators, especially local communities and many municipalities, and even more so of many farms. Although we want to increase self - care, we will only reduce it. As previously said, Austria has 0.8% of its rate, it is not true. Austria has a 0.2% degree under the Evaluation Act. And a comparison, colleagues and colleagues made by Dr. Franz Zagożen, whom we can believe in in this area, for 95 hectares of land, for 25 hectares of forest, for the production of thousands of pigs is in Austria, in Austria, in the Czech Republic. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] President, what if I had a word and not a positive Slovenia congress?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u362	You have the floor, Mr. Pukšič, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u363	Aren't you going to keep them quiet? Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u364	Please, the others you're discussing. You are talking in the hall to calm down and allow Mr Pukšič to explain his voice. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u365	Okay, they haven't heard, they won't react, they're going on with an informal congress. Dr. Zagożen took it that the tax value in Austria is estimated at EUR 61,000 on the basis of their law. 61,000 euros! And 0.2% on this value is 122 euro tax. 122 Euros! The same farm with us after Gurs – now I hope you will leave me a few seconds longer – is estimated from 2 to 3 million and would pay the farmer for the same farm with us from [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u366	Thank you. Peace in the hall! Before I put my word forward, colleagues and colleagues, I am really asking you to speak in the lobby because you are in the way of the work of the National Assembly. Hello, do you copy?Oh, my God! Thank you. Mrs. Romana Tomc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Dear President, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, you are obliged to ensure that I now have the right to speak as a speaker without anyone reaching out to me. I didn't mean to interrupt my speech. I'm asking you to make sure of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u368	Another warning, colleagues and colleagues. Really, if you don't calm down, I'm gonna ask you to leave the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Tomcheva.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u369	Thank you very much. I will ask you to give me as much time as you have now. I would like to say that I will support the amendment of New Slovenia, although this is not exactly our amendment, but it is going in the right direction and in the direction we want – this is to reduce tax rates. This Article is typical of the fact that this law is intended exclusively to fill the budget and not to systematically regulate the taxation of real estate. And secondly, this law is the result of logistical pressures. When it comes to cases where the tax base is very broad, that a lot of taxpayers are paying in, the rule is that the tax rates must be low. These tax rates, which are now in law, are markedly high. And secondly, why did I say that I believe this is the result of lobbying pressures?Tell me one reasonable reason why the energy sector, which in Slovenia only creates remarks of valuable profits, would be taxed less than the economy in its entirety. Unless there were any whisperers in the back, how the rates should be regulated in the Real Estate Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u370	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u371	Thank you, President, and my thanks to you personally for the proper conduct of this session so far. I will support the amendment of New Slovenia and now the explanation; this amendment aims to neutralize the grey eminences of Slovenian energy, which are attached to the political parties of the left political province. This amendment aims to help the Slovenian economy. If adopted, this could also be the achievement of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, otherwise we do not record any positive achievements here, which could result in the Minister's immediate interpretation. This amendment also wants to help the top of the coalition, from which we hear that with the ZDN – with the Real Estate Tax Act we are looking for the last change in people. And we want to help avoid looking for the last change in people. You can imagine what it means to pick up the last change on the social side. And the one who declared it then raised his hand and picked up the change. Please think carefully, colleagues and colleagues, while the night is young, we have energy, but accept this amendment so that the article will be open so that you can correct this article in the third reading. Please support at least one amendment of the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u372	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, I know the concentration is dropping, but all of you who are gathered before the entrance to the hall are discussing and disturbing those who speak. Please sit in the bench or stay outside, but do not interfere with the part of the National Assembly, because the meeting will only last longer, no less. Mr. Pukšič, you have already explained your voice. You can't explain your voice again because you already had an opportunity to do this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u373	Mr President, I only wanted five, 10 seconds, as long as I was taken there, if I could supplement it if I could.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u374	Okay, you have ten seconds, but you have to understand that I'm going to stop you then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u375	I'll just finish. I wanted to say that in Austria this is estimated at 122 euros for such a farm and we would have between 2 and 3,000 euros. Because our starting point is the market value of real estate. And with the support of this amendment of New Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u376	Mr. Puksich, it's been 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u377	We're fixing it. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u378	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the next word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u379	I'll just go on with my predecessor. This law with its incredible rates of taxation is an attack, an attack on rural areas, agriculture, craftsmen, economy. And all of us from history know how such powers, such countries, who have literally given up their lives, have exerted unbearable pressure on their inhabitants, especially agriculture and rural areas. Here you have also taken a sample of your political predecessors after the end of the Second World War, which with incredible terror, with mandatory broadcasts to farmers. And in your coalition, philosophy prevailed, that it was necessary to get at those who were more difficult to connect, which were scattered across Slovenian land. You are also counting on the extraordinary kindness and patience of our people, but this is insolent thinking, this is an extremely insidious thinking that will be avenged – it will be avenged on the State, and on our children who are not at fault, because the present generation and the next generation will be forced into exile with such a policy of yours, and I will invite foreign people to enjoy it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u380	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u381	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I must say that I hope no one in the National Assembly discusses us. I think we need to discuss this because the topic is extremely important; and I hope that all of us sitting here are discussing this. I will support the amendment of New Slovenia because I am convinced that it is necessary to lower the tax rates, although I think we should stop the debate on this law at all, because it is extremely harmful in the given situation in our country. Once again, with these tax rates, as enshrined in the law, we are burdening the economy, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, burdening farmers, burdening virtually everything and everyone, burdening the pensioners, burdening the socially vulnerable, burdening all those on the brink of existence, and so on. To strengthen further, I would read only what is written here — the issue of poverty and how to solve it. In the first sentence of the recital: In 2013 humanitarian organisations in Slovenia found that the number of people in need of our assistance had already increased to 30% of the population. And we, with such solutions as are enshrined in the law, bring these people to despair, destroy the social state. I think if we continue this way and even if this law is passed and not these amendments, it will go bankrupt in a year or two of Slovenia, but except for those gods that are untouchable in this country, bankers, thieves and those who have robbed the country. The other Slovenian people, not to mention the periphery, not to mention Slovenian Goricas, Koroška, Pomurje, Prekmurje and also Gorenjska, where people break through day after day so they can pay the bills. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that we support these amendments and protect the Slovenian people from the robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u382	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm guessing there's still interest. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u383	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment because it goes in the same direction as that amendment that was rejected. I tell you, this is the next opportunity for some areas to be better regulated than those regulated by this law, we can come to a zero rate of taxation of certain properties and we can come to a more fair taxation of the economy. For there is no reason why certain parts of the economy are taxed differently than others and at a significantly lower rate. Here you can see the impact of some of the names from the energy lobby, which in the past or now controlled the rich parts of the state property. I don't understand why some investments can be Kada or. A court taxed differently than others, but it's state property. Why can some energy facilities be taxed differently than others? Above all, I find it inappropriate to see such high taxes on property in the countryside. We are already faced with the problem of emigration, migration of people from rural areas to urban centres. In particular, it is an intensive eviction of young people. And now the real estates in the countryside are just extra burdensome. This in the case of Slovenian work, which already has a low added value. Those engaged in farming cannot generate added value and are more or less dependent on aid and subsidies. And the poverty of the subsidies that will come will be further taxed because that is the forecast. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u384	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u385	Yes, I will support this amendment myself, because it follows the direction that we have proposed, but it will be necessary, if adopted in the third reading, to correct a little in the area of housing, but I do not think that this is a problem. This is now a preliminary test or an opportunity, especially for social Democrats, to bring this bad law into normal contexts. I had previously asked in one of the explanations of votes a rhetorical question, what happened to social democracy in Slovenia, with the Social Democrats in 3 years. If they are from this law, which bears the date of July 15, 2010, Dr. Franc Križanič, Minister of Finance; the representative of the Government, who will participate in the National Assembly, is Secretary of State Mateja Vraničar. Our Lady is also with us today and advocates a completely different taxation, a completely different platform, a completely different policy, but I must say that she holds the entire scheme of this coalition and the entire government up to date, because she is the only one with the most difficult issues on the 2015 budget, changes for 2014, as regards the real estate tax here as a representative of the Government. This government doesn't seem to have any ministers. Stepišnik has occasionally joined, and otherwise it seems that we have a government waiting only for the opportunity to take pictures and take pictures after this show, which she has imagined around her confidant on the 2014 budget rebalancing. What happened in 3 years, say Mr. Židan, Minister for Agriculture [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u386	Mr Černač, this is the second time I have warned you because you have a completely identical debate, as you have already had. You are discussing the content of the amendment, this is the subject of an explanation of vote, define how you will vote, and summarize the content of this amendment. What happened three, four, five years ago is history. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u387	That's exactly what I did, and I did it again, and I'm going to ask this rhetorical question again. Don't mind me, I'll put it on the next amendment, too, because you took 30 seconds so I can't finish my mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u388	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u389	Our amendment has not been adopted, so my support for the amendment of New Slovenia is certainly a start. It's simple to expose and tell people what's going on here and what's behind these amendments. This amendment is one of those with which Nova Slovenije – I said we would support the amendment – is simply diluting the lobby called the energy lobby. It used to be a nice thing to say. If you're on one side of the road and your company is called Gorenje, the tax will be the same if you're on the other side of the road, but the tax will be different.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u390	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, I can see the concentration is dropping. Focus on the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u391	I will. But I'm gonna have to take this later. Let me also tell you that this amendment also speaks of the poor, the poor people that Mrs Tavš sought in 2007. Like Anton and Kristina Trubeck. You know, Mrs. Tavsh, that's the situation. They're being thrown on the road today because they can't pay taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u392	Mr Gorenak, I will not really allow the controversy and I will have to stop the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u393	I'm gonna have to apply again. They're throwing them on the road today, waiting for your help, calling you on the phone, and you didn't answer. You can use some funds for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u394	Before I give my word for procedural, I can say that I will interrupt the debates that will move away from the content of the amendment. The procedural word is Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u395	Thank you very much. I didn't even want to react to that, President. I will not allow any member of the National Assembly to discredit me personally with such lies. This is unacceptable and I also ask you, President, that such malicious debates, which have no basis, be suspended. They have nothing to do with the amendment. If it goes this way, I think it's really wise to stop at this point, take time to think and all of us decide how we will continue the session, so that at least the dart will be acceptable for those who may still be watching us. Otherwise it is really a disgrace to Slovenian politics, a disgrace to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u396	Thank you. I do not think it is necessary to stress once again, let us stay with the content of the amendment when you explain your voice, and the meeting will take place faster and more effectively. The next one with a word is Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u397	President, thank you for your word. I'll focus on what we're meeting for today. I somehow support the amendment proposed by Nova Slovenija, because I believe it is going in a similar direction to our amendments. Above all, I would like to point out that we no longer have any government representatives in this Chamber at this time. In recent days, I have found that this is the government of one woman, every honor Mrs Vraničar has been given to defend such a tax. I couldn't do it myself. I believe that the arguments that he is somehow making up and that he is somehow trying to attract from every possible perspective that they are excellent in terms of the situation, given the depth of this tax alone. However, I would warn you that today would be very fair to have at least a finance minister sitting here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u398	Mr Breznik, you have begun to discuss and explain a voice with a topic that is not on the agenda. The government can't answer right now because we're in the voice-explanatory phase. If you don't explain the voice that's attached to the content, I'm going to take away your explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u399	Look, I was talking about a complete phase in the adoption of this law. There wasn't a minister on either of them. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u400	The next is Mrs Sonja Ramšak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u401	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendment of New Slovenia. I am sorry that you have not supported the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but I will support this amendment for the same reason as I have already mentioned in the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it is significantly lowering some of the levels that I believe and believe are criminal to people, to the economy and also to the public good. You're breaking the social state with this law. The big words are you every day, how social you are. You are destroying the Slovenian economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. You take a very important source of income from the municipalities. If you accept this amendment – I place it on your soul – you will be aware that this will allow citizens and citizens under better conditions to also use public goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u402	Thank you, too. We vote on the amendment under point 2, the proposal is the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group. If the amendment is adopted under this point, the amendments under points 3 and 4 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 50. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under point 3, the proposed amendment is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. If the amendment is adopted under this point, the amendment under point 4 becomes irrelevant. Mr Franz Bogovic has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u403	The third amendment is an amendment that has tried to bring the expected extraction closer to the current compensation for the building site. That is why we have halved these rates most of the time, as expectations are higher. We have also tried to eliminate some of the anomalies that appear at the level proposed today. The key difference is that we have introduced a new 1.5% load on the actual use code 1230101, these are shopping centres. The simulations made by the congregations showed that according to such rules as are now proposed for admission, the situation would be such that shopping centers — which, as you know, have little value as real estate, are very difficult — are four to six times lower than that. These were specific calculations made in the City Municipality of Celje. And in this same city congregation, a calculation was also made that, according to the new city centre, where the municipality has now established a particularly favourable situation for the locals by congregating the area, because it is harder to earn profits in the city’s cores, and today, in the city’s cores, they will be in the new law, if adopted as you suggest, for a specific 113 square metres they will go from a good 110, 120 euros to a thousand 300 euros. We're partly trying to eliminate these anomalies. The following change is also intended to reduce the remuneration for agricultural buildings to 0.15 and to exclude from the decision agricultural land, which we have already said here, that they are already taxed specifically in Slovenia on the cadastral income; that subsidies in agriculture are also taxed in Slovenia as an exception and not in practice in Europe that offset income for lower prices on the market. And to add 30 million levies to the new tax on land by raising both tax payments through income on subsidies as well as new taxes on land themselves on the second year to Slovenian agriculture, which produces about a billion incomes for the new tax. 3% of gross realisation receives second year agriculture. And those who speak talk about self-sustainment and the promotion of young people in rural areas will certainly not benefit the countryside. Agriculture is the sector which is now said to have been the most negotiated, and in fact, the second year of the new 30 million tax comes from the level of zero. We therefore propose such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u404	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u405	Thank you, President. The New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group because it goes in the same direction as the New Slovenia amendment and goes in the same direction as the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment, which unfortunately was rejected by the coalition. Explanation: We will support because this amendment reduces the burden of the Slovenian economy and this could be one of the successes, including Minister Stepišnik, who listens to us somewhere in the office and his bag is here and I welcome her. This would also be one of the only positive achievements of this ministry, because so far we do not record any. This amendment will also be supported because it neutralises the impact of the Slovenian grey eminence of Slovenian energy, which comes from the left political province. We will also support this amendment because it reduces the tax burdens on Slovenians, our homes, which Slovenia and Slovenians have honestly built, not on black. And these are our shrines. And before that, I've had lapsus lingue, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, please support at least one of the opposition's amendments. Here is a chance that perhaps together in the third reading, in a common agreement, we can reach the optimum tax rates. This article is of exceptional importance. And one more thing, and yesterday, we also witnessed the deception of Slovenian citizens and citizens with arithmetical backgrounds. It's such a delusion that high school kids and high school kids laugh at us. You're using an arithmetic medium. To at least use, let's say, weighted or weighted, as we call the Slovenian arithmetic medium. The proof that this is a disgrace you use is that in Slovenia you do not find two identical houses in the same place. Since this is not the case, you cannot use an arithmetic sequence. Please use other statistical methods rather than paint Slovenian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u406	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, he will explain the vote of the mags. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u407	Thank you very much. I have already said that high levels are harmful to the country, on the one hand, and on the other hand also harmful to people and the economy. Here I would like to explain the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, which we also support with the following: High tax rates, as proposed by the government of Alenka Bratušek, will accelerate nationalisation and feudalisation in the area of property in Slovenia. Why? The government also recognised that the tax burden on some would be too high by including Article 15 of the Act on Insurance of Obligations. And since the tax burden will be too high, the taxpayer will be able to transfer part of the property to the country. This will certainly happen, so that each year a greater share of this property will be transferred to the country, to the congregation. And who today are the most numerous real estate owners? Pensioners, older people who will not be able to bear this tax burden, and there will be an ever-increasing increase in property that the country will not be able to manage. On the other hand, people will have fewer and fewer properties, the ones they created themselves. In this way there will also be a change in the area of ownership structure, in the direction that more and more tenants will become liable again to the tax under this law and the tax burden will be passed on to them again. On the other hand, the congregation will not be able to manage it, the price of real estate will fall, and ladies and gentlemen will come with a lot of money, pick up these properties and rent them to the same persons. This is defined by the so-called credit where the government of Alenka Bratušek admits that it will not be possible to pay the tax, that all people will not be able to pay the tax. This means nationalisation, feudalisation, change in ownership structure, which means that no more 90% of people will own real estate, but maybe at the end only 10, and the rest will be tenants. And that is why I support the amendment, which sets lower rates and reduces the tax burden on the weakest, the poorest, who are – this is what statistics show – pensioners today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u408	Thank you. We have concluded the explanations for the vote of the parliamentary groups. You have the opportunity to apply for explanations of vote in your own name. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u409	Thank you very much. In Slovenia, there is one special feature: how citizens and citizens of this country came to their properties in the century. I believe that even those who support this law are some of them, and your neighbors and also a number of those who have worked seven days a week, 16 hours a day, years and years. Because they worked and were at work, taxes were paid. They paid their own income. For everything they got, VAT was paid. And that's where you put the line. Those who spent it on excursions or whatever else could have made it available freely. They have acquired, even yachts, taxes are no longer available. But the one who, three times with this money, has built a property or bought a real estate, is now being burdened by the ruling coalition, extra taxation, and we want to collect it. I very deeply agree with the fact that behind this law and beyond these rates, the quiet nationalisation of the Slovenian countryside and the change in the land book, the ownership structure in the land book will change in the next 10 years so that several tycoons will own the entire Slovenian countryside and not more Slovenian farmers who were 14 centuries old.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u410	Thank you. Mrs. Jasmina Opec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u411	Thank you so much for saying that. The policy of constantly new burdens on people and the economy is certainly not a policy that would enable the survival of our country. Maybe on short notice, until the next election, but what about the day after that? Greece — a country that was considered hopeless. In 2010, Greece went to fight the crisis by increasing taxes. That wasn't the solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u412	Ms Jasmina Opec, we are not on the subject, so I suggest you focus on tax rates.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u413	A voice explanation, please, I'll get there right away. That's why she took the opposite route this year and started lowering taxes. And what are the results? The European Commission said in its report that the Slovenian economy will also shrink in 2014, only in the European Union in addition to Cyprus. Greece, which has become a monument to the crisis in recent years, will have economic growth in the coming year. We learn from other people's mistakes, not ours, because the price is too high. What will the additional burden result, among other things? Entrepreneurs who are already negligent about your continuing taxes have, among other things, started to calculate this tax among their companies. And what path did they choose? They ordered their financiers to calculate the burdens of the new tax on labour costs, which means that workers will end up carrying this tax. Besides, they're already going to be carrying the tax on their mobiles. In the end, those who are weak always draw short, so I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u414	Thank you. Since there were some concerns about this content, colleague Jasmina Opec spoke about the tax rate, which also relates to the economy, and somehow justified her discussion, so I didn't want to interrupt because I think she was focused on this amendment. The next one with a word is Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u415	President, thank you very much for your word. I will personally support the amendment prepared by the Slovenian People's Party. I believe that it is approaching some real values, some small differences between residential and non-residential facilities where the Slovenian People's Party taxes them at the same rate. But I would like to say a few other things that we haven't opened today, but they are important. Slovenia, at least the government has announced that it will go on the path of disinvestment to go on the road to the sale of state property. I don't know if you've thought about it, too, that those who will buy state property will look at the rate of real estate tax after some analysis; or those who will invest any kind of investment, or companies who think they'll come into this business environment. Have you considered that at such a property tax, especially on business property, which you are taxing today after your amendments at a rate of 0.75% to make it an appropriate business environment? Do you think this is a competitive business environment? Are you sure you're aware of what you're doing on the mid-term or long-term of this country? I think I predicted next year during the cca. 5 and 6% of the deficit in the state budget, and I think this will be achieved. Slovenia will become a very uncompetitive country. The very uncompetitive business environment is also increasing today if you do not accept the SLS amendment. So you are increasing the quality of the Slovenian competitive environment and this therefore means less investment in the Slovenian environment by foreign investors. And that's what's gonna make us poor in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u416	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u417	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, because before that the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party did not receive the majority, as did New Slovenia. I think that it is imperative to lower tax bases, and this amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party also follows this. I will read another part of the paragraph in the introduction to the Problem of Poverty and how to solve it: "After the data collected in the survey, carried out among humanitarian organisations for the functioning of the status granted by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, in 2012 they assisted at least 744 thousand citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia." If this is not a large enough and difficult argument, the information that we are not further burdening our people, our citizens and our citizens, then I really do not know what else needs to happen in this country in order for the coalition and this government to come together with intelligence. It is a fact and we all know that the tax rates, as proposed in the law, are already burdening our economy, already and so on, from day to day, jobs are falling and many more companies, many tradesmen, many entrepreneurs, which will result in an increase in unemployment, a fall in jobs, fewer money in the budget, less money in the pension, less money in the health treasury. Is that really what we want? Are we going this way? I ask you kindly, and I ask you, I implore you, the coalition, the government, to listen to the amendments we are proposing. Listen to the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. However, there will be no total destruction of everything that Slovenia has left, and the total destruction of everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u418	Thank you, Mr. Pojbich. Time's up. There is still an interest in explanation of vote, so I suggest you sign up. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u419	Thank you, Madam President, once again for your word. I will also support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, because it goes exactly the way the two previous amendments wanted to send, especially because at least economic land and land for energy use are in some way overburdened. I will give a concrete example so that we know what we are talking about, because the land for energy use is also very high. The example of hydropower plants, Sokska power plants pay according to the current system approx. 100,000 Euros of burden, according to the new system, a million 200. It's probably a similar calculation for all hydropower plants and they're paying for the concession. That's it. In the morning and yesterday, we talked about the Energy Law, how we need to encourage and systematically regulate certain things, on the other hand, we have a law before us that will make it difficult for those energy operators to do business, and on the other hand, through reorganisations, we are putting an ever-new burden on them. This is already one such law if we look at just one concrete case. It is also unreasonable to tax public buildings, schools, kindergartens and all facilities owned by the municipality. I don't know if there's been a good thought in agricultural land as well. The largest holder is the Fund for Agricultural Lands. What's this high tax gonna pay for? Those who know, under what conditions and at what low cost, the Agricultural Land Fund is renting its land, you probably know that it will not be able to cover the tax imposed on it by this law. I hope that the Ministry and those who have prepared the law have also asked themselves about the revenues needed to cover these tax rates.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u420	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u421	Ladies and gentlemen! I will not support the amendment for the same reason as I did for the previous one. This amendment substantially reduces the rate, significantly reduces the results obtained by the law, which tells us what we want. We also want to get additional funds, and that's the whole point. However, I would like to respond to those deceptions when, for example, someone is talking about how we will nationalize companies, apartments, buildings with this law and that the state and the congregation will be the owner of everything. It's so easy, ladies and gentlemen, it's not working. If we assume that the average rate is 0.8, then we know that the annual value of one building is worth 150 000 euros, that is 150, 200 euros. How many years would it take to obtain this property by means of a tax debt that would be entered into this property? Someone's been talking about 10 years, it's deception, ladies and gentlemen. It is necessary to say that if the tax debt is to be entered into the property, it will be entered into a tax debt of one year which may be EUR 80 or 100 for the apartment or for the house of EUR 150 or EUR 200. That's the truth, and that's what needs to be said. Once again, I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u422	Thank you very much. There's still a wish to explain my voice, so I'm opening the application. Four Members have been notified. The first one has the word, Mr Jakob the Presecnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u423	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm not gonna take a second. I'm not gonna take two minutes. But what I'm going to say is that this third option is oz. The third amendment to the same article, that we called it somehow neutral and actually collects or is worth about or almost exactly as much as it took compensation for the use of building land by the economy and individuals. And always, all 10 years or how long, there was talk about the need to adopt the Real Estate Tax Act, we said that this was a substitute for all those laws that we replace with this law. That is why I will vote in favour of this third amendment to Article 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u424	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u425	I support this amendment because it follows the objective of more even taxation. As you have heard, the taxation of those who are highly profitable is coming back, it is mainly about larger shopping centres and we are eliminating this illogicality so that now small, poor people will pay for those who are larger and richer. In a way, this amendment follows the guidelines followed three years ago by the Social Democrats in the law of 15 July 2010, which I mentioned earlier, which was then proposed by Minister Križanič. The Minister of Agriculture was a magician back then. Dejan jedan, who is also today. And by doing so, we are also trying to eliminate this inconsistencies that we are experiencing in defending politics by the Social Democracy. It is illogical that in 3 years this direction changes so that in 3 years it advocates a completely different concept than 3 years ago. For this amendment allows us to direct this law in the direction that the Social Democrats have been seeking not long ago. However, if they are twofold in this respect, it will appear in the vote on this amendment. It was said that this position had changed because it was also supposed to have a fiscal purpose. We're in difficult situations. We need money. Two days ago, the Prime Minister convinced us not to need money, but we need time. Now we need to decide what we need. From the documents we have in the National Assembly and also from this law, we obviously need money. However, this 200 million will not solve this deficit, which you have also caused when you have allocated half a billion euros to two Taiwanese banks. ZIPRO provides in the five paragraphs for additional liabilities and guarantees of EUR 12.3 billion. This amendment or this law will not solve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u426	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u427	Thank you very much. The overall tax professions are clear that high tax rates are dangerous, especially when we have a broad tax base. It is difficult to operate on average, what is the average tax rate and what is the average tax. This may be a category that gives some form of this tax and, on the other hand, it is necessary to know that this tax and all taxes are individual, paid by persons, paid by those who are taxable or farms, entrepreneurs on behalf of the company or for themselves. This makes it very difficult to work on average, especially when talking about people, about individuals who will pay the tax. For example, Bill Gates has a net asset of $72 billion, which means that on average we are almost all billionaires in dollars that we are now in the hall, because we are slightly smaller, but that doesn't mean anything. As a result, operating with an average individual tax is wrong. I would like to point out that from year to year, when someone is unable to pay the tax, nationalisation can occur and later the sale of this property can take place. We are therefore talking about the urgent need to adopt this lower-level amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u428	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u429	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have come to say again on my own behalf to support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party in the presence of the Minister of Economy. Why? Because, like the amendment of New Slovenia and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party are also going towards decommissioning the economy. Colleagues and colleagues, next week, 20 November at 3 p.m. on Brdo pri Kranju is the top of the Slovenian economy. What are we gonna say there? What do we say we strangle the Slovenian economy with this law? I ask you kindly, as I have already proposed twice or three times, colleagues and colleagues, to support this amendment, to leave the government's position, to support this amendment, and to achieve and agree on optimum tax rates in the third reading together. This Article 6 is extremely important. Let's do something for the Slovenian economy that has to pay the tax. Now that he's in intensive care, when he asks for oxygen, let's give him that oxygen. When the gross domestic product grows at 2.3 percent, then I am also in favour of raising this tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u430	Thank you very much. I see interest. I'm opening a report. Five MPs have been reported. The first is Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u431	We have before us one of the last attempts, although I do not have much hope that it will be successful, since the coalition has rejected the previous amendment of colleagues from New Slovenia, which was truly merciful, even for the coalition, carefreely. After the rejection of these amendments by the opposition's members, I really wonder with what face ministers such as the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Agriculture and, above all, the Minister of Finance, around Slovenia and spending the flowers, how they support investment in the economy, how they feel as agricultural guardians, how there is nothing wrong with Slovenian finances. In short, colleagues and colleagues, this is one of the last attempts to make this madman, who is called a property tax, abnormally increasing tax rates, which in 2010 were said to be destructive to Slovenian agriculture, harmful to the Slovenian economy, and now that we have 30 times more proposals for the taxation of real estate, at least in the field of economy, these same representatives will easily push their vote "for" so they will reject these amendments. Colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, we ask for your wisdom.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u432	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u433	As far as possible, I would like to resist the rush of populism that fills this hall today. If we look at the tables and calculations of the Ministry of Finance, this results in a tax total of 368 million 781 thousand tax revenue in 2014. In other words, this will be a good percentage of our GDP. Let's look at the average of property taxation in the countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Club, OECD, and we will see that this is the average in these countries, including Slovenia, 1.8% of GDP. Respected and respected. I understand that a lot of people are resisting this tax. I fully understand that people do not accept it with broad arms. I understand that those of us who pay this tax will be hard to pay. But allow me, this tax is fixed in flats on, if we round, one thousand of the value of the apartment, which would take a thousand years to get the amount of the tax to the value of the apartment. Talking about nationalization, I'm sorry, it's a simple deception, a common populism. I respectfully ask that we bring a little reality into this debate. This evening is probably not about collecting political points. If so, I propose that we declare this Chamber a mere political arena in which the last bit of responsibility for the joint tasks we have to carry out is lacking. I ask all my colleagues and colleagues politely for reason and a call to the truth. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u434	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u435	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, there is no alternative but to try to explain what is the key problem of this law. Not only is the current tax revenue increasing by 100 percent. In addition, this law imposes a new burden on some and redistributes the burden to some, and this is essential. Earlier, it had been said that some shopping centres would be significantly less burdened than they have been so far, that energy would be significantly less burdensome than expected from the results. And that farmers will be further burdened, but they have already been burdened by the so-called cadastral income, which, by the way, also increases by 1. 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The problem with the burden on those who will be settled on property because they will be unable to pay is that with 100 euros we can block the entire assets of oz. with the one he sits on. That's an extra problem. Those affected by this problem will not be able to sell their real estate any more than to sell it to the tax authority. Perhaps you are aware of all the problems that come with the solution that you are going through so violently through the procedures of the National Assembly. Do you think that makes sense? It's fair to sit on someone's property, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Is it a thousand or 3,000 euros and he can't afford it anymore? It's not fair, it's not fair! The law that we have before us does not, with written solutions, produce normal logical and expected consequences. That is why this amendment needs to be supported as well as ours could.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u436	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u437	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support the lower-level amendment. But I'm going to touch agriculture and agricultural land on this amendment. The agricultural land used by the farmer to produce food must not be subject to fiscal solutions for the country. It must not have been, and three months ago, Minister Židan, who said at the time: "The Ministry just made comments yesterday on the law from the Finance Ministry, I believe that the law will be completely different in the final version than it is now. There's something you need to be aware of. In Slovenia, we have unanimously adopted a resolution – let's ensure food for tomorrow and then we must do so. That is why I do not feel any need, I do not see any need to tax agricultural land in use, forest land in use or buildings used by farmers for agricultural production. Since the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment is also the competent Ministry of Food Production in Slovenia, I want and expect our voice to be heard as well. I'd like to give you an example, if you don't mind. I have just returned from four days of agricultural negotiations in Luxembourg. Luxembourg is a highly regulated country, collecting taxes, collecting taxes well, and there it is also found that collecting taxes in the field of agricultural land or agricultural buildings in use is not appropriate, is not fair and does not do so." And what happened to the minister of the Jews? Suddenly, he landed second in popularity on the scales. One speaks, the other works. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u438	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u439	I guess it won't be a surprise if I say I'll support the amendment, because I think it's unacceptable for the new 200 million to be recovered from the property. It's not demagogism, populism, or some sort of average. In those days we spoke to many people, many people turning to us. Those who have low incomes and have in the past become owners of real estate, as honest workers, today pensioners, perhaps today the unemployed will have a new 100, 200, 300 euros if they have any more agricultural land besides buildings and houses.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u440	Order in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u441	Therefore, many will have very serious problems and it is not easy to talk about this increase. You're saying that the fiscal deficit makes it necessary to accept this. I already put forward a proposal yesterday for us to sit down and talk together – also from DeSUS types, a similar proposal came – 1% of our daily income and 20% to 30% of our current compensation for building land is about 200 million. Let us accept the crisis for 1 year if it is a hole, but at that time we speak in peace about what kind of marriage is appropriate. Then those who sit here could also pay the 300 Euros out of some 30,000 per year when we have them. Those pensioners who have 500 euros in pensions and 6,000 euros in benefits would only pay so much less, or perhaps they could be excused. And in this direction, we should be talking, and now we're all blackmailing each other, and in this time-consuming fuck, we're exhausting each other. Today it is a feeling that the opposition is exhausting the coalition, but in reality we will all exhaust the Slovenian economy, agriculture and rural areas together.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u442	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u443	Madam President, thank you for your floor. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. I think that the burden proposed by the existing government is wrong and too high, and that the matter would be at least slightly burdened here. The key error I see in this tax is the government of Alenka Bratušek, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u444	Your Honor, I'm asking for order in the hall. Even e-mails tell me there's no order in the hall what to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u445	is that the government of Alenka Bratušek does not realize that Slovenia has one great specific feature in the real estate sector. [[…]] Slovenia is an extremely wealthy country by ownership, and when we look at the owners of these properties, we find that these owners have very low incomes. And there's a major problem that you don't realize. And I would suggest to my colleague Frangež that he take another look at himself in the OECD study. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u446	Explanation of the voice, not to emilemize with others.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u447	take a look at the average wages in the OECD compared to Slovenia, what are the tax burdens on the OECD labour costs compared to Slovenia, and may conclude that it makes sense to support the SLS amendment. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u448	Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u449	As far as the amendment is concerned, I will support it. But you have to say something. A little while ago there was talk about populism and calling Members of Parliament to reason. I'll do the same. I will support the amendment because I don't think this law is populism; but it is populism if, at the time of the conjuncture, when pensions go up, when wages go up, when Christmases can be divided, and so on, you collect stacks and declare those who aren't poor. It's populism. I will support the amendment because I think the law is irresponsible. It is irresponsible for a person who has 300 euros in pension and who is paying 20 euros in tax or today. Refunds for the use of building land, send a ticket for, say, 200 euros. That's irresponsible. And I call you to reason, and I call you to support this amendment, which I will also support. It is also irresponsible that, if you want a farmer who barely survives, and still has to work bloodyly for 12 hours, you send – such a case is one of the neighbours in my environment – instead of sending Euro2 000 500. You know, that's irresponsible, and that's hypocritical and ugly. That's why I'm going to support this amendment because your marriage is improving. Even more ironic is, at least as far as pensioners are concerned, that those who advocate their interests will then slap their heads and send them a 300-euro ticket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u450	Thank you very much. We have concluded with explanations of vote on the amendment of the SLS Group of Ambassadors. We're moving to the vote. In doing so, I stress that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 4 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the amendment under order number 5 – SLS. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u451	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. If this law were to be adopted on a regular basis, as we have always tried, then it would probably not be necessary to introduce this amendment, since, at a stage, if not otherwise, public representation of opinions, in the stage of dealing with all stakeholders in this law and in the stage of dealing with civil society, the applicant would have found that, if not otherwise, the tax administration is causing major administrative problems that will arise. What's this all about? The point is that residential buildings are divided into residential and non-residential buildings. With this amendment, we propose that the separation of housing properties into residential and non-residential facilities be equivalent to the abolition of this separation due to a number of administrative matters that such separation will entail. In the records of non-residential buildings, older rural buildings that have remained empty for such or other reasons will be owned by the majority of the heirs of these facilities. So what happens now? You said - yes, in this way we will force the owners of empty buildings to sell them. That's easy to say, we just know that in this time of year it's very difficult to sell such objects, even in the countryside. However, such a facility could come in handy for the owner-parents to solve the housing problem of their children in such a way. On a legal basis, he and his child will have to sign a lease to characterize this facility as a residential facility. However, I am sure that the Slovenians are very resourceful and will agree that someone will report a permanent residence to this facility. This object will no longer be non-residential, but will become a residential object, with the difference that the planned significantly less revenue in the budget [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u452	Thank you very much. In my previous vote, I said that if the amendment had been adopted, the fourth amendment was irrelevant. Since he was not accepted, Mr Mikhael Prevc has now given an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members for the fourth amendment tabled by the SLS Group. Does anyone else want to explain their voice on behalf of the parliamentary groups? Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u453	Thank you. We will also support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for the content and reasons mentioned in the predecessor's explanation, especially because you rejected all the three amendments previously proposed. With the support of this amendment, we keep the article open, allowing us to continue to make an amendment in the third reading to the essential part of Article 6 which speaks of tax rates. These tax rates are those that are most problematic in this law, because they are disproportionate, not to mention that in some normal, fair way, immovable property is taxed, but to say that those whose assets are less valuable and less will be paid more than before, at the expense of the larger, richer ones who will pay less. It was already mentioned in the case of large shopping centres because you rejected the proposal, both our Slovenian People's Party and New Slovenia, which will pay three to five times less after the new payment. These were the specific examples of the farm, which is now paying EUR 322 in compensation and other taxes on immovable property and will pay EUR 2 000 in new taxes. This was the case of a school in a small town attended by 500 children, who will pay €15 000 a year after the new tax, now pays nothing. There's 600 schools like this all over the country. And let's not forget the apartments, especially the non-profit apartments owned by the state, in particular the Republic Housing Fund of the municipalities, the second largest owner – it was said – is the city fund of the Ljubljana Municipality and some others. This tax, which is today zero euros because these apartments are not being paid for, will be worth over €10 million. This means that at least 150 new dwellings will be lost annually in the area of housing policy, which will not be for those who cannot provide housing units with their own resources. All of these are missteps that speak of a policy that has begun to be established in the past, at least to some extent, being completely destroyed by this article. At the very least, this article should correct these things. For this reason, we will support this amendment and if it is supported by those who have proposed this inadequate law, then also within the framework of the third reading we would propose appropriate corrections in such a way that this law will, on the one hand, provide what you say, some fiscal resources, but at the expense of a reasonable burden.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u454	Here you are, Mr Joseph Horvat, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u455	Thank you, Vice President. The New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party. The content has already been told, I will not repeat it, but it is again my fourth request, addressed to colleagues and colleagues, friends and friends from the coalition, to consider and support this amendment just because the article will be open and we are trying to find the optimum tax rates that are extremely important in this law in the third reading. I greatly appreciate my distinguished fellow Member from the 2004-2008 mandate of Mr Bojan Starman, who is on the website of the National List for the first time beautifully painted, and secondly, he says, "With the increase of taxes, we cut down the branch on which we sit."
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u456	Please, on behalf of your Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u457	And now I'm coming to the parliamentary group. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats wrote in the congress resolution just that, New Slovenia - we are Christian Democrats for low taxes because we are for economic growth because the economy needs oxygen. And now we have this opportunity to do so, but the Slovenian economy is still in intensive care. Either we want to strangle him or we want to get him oxygen. There are also some options, including support for this amendment. The New Slovenia Group, which is against tax raising, will support the amendment of colleagues from the SLS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u458	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? Yes, you do. I am opening the application for explanations of vote and then we are going to the vote. The first is Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u459	Thank you very much. If it becomes concrete in life, and all those in the countryside who have built so-called twins and parents own these houses in one of the entrances, live young or live, take over the farm, parents will pay a higher tax for this apartment. In short, if this is not a pressure to collect money from the countryside and from agriculture across all possible fronts that exist and that do not exist, it cannot be said otherwise. On the other hand, such houses have been created, as I have already said, here in our country we are Slovenians somewhat special, we have many properties in use, owned as individuals. In other countries, most of them are hired, but we should let that go, we should support that. Instead of stopping farms in this way, destroying them, destroying the countryside in this way, dragging young people into cities, keeping people in the countryside is the cheapest, including maintaining the whole area. We have to have community services in the cities and so on, and in the countryside those who live there also take care of the landscape. And today, when congregations in local communities invested heavily in the quality of life in order for young people to remain in the countryside. Please, the government coalition, don't demand young people from the countryside.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u460	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u461	With this amendment to this paragraph, with the deletion of this paragraph and the word "residential", we wanted to point out that with such a dictatorship – and now that it is necessary to control it again, whether an apartment is full, empty or a contract has been concluded in time – it has not been concluded in time – with this title created a whole series of problems, speculations and also unrealistic data. Therefore, we propose that the matter be simpler, that for all units this burden is the same. There are many cases where there are empty apartments in the countryside because different households have been emptied, and this will almost be taxed on almost 3.5 times as much as if there were another family member living there. Believe that these people would be happy to sell such a household or rent it to someone, but unfortunately the reality is such that it is impossible to do so. On the other hand, we have a whole range of empty apartments in cities of residential nature and are unoccupied. From this title, new pressures will be put on those who built these apartments, whether it will put pressure on creditors waiting in bankruptcy proceedings to sell these imported investments and so on. I think that he will have this tax, in addition to making the right reference and leading people to write some speculative treaties, also have a number of other bad effects. The big problem is that if the family has two units and the child goes to live in this unit, for example. In the city or if someone withdraws and the copy is still pending, this young family will have a three-time rate at once. We think it's kind of a flaw. If the laws were to be as simple as possible for implementation as possible for supervision, we believe that these amendments should be adopted and the anomaly removed from the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u462	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We vote on the fourth amendment of the SLS Group to Article 6. We vote 82 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 46. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the fifth amendment of the SLS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? He does, Mr Franz Pukšič, on behalf of the SLS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u463	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, that this picture, which the economy has drawn and written before me, will not be disastrously worse in the coming year, I call on you to have a little bit of sense. So turn your mind on leaving the local policy in accordance with Article 6, paragraph 5, where it is stated that municipalities can influence individual tax rates themselves, increase or decrease according to their spatial and economic policies without limiting them. We therefore propose deleting the sixth paragraph of this Article, where you prohibit municipalities from operating in their area for the next 3 years. The fact is, with such an amended law, you will collect twice as many citizens in the municipality of Ptuj as were collected with the Law on the Reimbursement of Building Land. Dornava three times; Juršinci, I have already said this four times yesterday; Lenartt three times; Kobaridu five times; Halo Municipality of Majšperku four times; Ljubljana will pick up twice as many; and Velenje twice as many in Nova Gorica for 1.5 times as many. And there's another huge difference. The previously mentioned municipalities will also have a lower financial settlement due to this, in Dornav for 20,000 euros, in Kobarid for 155 000 euros, in Majsperk for 50,000 euros and so on. Or, in other words, in this transitional period, instead of having local communities as yet with 191 million, they will have — remember, in a year’s time, data will be available on the table — with about 120 million. Where'd that come from? Data from one of the municipalities where the state calculated – I'm afraid this is unfortunately a fraud, and later they will say that the records will be different – that the municipality will tax its local community only EUR 87,000. The actual calculation they made in the congregation, who know things, is over EUR 206,000. That means 2.5 times that. And that's why the congregations will have so much less money. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u464	Mag. Mr Andrej Shircelj on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u465	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support this amendment because worldwide property tax or property tax is a source of funding for local communities, strengthening local self-government and also increasing the quality of services in individual local communities. In other words, local communities are given the opportunity to lead a taxation policy with property taxes everywhere. And the property tax is a property tax, even if it has to give extra money to some congregations. It's all over the world and all over Europe. In Slovenia we centralise property taxes, in Slovenia we abolish local self-government in the financial field by proposing Alenka Bratušek. Why? Because some congregations would be in a much worse position than they are today. This applies according to the calculations of rural municipalities, because in rural areas there are those municipalities where they lose this tax also because agricultural areas will be much more taxed than they are after the current tax. That this government thinks that it can manage local policies from one centre in the area of space, social and competitiveness is a misleading opinion. That's not possible. And that means centralisation, not decentralisation of Slovenia. And that, of course, means that the quality of services offered at local level will be much lower for citizens and citizens. We will therefore support the Slovenian People's Party's Amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party and thus ensure greater self-government and better quality of services at local level.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u466	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u467	Thank you, Madam President. The New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party to Article 6, because this amendment at least partially mitigates the permanent violations of the principle of subsidiarity committed by the Government because it underestimates the system of local self-government, which is another of the only subsystems that operate well in the country. The second reason why we will support this amendment is that we have already asked 99 times, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition to support this amendment on the grounds that Article 6, which sets tax rates, will be open and that we will determine all together in the third reading and we will also bear responsibility – we do not run away from responsibility, we want, the opposition, New Slovenia, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party, we do not run away from responsibility. We want to take responsibility and we want to take part in this article, which would set more optimal tax rates in the third reading. Above all, in this sense, to relieve the economy. Colleagues and colleagues, yesterday we received a Communication from the European Commission entitled "A Summer Growth Survey", entitled "European Semester 2014: A Consolidation of Economic Recovery". Where are we and Cyprus? Only me and Cyprus! Yeah, I'm worried about that. The European Commission therefore remains in its balanced strategy for economic growth and jobs and the five main priorities for the coming year: firstly, achieving differentiated growth-friendly consolidation of public finances; secondly, restoring bank loans to the economy; thirdly, promoting economic growth and competitiveness for today and tomorrow; fourthly, eliminating unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; and fifthly, updating public administration. Modernisation of public administration! Let's take this step, please. Let's support this amendment so that Article 6 is open. The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u468	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mrs. Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u469	Thank you so much for saying that. At the start of the crisis, when state policy was not able to take appropriate measures in a timely manner, certain municipalities reacted quickly to the new situation. By amending the municipal decrees, they reduced the remuneration for the use of betting land, in particular in craft-business zones, attracting certain investors, opening jobs and the economy flourished. The municipalities are not, as many want to show, an enemy of this country, an even less hostile of humans. Just at a time when state policy fails and is unable to take certain measures in a timely manner, the municipalities are the ones who can solve a number of things with the right measures. And we have to make it possible for them, not to stop them. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u470	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u471	Thank you very much. We are talking about the fifth and sixth paragraphs of Article 6. These two paragraphs allow municipalities to increase or reduce this tax by half. In the following paragraph, paragraph 6, this is prohibited after this dictatorship in order to reduce tax duties in municipalities where there is financial compensation. Colleagues and colleagues, three quarters of Slovenian municipalities have financial compensation. This means that you prohibit or abolish local self-government, the principle of subsidiarity in three quarters of Slovenian municipalities. I was also a mayor of the municipality where we had a financial settlement, and even in the business zone that we built, for three to five years we cancelled the building land compensation, except that someone came into this business zone. You know well that scissors and canvas have a country in the financing of municipalities. This minister, who works very badly for local self-government, will put municipalities in a desperate position and will be required to settle financially in an ever-increasing number of municipalities. And you, colleagues and colleagues, prohibit three quarters of Slovenian municipalities from pursuing their policy; and I hope you are aware of what is being done with this article. Here one of the European provisions deriving from the Charter of Local Self-Government is in grave breach and this is also one of our constitutional rights to ensure quality local self-government and quality resources. You are also interfering with this law, and I do not think we really need to do this, so we propose that you accept this amendment and that the congregations be able to decide their own resources, their own policies. Most of the time, it is where the financial settlement is, even for people, the most difficult to live, and it is unacceptable that these taxes be increased. More. The first three years of money will flow from rural to urban areas because we know that the tide will remain the same for several years, so that 3 years of money goes into cities, and from there it is prohibited to reduce taxation eventually. I think we're going to [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u472	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u473	I'll support this amendment, too. Those who have carefully examined this law, especially those articles which stipulate that the first three years are the income of the State and that the vast majority of rural municipalities that collect smaller NUSZ, as half of this tax, will receive 20% of what will be collected in the municipality 3 years ago. Three quarters of the municipalities have a financial settlement. What does this article prohibit? We forbid those poor people from lowering and increasing, so that 80% of this tax goes to the country or to the larger city hall. If this is not contrary to the Law on Local Self-Government, the European Charter on Local Self-Government and the Constitution, then I do not know what else is. You're making a fool out of these congregations. On the other hand, you demand that all public economic services perform. From where? The impact of all these laws that you will now adopt — property tax, municipal financing law and budget law — you will take 10% of the eligible expenditure from some municipalities. Do the math. How much longer do they have to finance their investments? By the end of 2015, I do not know how many billions, not millions of European funds, but most of the projects are carried out by municipalities. We take our own spears. Where they will provide their own resources. Municipality of Kočevje will be at EUR 297 000 per year [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u474	Thank you very much. You still want to explain your voice. I'm opening an application to explain my voice. The application shall be made. Three Members have been notified. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u475	Madam President, thank you for your word. I would also support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, because it is very meaningful, not only is it meaningful, it is a life amendment that is normal. I think that all of you have recently seen one of the contributions to the 1st programme of Slovenian national television, where they spoke about the Rogaševci municipality, which is a rather poor municipality, has the highest unemployment rate and how the mayor, with his administration at the time, tried to reduce the compensation for the building land just because some families stayed in this congregation. We also have such municipalities in Slovenian Gorica full; the municipalities of Cerkvenjak, Benedikt, Lenart, Jurovski Dol and the Council of Trojica have had a moderate rate of compensation for building land and will now be reduced, some to 3 times. That's why I'm calling for some moderation. I believe that some other than the Ljubljana Bond have not seen anything else, but I invite you to come to the Slovenian Mountains, not only when you come for the winter, come and see where some value is created. These municipalities, with mayors and all others, have worked hard to keep people in these difficult situations, many times they are very hilly areas that are hard to process, and yet they have spent years and years. I call you to moderation, to sound reasonable thinking, to my well-respected colleague and colleague, to support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which is very lifelike. The state must have some sense in that it somehow stresses those Slovenian defences that are very unreachable, that it is trying to save by some measures that people will live on these remote parts and create some value there. That is why I ask you once again and call for you to support the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u476	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u477	Thank you very much. It is clear that, as on behalf of the Group of Members, I myself will support this amendment. Colleagues and colleagues, there is a question of common sense in this country. If the president of the Social Democrats says that raising taxes is a four-fold more successful mechanism than reducing spending, then ask yourself where there is more reason. Well, not just that. How harmful such a policy is, how harmful it is for this country, how harmful it is for rural areas. Many European funds have not been spent, the 2014-2020 perspective has been prepared, and all other countries are ready for this, we are not. And by means of this mechanism, when we do not allow municipalities to manage themselves autonomously with at least the share, part of the income of local communities, we take the opportunity to draw on European funds. This is the only investment money, and in the last two, three years it has proved that if we did not have municipalities, if we did not have local communities, we would not even draw on this work that we did, and unfortunately much will remain in Brussels. Of course, the fundamental sin of all of this is the rule of the previous government in 3 years, when you spent 7 billion euros, it was a robbery for centuries.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u478	Explanation of voice!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u479	Vice President, you were in that coalition, too, so I know it hurts to point that out, but that's the truth. Now, admit and support at least any amendment that will correct or at least remedy these mistakes, cannot eliminate them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u480	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u481	Thank you very much. I have prepared a table concerning this article and this amendment; I will support you not to ask me. I'll give you some numbers below. People may feel like they don't care that we're fighting and I don't know what's going on. Watch out, 6 congregations where I was elected, how much more people will pay. Šmarje pri Jelšah 128, Rogaška Slatina 66, Rogatec 57, Podčetek 231% up and Kozje – we once said that this is the least developed part of Slovenia – 273% up and Bistrica ob Sotli 135% up. According to the formula laid down in this Article and after the allocation of funds, the municipalities will have the following percentages of less money. I emphasize – less money! Šmarje 21, Rogaška Slatina minus 16, Rogatec minus 28, Podčetek minus 31, Kozje minus 33 and Bistrica ob Sotli minus 20%. Are you going to tell me where the rest went now? Yeah, you gave Jankovic that, let's face it. And some of the bigger cities. See, that's the problem, and that's why this amendment needs to be supported, and people need to know why we're fighting. Because we don't fight, it's about justice, it's about truth, it's about lies on the other side, I mean you, ladies and gentlemen, against me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u482	Thank you. We are moving to a vote on the fifth amendment of Article 6 of the SLS Group. We vote 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 7 and to the first amendment of the SLS Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u483	Only then in your own name. Dear colleagues and colleagues, why did we decide in the Slovenian People's Party to table an amendment to Article 7? It's the taxation of illegal construction. You suggest that non-residential dwellings be taxed by half a percent more; the rest for a triple. In the Slovenian People's Party, we propose to delete this article. Our Member, Jasmina Opec, asked a question from the Parliament, received the following reply from the Government on 6 September: Activities to improve the situation in this area are running fast and will be implemented as a matter of priority by the end of this year. In the Slovenian People's Party, we agree on what is legal, what is legal, which is black and what is black. And what's black, we have to decide, and it's time to do this homework, whether it's legalized or broken. There is no way to resolve this by raising and raising taxes. Of course, we had a headache when we read the government's answer, which says it's cca. Twenty-four thousand illegal constructions. And within ten years, the inspectors issued a cca. Nine thousand decisions. This will tell citizens and citizens that it will not be their turn for the next 20 years anyway. And one more thing, illegal construction and taxation of illegal construction is only when there is a legal judgment for it. Since this response also stated that further work depends mainly on the financial allocations and the staffing and organisational possibilities, organizational and human resources matters are obviously very poorly regulated. I'm sure there's more to be done here. After the concrete fact you carried out, the following happened; in 2013 you had the money to break Kuzmich's little house. I believe it took a little money. We'd need a lot more money if we wanted Jaklich, Maher, and so on, to take down these guys' assets.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u484	Mr Pukšič, you have an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u485	Yes, because I've been explaining it all along why we decided to delete Article 7 from the state to make order in this area. Illegal buildings oz. black construction: whether we legalize or demolish them, there is no intermediate route.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u486	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? Does he? I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The first word is Mrs. Jasmina Opec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u487	Thank you so much for saying that. This article adds to the flawed concept of the Real Estate Tax Act. You could say that the law is getting ahead of itself. If we really wanted a system law that is just, we'd first set up the area of black construction. First a list and then a decision on what to do with these black constructions. Whether it is broken or legalized, of course, in exchange for payment and some compensation. And then you can step on the next step. In this way, there are only additional injustices, confusion in the system of ambiguity and, consequently, the chaotic situation that will follow the possible application of this law. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u488	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u489	I'll support the amendment myself. I think that we are again dealing with a serious and serious problem in the Republic of Slovenia with the wrong diagnosis, with the wrong medicines. We also want to put this much greater burden on the real estate law, three times. If we wanted to turn around a little now, what the consequences of this law would be, one could even say that the country is interested in making as many black constructions as possible, in order to make as many inflows into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as possible. This is probably not the purpose, but I also know these problems from practice at the local level, how the area of spatial planning is regulated in Slovenia and how long it takes in Slovenia for someone to handle the matter. I think that these years, which run in Slovenia – 5, 8 years – are too long for us to settle this area first and then have a very clear approach. I also support the fact that what is built on black and threatens the environment needs to be broken as soon as possible, but for everyone else there is some rapid legalisation, not that we are dealing with these matters with other tax advantages. In this case, we believe that there may be even a minor problem, such as that of others in this law, but once again, it points to the nonconsistency of this law. That is why we have proposed this amendment and will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u490	We turn to the vote on the first amendment tabled to Article 7. Let me say, if this amendment by the SLS Group is adopted under this point, then the amendment under point 2 becomes irrelevant. We vote 84 Members and Members present, voting 29, 50 against. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 7, which is the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 50. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 8 to which the four amendments have been tabled. We are moving on to the first amendment of the SLS Group. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr Jani Möderndorfer on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u491	Thank you very much, Madam President. In Positive Slovenia and in other coalition partners, we have been at a meeting of the Committee on Finance, and also later in the debate at the meeting of the National Assembly, we have always hesitated on what and how to do in order to properly regulate humanitarian organisations. The solution was to either lower the tax rate or go to another appropriate solution. In particular, because the dilemma has somehow led to a reduction and exemption only for certain humanitarian organisations or even for all those who are at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. It's like 150. That is why we have decided not only to make a cap at 0.5% of the tax, but we have come to the decision to exempt them from that tax. To make such a decision easier, we decided to take the following steps. In the first place, to support this amendment of the SLS and later to vote against the coalition amendment that we have tabled ourselves, and in the third reading, to put forward a new coalition amendment with which we will regulate only the solution, that is, to exempt humanitarian organisations from this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u492	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u493	We will also vote in favour of exempting humanitarian organisations from the obligation to pay the tax and will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u494	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u495	Indeed, the coalition MPs have been more rarely spoken so far, so you must have given the floor to them rather than to the amendment's proponents, given that I immediately raised my hand. But I am pleased that, as on the Committee on Finance, our amendment will also be adopted here. The amendment is very clear. It does not seem reasonable to us that humanitarian organisations, which in these difficult times are trying to make it a little easier for our citizens who are in the most difficult straits to collect about 100,000 euros in real estate taxes in this way. 100 000 euros for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is not much, but it is very large to convert into humanitarian packages that these people collect with their work, with contributions from individuals, various businesses and organisations. And in this way, those who are in the worst of times have better living conditions. I really hope that at least this amendment will go through, that it will not happen as it did with the amendment that was adopted on the committee and later be abolished. I don't think that's gonna happen in front of the public today. I think that in humanitarian activities and in all this, if we are opening the 8th article, which we will obviously open now, we should consider another matter, namely, others who are engaged in humanitarian activities – these are Slovenian firefighters and firefighters. Yesterday, it was very clear to Mr Horvat's question that those firefighters and firefighters who carry out this activity in facilities other than their own, whether owned by local communities or by municipalities or by private individuals, would pay a tax similar to that of everyone else. Just as it is possible to count humanitarian organisations on a few hundred numbers, this number, thank God, in Slovenia is significantly larger in firefighters. But believe me, there will be no speculation or deception in the firehouses. We all know where the firefighters are and where they're not. And if the coalition goes to amend the amendment to humanitarian organisations, I invite you to take a step further and to enable Slovenian firefighters and firefighters, who in a similar way collect funds both from public work and from people and businesses, to make their activities easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u496	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I didn't see your hand. I really saw Mr Möderndorfer first, and I gave him my word. Mr Franz Jurša on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u497	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. At the outset, I must say that we will support the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party in our Group. I must also say that I have been alerting this possible solution in coalition coordination all the time, but I must also say that there has been some bile debate around the firefighters themselves. At the very beginning of this law, I may have spoken among the first about the problem of firefighting and the burden of a firefighter with a property tax. But when I looked a little deeper into these matters, I found that article 50 of the Firefighters Act solves this issue in an appropriate way, since the law states that they are not taxing themselves. It is strictly written there for compensation for the use of building land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u498	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u499	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I am very pleased and pleased that it seems that this amendment will receive the unanimous support, of course also our votes of the New Slovenia Group. I think it would be really too cruel not to say brutally if the country in the humanitarian organisations that are actually carrying out their humanitarian mission in Slovenia today, if from, say, the European packages that thousands of thousands of people come from the European Community to Slovenia in order for the country to first collect its share, its number of packages; it would not be correct. I won't take any more time. I'm happy. More about facilities designed to protect and rescue or firehouses at the next amendment. So, from our side of support and thank you all, who have already announced this support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u500	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u501	Dear Vice President. I will be happy to support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, because I am sure that my debate in Parliament has also helped to make that decision. See how we can come together when it comes to important issues, so I expect the coalition to reject this law that we are discussing today. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party will be pleased to support this amendment because we are convinced that humanitarian organisations need to be exempt from property taxes precisely because, in this situation, in this situation, when the social picture in this country is extremely problematic, humanitarian organisations are the only ones in the extreme situation when they jump to help the socially disadvantaged. Yesterday I also talked about how many columns of people are waiting before the Red Cross before Karitas and so on. And if we are aware of the important task they perform, how important the humanitarian organisations perform in this situation, it is clear that we must do everything we can to help them, so that they can carry out their work as they do. That is why I think this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party is extremely important and it is right to exempt them from the property tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u502	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Braniselj on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u503	Thank you very much. Although the virtue of every good law is that it has as few exceptions as possible, humanitarian organisations deserve this exception. That is why we decided in the National Charter to support this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u504	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I am opening my application to the debate, and I did not expect that there would still be so much desire in its own name to explain the vote. The first word is Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u505	Thank you. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party because from my discussions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u506	I'm asking you to concentrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u507	I have pointed out to some other amendments that it is very important not to tax humanitarian organisations. [[...]] I would be very happy if it were not for firefighters, for only some firehouses would not be exempt, but all those who are owned — as a colleague has already said — will be paid — by local communities, municipalities, or in private hands. I think that all these organisations are doing an extremely important job, voluntarily without compensation, and that in this way we are somehow returning to them that they are doing well with a good return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u508	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u509	Thank you very much. Sometimes so little is needed if we listen and listen, we could do more for these citizens and citizens. However, the responsibility to listen and to hear is on the majority, that is, on the coalition. We used to do that when we were a coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u510	I respectfully ask for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u511	I'd ask if you'd stop my time and settle down there. We have done this and it is no exception, and it will not be an exception to allowing the humanitarian organisation not to pay the property tax. You know, the exception is in our country that we need so many humanitarian organizations. The exception is in our country, in the EU, that we are the last in economic growth or still in decline. And that is an exception to the fact that there are too many people living in our country on the brink of poverty. This share of €100,000 or €55,000 in the total tax is so small that it is good that it is worth doing, but I hope that you will have at least so much sense in ZIPRO that we will give the firefighters 3 million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u512	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Ambrožich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u513	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Of course, I will be pleased to support the amendment of colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party, because those of us who are very active in humanitarian organisations themselves are too aware of the need for such a measure, which would have been in reverse, so if it had not been adopted, would have been of great harm in offering assistance to individuals. I believe that we have all received a letter from the Red Cross, which is only one of 207 humanitarian organisations bearing the status under which the payment of this tax will be exempt. And that number they're giving in the letter, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u514	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u515	In 2012, more than 150 000 socially disadvantaged individuals were helped, telling everyone how much and important work such an organization is doing. [[...]] Once again, I will support the amendment as well as all related groups related to vulnerable populations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u516	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 8 has been unanimously adopted. We are moving on to the second amendment to Article 8 tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u517	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Once again, thank you for your support for the previous amendment. At 21:00 and 25 minutes, we started going well, and I'm not going to explain for long the contents of our amendment, we explained it yesterday. Among other things, it is a protection and rescue facility and functional land for these buildings, which we wish to exempt, inter alia, from the property tax. My colleague, Franz Jurša, is probably the first to talk about firehouses and criticise the intention to tax firehouses, and we cannot agree with this at all. The exact answer was given by State Secretary Matej Vraničar, and I thank her from this city, so firehouses that are not owned by fire companies will be taxed. And that's not good. We have about 2,000 firehouses in Slovenia. Today, we do not have data on the proportion of firehouses that are not owned by voluntary fire companies. And you know why they didn't, because some firehouses were spontaneously transferred to municipal property, so that the municipality could apply for various calls, acquire funds, including European homes, and keep these firehouses from collapse, restore them, and so on. Therefore, they may be temporarily owned by congregations or local communities. I think it would be a good message to the Slovenian public this evening, especially 151 000 volunteer firefighters, 1,400 voluntary firefighters' societies, to tell them today that firehouses, or more widely said protection and rescue facilities, will not be taxed or exempted. I'm asking for your support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u518	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we are going to vote on the second amendment to Article 8 of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Here you go, Mr. Franz Puksic, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u519	Vice President, I pressed the button, and my light didn't go off. I would like to ask if it is possible to repeat the vote because I would like to be there for the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u520	Dear Mr Pukšič, this warning should be during the vote, so we will not repeat the vote now, but your request and your request will be in the minutes. We are moving on to the third amendment tabled by the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the SDS mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u521	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to exempt the property tax on agricultural land and property for public use. I think that the explanation is perfectly logical, because agricultural land is the land where added value is created and which brings many people crops and also means survival. However, property in public use is property that is important for all people in this country and is predominantly owned by the State itself, by municipalities, by parastatal institutions, in short, by those of wider importance; property used in health care, in education; property from which people benefit. The taxation of property owned by the public, and primarily owned by those persons, those legal persons who receive money from public funds, means that the tax will be collected on the one hand and, on the other hand, the budget will have to finance that tax or that people will have a lower quality of services. This means that, in some ways, there is no point in taxing such properties. We therefore propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the property used for public use and agricultural land should not be taxed by this tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u522	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Does he want it in his own name? Mr. Robert Croat and then Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u523	Thank you for your word. I will personally support this amendment. I said earlier that agricultural land could not be some kind of a range to find fiscal solutions for the country. I appeal to the coalition, now I no longer have to go to the government, I propose not to experiment with agriculture but with the key sector of national survival with such fiscal ideas. The fact is that this tax you're applying today will not fill that hole you're always talking about. I'm talking about the deficit. The European Commission has made it clear that there will be a billion and a half holes for the next year, as announced by the government of Alenka Bratušek. That's a fact. And you've decided to enforce the property tax in order to fill the gap you're missing. You're missing a lot more. This will mean only one fifth of the resources you will receive or need to fill this gap in the budget. So what you're doing is a normal burden on people, and now that we're talking about agricultural land, it's a normal burden on Slovenian agriculture. The agricultural land must not be a range for the resolution of the fiscal policy of the country. On the ground, food is produced on agricultural land. Our mouths are full of ministers, self-sustainment, self-sustainment. What self - care if you now tax agricultural land at what level! That's unacceptable, that's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u524	In your own name, Mr. Andrej Chuš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u525	Although we confirmed an amendment a few minutes ago, it still seems to me that this is not something to congratulate you, because in the final stage the marriage is bad, it is not fair and it is not social. Let me say that I will support the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party to exempt agricultural land and property for public use from taxation. If I think about it, properties for public use, schools, kindergartens, municipal buildings, health homes. In the case of kindergartens who will have to pay a new real estate tax, it is highly likely that the costs of the real estate tax of these institutions will be borne by those individuals who visit these institutions. They need it. And if we conclude from that, it means that as a result, kindergartens will be more expensive and more expensive. With this tax, we additionally and again burden the economy needlessly. We have already made or confirmed negative measures against the Slovenian economy in six months this year to say that you are world champions in the invention and burden of the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u526	In your own name, explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u527	He's in his own name. Also as regards the proposal to exempt agricultural land from real estate tax. The property tax will strike the Slovenian farmer again in his pockets. This time, €30 million of additional resources are planned or expected in the budget only from Slovenian farmers. I think it's an unfair and unfair measure, the reserve is huge on the other side. At the same time, I ask myself, everything is paid by the Slovenian farmer and how I would be motivated by young people to stay in the countryside or in the farm.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u528	Thank you very much. I still see interest. I'm opening up an application to explain my voice. The first one has the word, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u529	President, thank you very much for your word. I also call on my colleagues and colleagues to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the freeing of agricultural land and facilities for public use. I would like to point out that last year Slovenia imported €1.5 billion of food on self-sustainment. 1.5 billion Euros of food! This information is frightening with regard to Slovenian self-sustainment. Slovenian farms are on average 6.5 hectares. It is often grown on smaller crops of fruit and vegetables, which are essential for a healthy population, which is urgently needed in the self-sustainment chain, can also be an additional activity on a farm. I invite you to support this because I think agriculture in Slovenia has been neglected. With all that you are doing today with this real estate tax also on agricultural areas, you will further impoverish the production of Slovenian healthy food. It's in a clear contradiction, as your minister, the agricultural minister in all the media, says. On the one hand, he talks about self-sustainment, and on the other hand, he hits farmers. This is contradictory, it is incomprehensible and I believe that we all have an interest in enjoying healthy, home-grown food, food from the local environment, food that in the supply logistic chain in the radius for a few hours on our tables. This amendment is an addition to these farms to be less taxed so that they can produce more fruit and vegetables. I call on you to support, because the thing is logical and understandable, it is in favour of raising the Slovenian self-sustainment chain. I believe that this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party as friends of Slovenia, as friends of healthy food, will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u530	Thank you. I would like to point out that the explanation of vote in its own name means that it does not discriminate with other Members, Members, or with the Government, Ministers, in its own name. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u531	Thank you, Madam President. I will support this amendment. First, a few words about the exemption for agricultural land. Full mouths are ministers on how a farmer needs to be burdened, how to give him a job, and on the other hand, we have in law that agricultural land is taxed. Our proposal is what we are following in Article 6 to exempt agricultural land from real estate tax. The Slovenian farmer has already been struck with various hardships, and I will not talk about natural disasters, but about the cadastral income that you tried to raise abnormally this year. We tax farmers what they live on, this is their land, this is unacceptable, so we ask for support. As far as property is concerned for public use, the transfer of money from one pocket to the other is little over, bringing only administrative costs, nothing else. In addition, this will end up costing all those who use kindergartens, health homes, and eventually it will also cost the congregations. As long as we have congregations, we also have municipal buildings, and we will have to pay taxes for them. In short, from left to right pocket, absolutely unnecessary. If you support this amendment, you will do something good for the Slovenian farmer and all those who use properties for public use.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u532	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u533	Colleagues and colleagues. Very little good will is required to move a stone here and there in this mosaic. Article 8 is an exemption. In this Article, 8 proposals for exemption and what Social Democrats propose in this Article, exemption from taxes on agricultural land and property for public use, and in the next Slovenian People's Party also on agricultural land, are so little necessary in this mosaic that we should simply do so. Colleagues and colleagues, it's our countryside! How much of our country has it healed? How much land is unprocessed? Why don't we do something different? Instead of taxing agricultural land, we would prefer to grant subsidies to those who would process these cultivated land. That would be true politics. Maybe instead of a social assistance policy, you'd rather have a policy "to fish or fish"?".. So let's have the fish fish fish, and from that area, let's make sure that the farm lands that have grown are processed. But they're in the food production function, and we have to keep them at all costs, but the responsibility, colleagues and colleagues, is up to you. Mine is only so much that I'm guilty because I'm here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u534	Thank you very much. It's still a wish. I am opening a motion to explain the vote to the third amendment to Article 8 of the drafting Article of the SDS Group. Mr. Tinker Bell has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u535	Yes, the lapsus lingue happened to my colleague Puksic when he said that this amendment was proposed by the Social Democrats. I believe why this happened to him because in public their Minister Dejan Židan speaks how he supports it and tells people, farmers – "We support that there is no tax, there will be no tax," he said in June. And then he came to the government and he said, "No, we're going to support this tax, just like today on the table." And it's normal for my colleague Pukšič to be wrong because I think this duality is already so pronounced that people can't overlook it, not in social-democrats, not in social-democrats. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u536	You're talking, please, about the amendment, not the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u537	This is what I am talking about and I am continuing on this point, where it is a matter of exempting taxes from agricultural land and from facilities in public use. With regard to agricultural land and facilities in public use, let me explain why humanitarian relief is not. What's the reason? That's where you confirmed the amendment, and now you won't. Why not? What's the difference? Whether agricultural activity is highly profitable in our country, we cannot support it with subsidies that even exist. And as far as objects in public use are concerned. What's going to happen? The tax will be applied to kindergartens, schools, in the first years, to the state budget and, on the other hand, the State will have to provide the same funds for the functioning of these same institutions. And after the tax is divided by half and half, something similar to the municipality, and from one pocket to another pocket back, and between one pile of administration, one bunch of unnecessary procedures. If there is any meaningful support for coalitions other than the opposition, there is an amendment. I think there will be a lot of problems, a lot of unnecessary administration; there will be no financial implications from this work.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u538	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u539	The third and fourth amendments to Article 8 are amendments tabled by colleagues from the SDS and the last fourth Slovenian People's Party. It is common between the two to introduce an exemption for payment for agricultural land, including an exemption for public use properties. I suggest we support the third amendment, and then the fourth is irrelevant, as we see. It is certainly right to introduce this exemption for both agricultural land and public-use facilities. It was said what it meant that now the municipalities would be halved by what they would pay for their facilities after the new tax because the tax would remain at the state level. However, in the agricultural field, we have already warned several times, as the craftsmen have warned, that measures are at stake, a measure for action. It's a big fear that this one won't be the last. In the area of agriculture this year, we have dealt with the cadastral income, which has had consequences already this year, and then we have placed certain caps there as well. In the following year, the change in agriculture is that there will be around 15 million new agricultural burdens due to the greater inclusion of subsidies in income, and a new tax is now coming on agricultural land. 30 million will be a gross effect in the following year, as I have already said, 3% of gross realisation. Those of you and those who have dealt with the economy know what gross realization means, not any income left over, which is very little in agriculture. And anyone who has a percentage of the rest of the traffic in some activity would be very happy today. Here, colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about next year, 3% less money than realisation in agriculture, so support this amendment. I'll back the amendment myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u540	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u541	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment to Article 8 which proposes to exempt agricultural land and property for public use from taxation. New Slovenia - We are Christian Democrats for family farms, but look at the message you will give, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, to Slovenian farmers, especially the successors of farms, to young generations, who today are given big taxes, including by this law, that I am not talking about other laws now, because I cannot because it is an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u542	Order in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u543	Thank you very much, President, for creating order – otherwise, as it seems, without success. I call, indeed, I can also kneel on behalf of Slovenian farmers to support this amendment, which will remove agricultural land from taxation, because otherwise what is happening is that the father has given the farm back to his son because of this law, due to the proposal of the law. If you have such a relationship with Slovenian farmers who cultivate this beautiful land, this beautiful landscape, and that come foreign tourists who admire our beautiful landscape, then fine. With hard stone in your heart you will be able to delete and not support this amendment. New Slovenia will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u544	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are beginning the vote on the third amendment to Article 8 proposed by the SDS Group. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 4 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the fourth amendment tabled by the SLS Group. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u545	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Prof. Zagozhen, our former colleague from before several mandates, made an excellent comparison regarding the income conditions of farming in Austria and Slovenia. I think it's good to read this comparison. As far as our amendment is concerned, we have already stressed at the previous amendment the importance of agricultural land as a basic means of agricultural production and, as such, it is certainly justified that our amendment should not be taxed as a basic asset. After all, agricultural land is also taxed on cadastral income and it is certainly not appropriate to treat it in two ways or in two ways. We will support our amendment proposal in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u546	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u547	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Hope dies last, they say. The New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of colleagues of the Slovenian People's Party, which exempts agricultural land from taxation. Colleagues and colleagues, those who come from the countryside, from the village, you probably have calculated or you know how many farmers there are in the village. About 10%, 20%, nothing more. How old are they? Ask yourself. What's their income? For example, a farmer's pension. How high is the farmer's pension? In addition to the tax they already have over the cadastral income, this tax now falls on their shoulders on real estate or specifically on agricultural land. Who's gonna be crazy enough to farm land? Those who want to sell to the Agricultural Land Fund are waiting, as one of the farmers from Pomurje writes here, for two to three years not to talk about the ransom price. This price is half lower than what the tax base is. Therefore, it is imperative and only wise to support this amendment. New Slovenia will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u548	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Emissary Group? Anyone else in their own name? I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Four Members and Members of Parliament have been notified. Mrs. Jasmina Opec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u549	Thank you very much. Surely we all agree that we need to increase self-sustainment and that we need quality Slovenian food for the well-being of our citizens and citizens. However, the difference between us is that you think that self-sustainment will increase with the increased promotion of Slovenian food. We are confident that Slovenian food will not grow on TV ads and posters, but on quality fields, on farms that have the basic conditions for their operation. Agricultural land is not a luxury, it is a basic means of survival, not just to farmers, that there will be no mistake, but all of us. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u550	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u551	Apologize first to colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. But just so you know, fellows, I've had social Democrats in mind, I've been urging them to support your amendment. I'm sorry they wouldn't listen to me. When the Slovenian People's Party proposes the exemption of agricultural land, remember when you were socially democratic in power, you took 16,000 state pensions. Who? Those who were over 65 years of age. How much did you take from them? How many thousands of euros did these people have in retirement? They're gonna tell me to shoot myself in the head when I talk this nonsense. Their pensions were below EUR 188.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u552	Mr. Pukšič, focus on the amendment and don't politicize it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u553	I'm focusing, Madam Vice President, on the amendment. You, too, come from the agricultural area and your farmers will tell you that it would be right if you voted in favour of the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, which says that agricultural land would be included in the exemption. If we gave agricultural land during the exemption, we could do more, produce food at home, feed our children and their kitchens in the local environment with homemade cabbage, with a homemade apple, in short, with home-grown food, not in the same way that we want to close what we have now. It's not right, it's not the right policy, it's the policy of Alenka Bratusek, who's taking this country to a funeral.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u554	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u555	Dear President, everything has its limits, we can endure a lot in the Social Democrats, we listen to all your statements, your explanations of vote, and we are aware that we are adopting a difficult law. But, please, you know for yourself that we can't replicate, that we can't answer and not somehow pull us by the tongue. The President, I ask that those who wish to challenge the Group of Members, with individuals in the Group of Members, once again warn. I think everything's fine and fine, but we're also colleagues, we're gonna have to work for a while, and I think it's right that we respect each other a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u556	Thank you very much. I accept your procedural proposal and I warn all Members and Members of Parliament, and I call on you to stick to the explanations of vote either on behalf of the Group of Members or on behalf of the Group of Members. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u557	It is true, Vice-President, that my procedural proposal is that the colleague who proposed it should say what he is proposing, and unfortunately he has not done so. I expected him to deny it. I told him what was wrong. Apparently, I've told the truth, and the truth is the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u558	Thank you very much. I very well understood Mr Matjaz Han's procedural proposal and I also understood his reason for mentioning them. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u559	Thank you so much for saying that. How full the mouth is when we talk about the importance of food, about maintaining and increasing self-sustainment. But you know what, fellow Members of the Coalition, I'm interested in those who come from the countryside. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u560	In a personal name, without being polarized, if not, I can stop you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u561	How can we look our parents in the eyes of neighbors who have agricultural land, I wonder. [[...]] I don't think that's acceptable. Yes, it is, Mrs. Potter, how will you look? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u562	Mr. Andrej Chuš has the floor. Please, don't be embalmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u563	Thank you for your word. I can see that the passions are getting a little heated, so I would still ask for some correctness from my colleagues and colleagues. If I tried to convince you earlier that it seemed good to support the proposal of the SDS Group and that the tax on real estate tax would be exempt, as proposed, from agricultural land and property for public use, I would now ask you to support the proposal to take agricultural land out of taxation. Once again, the real estate tax is exclusively intended to fill the budget and that does not seem fair to me. Especially because he will again unfairly burden the Slovenian countryside and farmers who have been doing a decent and fair job their whole lives. Due to the current situation and the new tax burdens unfortunately imposed by the countryside, young people are increasingly less motivated to work on farms and to preserve the Slovenian countryside. There has also been a lot of talk under this amendment about various subsidies and social assistance to our agriculture, but look, colleagues and colleagues, if we had a stimulating environment on the one hand and some normal measures in support of agriculture, we should not be discussing subsidies and social assistance at all. And let me finally quote Churchill: "Only two places exist where socialism works, in heaven where they don't need it, and in hell where they already have it." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u564	Is there still a wish? There's still a wish. I'm opening up an opportunity to explain my voice. I'm asking you to sign up. We have two explanations of vote reported. First Mr. Franz Bogovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u565	Thank you for your word. Those who own agricultural land for which we propose exemption in this amendment are also owners of housing properties. Usually, all these properties, which have poorer utilities, have been reduced by compensation for the building’s land and similar fate. Like all citizens and citizens, farmers will first receive an increase in the housing tax. Because there's less utilities in the countryside, this jump is going to be so much bigger. This is taxed on every hectare of agricultural land, up to EUR 20 up there is this limitation, forests and also what agricultural premises are needed for this activity to be carried out. These burdens will indeed go on farms with slightly more than the average area of Slovenian farms, which is 6.4 hectares. For one 10 hectare farm, these burdens, together with the residence and agricultural activity facility, will be between €200 and €300 from around €50 on average so far. This is a very large jump and, as I have already said, other benefits will be raised, so there will be a great burden on rural areas and those in rural areas who own agricultural land, either that is their constitutional activity or that they are only living in the agricultural area and they are also processing a smaller area of these agricultural land. I think it is right that you are taking such an amendment in this context that people who are already going to share the fate of increasing these real estate taxes will be taxed entirely on these surfaces because there has been no tax so far. After a good negotiation, if you get a new tax, you can't talk, so I'm proposing an exemption.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u566	Thank you very much. The next is Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u567	Thank you very much, Vice President, first of all, I welcome you to the presidency of today's assembly. Of course, I will support this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. The issue is that agricultural land is exempt from the property tax under the Real Estate Tax Act because they are already taxed once. These are the basic funds of Slovenian farmers, i.e. producers of Slovenian food. If it goes that way, colleagues and colleagues, we will only be able to promote Slovenian food in paintings because it will simply be no more. Young people won't decide to take over farms, and I don't know if we're good at it. On the other hand, I ask for your support in this amendment, I will be very honest, because of my cousin Minister Dejan Židan, who appeared to be at this year's Agra fair, the Ombudsman of Slovenian Agriculture. I regret to see him very rarely lately, but I believe that he is suffering in his heart somewhere because he must also, as Vice-President of the Slovenian Government, consent to the brutal Real Estate Tax Act. I support and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u568	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? So we are voting on the fourth amendment to Article 8. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. I'm opening the vote. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on Article 9 on Article 9, paragraph 1, of the first amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. Is there a desire to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? There is. Mr. Bogovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u569	It's about trying to fix the systemic error you're bringing into this law with this amendment. The point is that there is a real estate tax everywhere in Europe, a tax going into the budgets of local communities, municipalities. This refugee will be in Slovenia to share the tax; and another to avoid solving the crisis in Slovenia in a way that introduces a real estate tax. It is said that two non-systemic things and therefore we propose that this tax remain in Europe, that Slovenia remain a European state and with European standards, and that the local community recognise what it is meant to be. Even in the Slovenian regime of local self-government, which we will talk about tomorrow, I believe that even at a long committee meeting where we will talk about future organisation and the financing of local self-government, it would be very wise, even if it remained your way now, that for one year, as long as the law is in force, if it is enforced as you suggest, more means for municipalities to receive these funds. I believe that it would be right to agree quickly on what further powers would be given to municipalities, local self-government, because in 20 years of local self-government has proved that, at a municipal level, a lower level than this state level, it is also significantly better to manage this money and have great effects. On the other hand, there are projects where there are operational groups that can implement these projects that will have to spend a lot of European funds that could easily be spent at the local level over the next 2 years. In this way, if additional resources were to be provided, this could also be introduced. Otherwise, we basically wanted this half of the funds to remain at the same level as it has been so far, it is clear that the coalition has sworn that this level of funds will double so that 400 million euros of this tax will now be collected. Therefore, this amendment is still very up-to-date and I think we could manage much better in Slovenia, significantly better if this money came to the local community. I propose that the amendment to Article 9 proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, as we will do, support the rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u570	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Šircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u571	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes a similar amendment, but we will already support the Slovenian People's Party's Amendment for a reason, not only that it is a duty relating to property or property. real estate, the original source of funding for local communities, but because the destruction of local self-government also means a smaller democracy in the country. In fact, people exercise their interests in local communities, in congregations. There these interests are closest to them and it is easier to satisfy their interests at this level, much harder than at the republican level. And by taking away some of the original and original revenue from local communities, democracy in the country is declining. You can also look at the European Charter on Local Self-Government, you can look at development in individual European countries, you can look at development in Austria, Germany, France, Scandinavian countries; it is growing everywhere and developing a local community, only in Slovenia. Why, in Slovenia, Alenka Bratušek does not develop democratic standards and why democratic standards do not develop and provide local communities with a source of income, because only local mayors know what people's interests are, much more than at the republican level. Will someone from Župančičeva, Gregorčičeva be able to identify what needs they need in Slovene municipalities, in all Slovene municipalities from east to west, from north to south. No! No! Taking the source away from local communities and the source – and especially in 2014 with transitional provisions – means not only an attack on rural areas but also an attack on democracy in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u572	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u573	Thank you, Madam President. The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. We estimate that he is returning to this law at least for a European nuance. The amendment follows efforts to ensure that property tax revenues remain fully the income of local communities, which is in line with the dominant practice in the European Union. I've told you many times, it may have sounded cruel, so now, on the advice of my colleague Matjaž Han, I hold back because I respect him very much. I can say that I will no longer seek the pain of his fellow minister, even though in my heart it pains me, but it is really that this law, in its larger terms, "de facto" abolishes Slovenia's local self-government. "De jure" is not because we have stepped on Minister Virant's fingers in politics, opposition and profession, but now money is being taken from local communities. This means "de facto" braking in the development of local communities, not to say abolishing local communities. Therefore, it is imperative that we support this amendment and that we will do so in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u574	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? In your own name? I'll give you a chance to sign up. I'm asking you to sign up. We have six explanations of vote. As the first Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u575	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Slovenian People's Party is to support and I will support it myself. It gives this law in some way I don't know, Madam President, something can be said. [[…]] I think it's a congress.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u576	Here, you have an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u577	Okay. Taking money to the Slovenian countryside is in any way a crime over the vast majority of the Slovenian population. Whatever you are looking at, most people still live in the Slovenian countryside. They still live in, in principle, worse and less favourable conditions, in more difficult conditions than urban people. And the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party gives the opportunity to go to where the money is also collected. This is in the Slovenian countryside, where it is mostly collected. The current system that you are proposing in the coalition is such that the majority of the money is collected to the Slovenian countryside, I have said a percentage of my environment before, goes to bigger cities. Among them, most of the city, which has been called Ljubljana for more than 10 years, from 1994 to 2007, received more unfairly and at the expense of the Slovenian countryside. And that's what's wrong, and that's what's causing the Slovenian People's Party amendment to be worth my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u578	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u579	Colleagues and colleagues, if we accept this amendment, dividing the tax that this is the income of local communities and not the country, the country in the budget loses nothing. Nothing at all, as this difference reduces financial compensation to Slovenian municipalities. And in this way, many congregations become financially more independent. What control over money in the local community is significantly better: municipal saints, supervisory councils. With significantly less money, it goes through significantly more control mechanisms, through the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Public Procurement Control, the Court of Auditors, tax administrations and so on. In short, surveillance is better. What are the trends in Europe where more developed countries have lower unemployment, better quality of life, young employees, economic growth, investment, investment – all those that have divided GDP more regionally and locally. The smaller it remained at national level, the more it went to regional and local level, the more development is appropriate. The quality of life of citizens and citizens is better. Is it about improving the quality of life in our country? Do you have a responsibility to citizens and citizens? You who are in the coalition must have so much greater responsibility, so much more important. It's up to us to help you this way. And it's up to you whether you listen or not. Over 70,000 citizens and citizens have been quoted as saying so within one week. Support this amendment!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u580	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Fishich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u581	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Indeed, the proposal for a real estate tax law seems to be the theme, since today, with a few interruptions, almost everyone is involved and we are all present in the hall. We're all kind of fighting. You fight to get the marriage somehow under the roof, and we fight the amendments to make this marriage fair. Therefore, patience between the two sides is still important. We support the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party but not the law, as it threatens all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The law establishes in some way a quiet nationalisation of the Slovenian countryside. He's setting up an even bigger centralization. This is not a European comparable law, as tax collection leaves 100 % at the disposal of municipalities and local communities. We are proposing 50% of this law, which means that we are destroying municipalities and taking the money they have to invest. Instead of encouraging municipalities to make easier use of European funds, they should also have their share, because these funds are intended to be allocated to them and would then be easier to benefit from these European funds. Not to mention the municipal property tax, such as schools, kindergartens, cultural halls, which people built with voluntary work. There is really no need to change and abolish the congregations, as they will be alone in this way [[…]] [[turn off the microphone]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u582	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u583	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also support the amendment presented by the Slovenian People's Party in that the income from the property tax is the income of municipalities. Dear colleagues and colleagues! These are revenues in all normal European countries; they are the revenue of municipalities. The municipalities are those who, under the Law on Local Self-Government, have to manage a number of tasks in the field of municipal, education, social protection. That's what it takes. Therefore, this tax is a direct tax that the municipalities must receive and distribute and finance all these activities. This is absolutely necessary, and I think it makes sense. On the other hand, if this amendment does not support itself, it is an anti-European policy. Europe will start building a new regional policy between 2014 and 2020, where regions will join, looking for new solutions. This means the Slovenian part of Styria with Austria's Styria, part of Primorska with Furlania - Julian Krajina. This is where a whole series of projects will be built. You also take these funds away from the municipalities for a long period of time, even a variety of funds that could be used for wider European projects that would have a whole range of multi-applicable effects in the coming years against these municipalities. In particular, we want this tax to remain in the municipalities and the municipalities will make use of this tax, and they will use it rationally in some projects that will provide new jobs in the countryside in the coming years. I ask you once again to support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which I believe is normal, that Europe is comparable and that the one who will give local self-government the necessary resources for development is the decentralisation of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u584	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u585	In the European Charter on Local Self-Government, one of the main roles of the municipality is also protection against the will of the State. In some ways, local self-government is supposed to be the limitation of all-powerful state authorities and should therefore also have special revenues to decide on its own destiny. So far, the compensation for the use of building land has also worked. This law is totally contrary to the spirit of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, precisely in the work to which it relates. That is why I will certainly support the proposed amendment. What will be the final effect for the congregations if the law is adopted in its present form? The municipalities will have a bunch of properties that no one will want and with which the congregation will actually have nothing to do, so it will be poorer. People will be poorer because the country will take money from them and the congregation and waste it. However, the municipality will no longer be able to rule sovereignly and will not be able to function normally. This is in total contravention of the European Charter on Local Self-Government. It seems that the only task of the current government is to prove that Borut Pahor's government has not been the worst at the time, as they like to say, and manages to prove it every day. This marriage is indeed the best evidence in this part. In fact, he is subject to the law to direct the anger of people to the congregations and in fact to impoverish them, to take money from them, to put it in the country that he is going to waste, so he has not yet been subject to the law. You're the only one who can do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u586	Thank you very much. I'm asking all my colleagues to focus a little bit, it's a really long day, but I would still ask for some peace and let's listen. Jasmine Opec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u587	Thank you very much. Article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government sets out the tasks of municipalities, inter alia: the municipality shall promote educational, information, documentation, social and other activities in its territory. The municipality promotes social services, pre-school care, basic child and family protection, for the socially disadvantaged, the disabled and the elderly. Builds, maintains and regulates local public roads, public roads, recreational and other public areas in accordance with the law; regulates traffic in the municipality and performs the tasks of the municipal registrar. We could still list it. Even though the Law on Local Self - Administration lists the tasks of the congregations, new and new laws impose new and new obligations on them. Again and again, on the other hand, you are reducing funds for the financing of local communities. This policy can bring such a distance that the municipalities will no longer be able to carry out the basic tasks that they must carry out under the laws. And who's gonna pull the shortest? The parishioners don't. They come and go. But the people who live in the territory of these congregations remain. They'll pull the shortest. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u588	Thank you very much. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to the 9th Article of the Slovenian People's Party. In doing so, I must remind you that if an amendment is adopted under this point, the amendments under points 2 and 3 become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Explanation on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u589	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes that the tax revenues belong to the budget of the municipality in which the property is located. In addition, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also proposed that municipalities do not lose their sovereignty when they set tax rates, which means they can be increased or reduced. In other words, municipalities can identify and generate revenues to provide services in the field of health, education, social protection and child care at local level. This is the task of the congregations. This is not the Republic's job. By this law, and in particular with transitional provisions, the government of Alenka Bratušek wants complete centralisation. Not only by a transitional provision that specifically provides that the municipalities will receive only as much money as they have received from the compensation for the use of the building’s land, they will redistribute resources, public funds belonging to the municipalities. This means that the rural congregations will be at a disadvantage. These will be punished at the expense of municipalities which are more industrially powerful, the municipalities of the city. This means an attack on the countryside. We will not have even development in Slovenia. And even that uniformity that we've provided so far is going to go down. We don't even know why Alenka Bratusek is doing this. What are the reasons behind this law and this proposal? It's no different than trying to centralize money and trying to locate money primarily to the city's municipalities. This, however, means less development or a greater backlog of rural areas. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the revenues derived from this tax belong exclusively to the municipalities. That's the way it is all over the world, ladies and gentlemen. Look at the international comparisons that belong to property taxes and real estate. Local communities. Why is it different in Slovenia? Maybe only Alenka Bratushek knows that. I suggest you explain that to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u590	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? In your own name? I'm opening up an opportunity to apply for an explanation of vote. Four panellists have been reported. Ms Sonja Ramšak is the first to be reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u591	Thank you for your word. I will certainly support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In developed democracies, it is the custom that this is the original income of municipalities, not the state. Apparently, the government of Alenka Bratušek has decided to fill the state budget at the expense of all citizens and citizens and all those who could convert one euro into two euros, which are certainly municipalities. When you take investment funds with ZIPRO to the municipalities, I will also remind you that you are also taking their funds here to the municipalities. In this way, if the congregation had these funds, it could have triggered economic development. This could also stimulate and support the economy in its area. In this way, we see how the state works when the Ministry grants its minister state resources. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be right to support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, to act in the best interests of citizens and citizens and not to do so and to support what the state is doing to rent the property of the country for one euro, and then the tenants of this property give much further rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u592	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u593	Thank you very much. I'll support this amendment. The essence of the property tax is that it is the original revenue of the municipality, but this government has intended to introduce this tax only for the purpose of charging the state budget, because the first three years will be the revenue of the state budget. All three measures, including the abolition or reduction under Article 21 by half and the new law on the financing of municipalities, significantly reduce the funds to the municipalities. I will tell you the impact of this tax for the first 3 years for the Municipality of Metlika: they will collect 950,000 euros a year and return to the municipality will receive only 172 000 euros. This is a struggle of 18% collected from citizens in this municipality. The Radeče municipality, where Mr Han was a long-standing mayor, will collect almost half a million euros from its citizens and will receive only 77 000 euros back. What's different than rural poverty? I don't know how he can explain this to his citizens, but if we look at the others, the Municipality of Radeče will receive almost 10% less of the eligible spending that belongs to the municipality after all these measures; and the Municipality of Metlika 6.5%. I do not know how the investments will continue in these municipalities, as budgets are likely to have already been adopted and guaranteed for 2014 and will no longer be adopted after the adoption of all these laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u594	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u595	I have already asked you, President, only that the other lady was here to warn such debaters. Mr Lah, when you're so worried about the Radeče Municipality, I'm sorry that you weren't there when the paper shop went bankrupt, but you didn't have the power to press "yes" to get the money back then. Now you are moralizing in front of the entire Slovenian public that you are not ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u596	Looks like we're gonna have to go to zero tolerance at this late hour. I hope we still have so much sense that we can get this thing all the way. Procedurally, Mr. Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u597	President-in-Office, my procedural proposal is that in these debates, which are of high quality and relate exclusively to the articles we are talking about, you provide some measure of democracy that is normal for the entire democratic world. Going to zero, not allowing a debate on what you want to achieve is not democratic. And today we are talking about the congregations and the distribution of funds among the congregations. The municipality is more than 200 and, for example, Mr Lah has used data for two or three municipalities. One congregation, because it had only so much time, may be in the next discussion for another. The president, we are still talking about municipalities and the distribution of funds for the municipalities and that people will have less money at local level. For this reason, I ask you to ensure a democratic debate. Everyone can apply to these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u598	You can be sure that I will ensure a democratic debate, but certainly there are no more debates at this time, but we are talking about an explanation of vote. So there will be no debate, but explanations of vote will be and on your part depends on what they will be. I'm sure we can do it. Mr Franz Pukšič is next to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u599	I don't know if any of the ruling coalition would ask me to keep writing the sentences, but let them ring up to me, which you can talk about and you can't talk about anymore. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party and propose that other colleagues and colleagues support it. If I had mentioned earlier how much more in individual congregations would be paid for this property tax in a rural area of three to five times, it would be appropriate for these funds to remain in the congregations — if we had already done so or if you would have done so. And if these funds remain in the congregations, the congregations will either carry out or are close to carrying out a wastewater treatment program. This should be regulated by 2017. What's it gonna be then? There will be people who don't have built sewers, but they will pay for it because they won't clean the wastewater. By giving all this money back to the local community, we have not deprived the state budget, absolutely nothing. Less financial compensation will be necessary and nothing else will be needed. And if there is less financial compensation, municipalities also become financially more independent and more independent, more opportunities are available for further development. There is more room for rural land to be processed, for young people to stay at home, for jobs to be created; and this is a responsible policy. Colleagues and colleagues in the ruling coalition who have an argument of power, take and listen to our arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u600	Thank you. Mrs Irena Tavčar has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u601	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would like to explain my vote to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which says that the tax revenues belong to the budget of the municipality in which the property is located. In yesterday's debate, there were some opinions that those municipalities would be deprived of a high level of compensation for the use of building land. That is true, but these funds were used exclusively for use in these municipalities. These funds, which will now be collected from the tax, will be shared. Let me mention just a few of my local congregations: from my home municipality of Gorenja Vas – Poljane, 241,000 euros were collected last year for building land. Under this law, we will pay 922 000 euros in tax. So we're going to give the country half, that's 461,000 euros. On average, last year the household paid 120 euros in compensation for building land, while the tax would pay 461 euros. That's the average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u602	Thank you very much. Anyone else for explanations of vote? Opening login option. Four more explanations for the vote. Mr. Andrej Chuš, explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u603	I would like to say that I will support the proposed amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. I would also like to say a few things about the organisation of local self-government or this amendment. Last week, I held a press conference with several mayors from Lower Podravje, including the mayors of Podlodhnnik, Juršinci, Markovci, Dornava, Kidričevo. We all unitedly agreed that the existing level of organisation of local self-government, as well as the measures taken by the government of Alenka Bratušek, was strongly directed at the municipalities. Especially the smaller ones. And what the real estate tax proposes is financially destroyed by the municipalities. On the other hand, colleagues and colleagues, you forget that Slovenian municipalities, although we have many of them, are the only healthy core of local self-government in Slovenia. On the other hand, they maintain the Slovenian economy for at least a little longer to breathe, and they are the only ones investing in rural development and investment. I therefore fully support the proposed amendment of the SDS Group of Members, and I would like to say that, despite the government deliberately disrupting the development of the Slovenian countryside, the municipalities are not to blame for all the harmful decisions and consequences that have been taken by the Governments of the Transitional Left in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u604	Thank you very much. Mr. Fishič is next, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u605	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The rural congregations are losing out on this law. This means centralisation, even more centralisation of rural municipalities and all of this is supposed to be happening here in Ljubljana. If the municipalities received as much money as is mentioned here today as they are now receiving under the Law on Reimbursement for the Use of Building Lands, and if we refuse to do so, how much the municipalities will have to pay for their properties, such as kindergartens, schools, cultural halls and other municipalities, means very little money left to invest. That's why I don't think we're thinking this way. That is why I also support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u606	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Fox, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u607	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! If you are slowly destroying the economy and agriculture with high tax bases, it would be at least fair to leave this total amount to the management of the municipalities. The municipalities are the only ones that invest. And they don't just invest in roads, invest in schools, kindergartens, health care and so on. If we want young people not to flee Slovenia, to stay in the countryside – let the municipalities remain in them. The municipalities are now faced with the preparation of budgets for the coming years, and everyone is wondering what else the state will give them. Or just a mercy shot by an anti-minister for local self-government, which quietly destroys the Slovenian countryside or local self-government by means of this article. Can he expect any euro from Ljubljana? Sometimes they said all the money goes to Belgrade, now it'll be obvious again, all the money goes to Ljubljana. The municipalities are losing, that's a fact. Not only Radeče, my congregation, probably three quarters of the congregations, but also the capital. But the capital's lucky to have a law on the capital. In the area of local self-government, we will have only the Capital City Act and nothing more if we do not support this amendment. The reform of Minister Virant on how to delete or destroy local self-government is gradually being implemented. I object, so I will support the SDS amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u608	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u609	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment is an amendment that legitimizes centralisation. Even those incomes of congregations that were now originally congregational are becoming national. In the end, if this trend goes forward, only the capital will remain. I also ask myself when I look at the data that fellow Members have, how some people view these things, say the representatives of the Kočevje municipality, who will lose a million and 200 thousand euros after this programme. It is a municipality, district or administrative unit which has one of the highest unemployment rates in the country. She's gonna lose millions and 200 of revenue, have a burning school in the Old Church that can't be rebuilt for three quarters of a year. There are no resources to invest in business zones, but there are two MPs in the National Assembly, including the President of the National Assembly, in order to improve local infrastructure. It appears that this hegemony is so strong that it is simply unstoppable. And we're talking about whether or not we're going to rebuild the Kočevska track. With what and how? The concept that you advocate and enforce in the budget and the accompanying laws goes in the opposite direction. There is no source for peripheral areas. There is no source for municipalities on the periphery. And in this way it will be impossible to do anything except cover the holes that are being created in Taiwanese projects, banks and others. The Slovenian State Holding with the same projects will soon be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u610	Thank you very much. Anyone else? I'll open up an opportunity to explain my voice. We have two explanations. As the first Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u611	This amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which I support, is a literal copy of the first paragraph of Article 2 of the Law, which was drawn up by the Social Democrats on 15 July 2010: the revenue from the tax belongs to the budget of the municipality in which the property is located. I understand this anxiety that is happening with them, because today they will have to vote against their own conceptual solutions from 3 years ago. Unless they change their minds at the last minute, it might be good if colleague Han took 45 minutes off to consult on this. But look, the Slovenian Democratic Party didn't cook this problem with this law. You did it. And the information given in the explanation of this law is those of which colleague Lach spoke. Also concerning the congregation of Radeče, including the congregation of Kočevje and all others. It is not my colleague Lah's fault if the property tax that lies in the area of your municipalities, which your citizens will pay if this tax is to be diverted to the metropolis and other settlements. That's the problem with this marriage. So, Madam President, I wanted to be procedural earlier, but I'm just gonna be in the middle of this time that I have. At the door, I have been observing for some time a part of the team of ministers and ministers, who, I must say, is causing unrest in the Chamber, but above all disturbs the coalition MPs that they cannot listen collectively to the argument of the amendments. It would be right for them to sit in the bench to which they are intended and to wait for five or 10 hours to vote on the confidential vote, not to leave a secretary of state who, as I have said, is obviously the full burden of this coalition. Why do we have to do this because ministers are not porters to stand at the door, but represent the country and defend their opinions. And I would have expected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u612	Voice explanation, Mr. Blackach!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u613	I've allowed myself to continue on a procedural basis. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u614	You are, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u615	Because I'm not [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u616	Here you go. You've got a procedure. You need to wait one minute. In the meantime, I really urge once again that there be peace between explanations of voice in the Chamber so that we can carry out this part of the sitting without delay. Here you go, Mr. Blacky. Something's not right. Can we move on and then I'll give you procedural? Okay. So now I give my word to Mr Franz Breznik and then procedurally. Here's your explanation for the voice, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u617	Chairman, thank you very much. I must say that I was previously interrupted by the President of the National Assembly when I said that it would be okay if I were at least part of the ministers of the National Assembly. And he listened to me, which I thank him for. Thank you so much for coming to this debate. Once again, I would ask you to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the income from the property tax, so that this remains the income of the municipalities. Above all, it is important to look at our capital, where the budget is €313 million. Here are the headquarters of almost all state-owned companies, with the exception of rare exceptions, Post Slovenia and several directives. Here are all representations of most foreign companies, here are all representations of foreign countries, a whole range of multipliers, so the standard here is several times larger. Someone who's been driving around the Ljubljana bypass all day can't know what's going on in the countryside.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u618	Explanation of voice!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u619	This is an explanation for the vote because it is going back to the centralisation of this country if you impoverish the income of the municipalities. At the symbolic level, we were also visited by the Minister for Slovenians around the world. This will be the most mass ministry since most Slovenians will slowly leave our country's adultery. I can say that most of the countryside will be impoverished. There will be villages where only the spirit will live. Therefore, once again, I ask you to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, so that the revenues we receive from the real estate tax will remain in local self-government, that is to say, the property of the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u620	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u621	Thank you very much. It won't be purely procedural, but still.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u622	I'd like to see a procedural one, because you applied for a procedural one.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u623	The President, I would expect you to conduct this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Laughing in the hall]] That's why you're where you are. And not only during my short implementation in two minutes, as long as we have them available, but in previous performances, there were three of them, four ministers and a minister at the door, talking, talking about what they were talking about, and discussing what was wrong with the speaker. Not just the speaker, but they were in the way of the coalition MPs, who finally stopped using the white sentence after a few hours and started to advertise. And my aim was to allow the coalition Members to join the debate in peace and to in some way end this arrogance, which is happening not only at the level of individual ministers but also at the level of the leader of the largest parliamentary group. I believe he's very upset because he's constantly having a reaction to his ears, but don't let his excitement get to the work of the National Assembly. With regard to my debate, I just wanted to say that this amendment we are proposing is returning the intention of this tax back to where it belongs. It's a local tax. All around us and all over the world. This is a tax available to the congregations and wisely directed to the development of their local environment. Nowhere in the world is this tax used to conceal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u624	You're abusing the procedural proposal you've received.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u625	You will be able to talk about this when you conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and alert those who disturb the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u626	The meeting has been conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure since the beginning, regardless of who sits here. I would like to ask that we stick to Members, which is a procedural proposal, is a procedural proposal, which is an explanation of vote, is an explanation of vote. This is also up to you, not just the president. I'm asking for peace in the hall. If you're all right, we're going to the vote. Another explanation for the voice. So I'm opening up an opportunity to explain my voice. We have two explanations. As the first Mr. Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u627	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll be very brief. I will say this by supporting the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 8 for a few reasons. Now there's an explanation. Slovenian local government is the most successful project of Slovenian transition. In democratic countries it is guaranteed by the Constitution, in the Republic of Slovenia, of course, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, more specifically Article 9 and laws. In this way, the local self-government and the local community, as its institution, are placed in the full legal order and protected against unjustified State intervention. In the event of a conflict between the State and local communities, an independent body resolves such a dispute in a democratic manner: the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Administrative Court of RS, the Supreme Court of RS. And since the State must not interfere with the original income of local self-government, this amendment must be adopted. That's why I'm gonna back him up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u628	Thank you very much. I would really ask, even there at the exit door to calm down a bit, step into the hall or out, it is up to you, but for a better atmosphere it may be better. I think Mr Tanko had a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u629	Thank you very much, Madam President. That is exactly what I meant to suggest that the Minister and both ministers be invited to the place where the seat for the government is reserved. Everyone has their own seat, there's no need to be afraid, we don't have any interpolation yet. I don't understand this fear of showing up here, sitting down and watching the meeting if they've already set out to be monitoring the meeting of the National Assembly at this late hour. What happens when they are not in their seats, but they are sitting in parliamentary benches or at doors, is actually causing a lot of unrest because of what groups are gathering there. I don't know what they're debating, but they're hampering the explanations of vote in this law. And the next time this opportunity for the minister to come, and if he doesn't know where his place is, I'd like to ask the chairman to invite him to sit where he's booked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u630	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Your procedural proposal was implemented before you even published it. We continue with the explanation. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u631	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am convinced that this amendment must be followed because it is very important that this property tax remains the original income of local communities. This is because it is of the utmost importance that this country develops evenly in the future. The fact is that no one sitting here in Parliament wants a new and even stronger centralisation than we have received in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, there are many Members and Members of Parliament who come from the periphery. We see how our congregations are developing and how local self-government is developing, or how congregations are developing, which have their revenues, and on the basis of which they can also carry out activities that are still important for the marginal municipalities, the marginal part of our Republic of Slovenia, to develop as much as is appropriate. If the remaining income from this real estate law remained largely the revenue of the state budget, it would be that this local government or those municipalities would develop even more slowly, even less things would be regulated, even less done in these urban environments than they have been so far. When I came to Parliament in 2004, I spoke to a number of Members of Parliament at that time. There were a lot of them who didn't know there was a Kungota municipality in this country. And that's what I think is crucial. It is right for those Members and Members sitting in Parliament representing the local, rural environment to do everything to ensure that this tax remains the original income of our local communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u632	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We turn to the vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 9. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 3 becomes irrelevant. I'm starting the vote. There are 83 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move on to the third point and to the decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. I ask whether the desire to explain the vote is on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u633	Thank you very much. While colleagues and colleagues, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group is very similar to the previous amendment of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, the government and the current financial situation are slightly more at the hands of the government. As you know, New Slovenia - We strongly support Christian Democrats and we want strong local communities, strong municipalities, to support local self-government. In this amendment, we say that property tax revenues are divided into state and municipal budgets, up to 50 per cent. Okay. But such an arrangement is only appropriate for the duration of the resolution of the public financial crisis, so we say that we are going a little closer to the government with this understanding. That is to say, during the time of the resolution of the public financial crisis, when additional resources are needed in the state budget to cover the public financial deficit. I'm sure we all agree. Such a situation must be temporary as long as it is necessary to resolve it – and only to address the public financial crisis. The property tax must, in its essence, remain exclusively a municipal budget resource. Most Member States of the European Union have such arrangements. Therefore, failure to support the previous amendment by the coalition and if this amendment of New Slovenia is not supported by the coalition or anyone else, this means that the Real Estate Tax Act will be so much faster to non-Europeanism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u634	Thank you very much. There is still a wish on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u635	Thank you very much. The coalition parliamentary groups rejected the two amendments proposed in order to provide municipalities with a source of action and also a source of development – and this in its entirety. The new Slovenia proposes some compromise, which determines when the country comes out of the crisis, the revenues from this tax will entirely belong to the municipalities. After all, the New Slovenia proposal also sets a criterion when growth is 2.5% or more. This is also a promise to the municipalities that they can also draw up plans for greater investment for the period when Slovenia actually comes out of the crisis. And if the government of Alenka Bratusek is about the state coming out of the crisis, then it will demonstrate this will to support this amendment. And he should be supported by a coalition. Why? Here we would show that you really think and want Slovenia to come out of the crisis. When Slovenia comes out of the crisis, the municipalities will receive their original income. That is why we will support the amendment of New Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party and also invite you to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u636	Thank you. Anyone else on behalf of the parliamentary groups? There's still a wish. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u637	Thank you very much. We will also support the amendment of New Slovenia in the Slovenian People's Party. If the previous, or the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party or the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party were adopted, this would be irrelevant. As none of them have been accepted, the question is, or if this is accepted, I will say, there is some hope for citizens and citizens that the government coalition is serious and thinks at least in its mandate to achieve economic growth of 2.5%. If that were the case, that would mean the reverse image that was drawn by oz. wrote the Slovenian economy. Then foreign investment would probably also start, not as it is now that it has decreased by more than 85% this year. Employment would probably also start, which would have a positive effect on young people not to move out of the country anymore. According to the European Commission's forecast, which estimated the budget deficit by more than 3% lower than the government's forecast, the government coalition would, with the support of this amendment, deny the European Commission's forecasts. In a positive sense for the government coalition is this amendment of New Slovenia. We will support it in the Slovenian People's Party It is clear that the period 2014-2020, 2007-2013 has started to be very unsuccessful and will unfortunately be very unsuccessful to draw on European funds. In this way, however, the congregations would know in advance how much resources they would have from this title. At the same time, they would be significantly more financially independent at the time of economic growth.More positive indicators would be added to each other and would allow the further development of the Slovenian countryside, the whole infrastructure, both economic and social, and also the use of resources from the new European perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u638	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Maybe in your own name? I am opening the possibility of applying for a debate on my own behalf. We've got two registered. The first is Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u639	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief so it doesn't sound like I'm bothering you, but, uh, colleagues and colleagues. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u640	I ask for peace in the hall to explain my voice!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u641	Can I talk?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u642	Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u643	Thank you very much, Madam President, I know you have major problems with the coalition. It is that I somehow have hope, and as I initially said, this amendment goes in some way to the government, and in New Slovenia we understand the difficult public financial situation. Look, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition. By adopting this amendment, local communities, citizens and citizens would give at least some hope that not all money will be accumulated in Ljubljana, but that once you have read the amendment, once the gross domestic product growth exceeds 2.5%, everything will be normal again and that then what is European, this tax will be the original income of the local community. Is there something wrong with that? If you want, I can suggest 45 minutes of pause for reflection in the coalition, or else I will say I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u644	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u645	Thank you very much. It would be better if the previous amendment were supported, but this amendment is not bad, and this amendment is good and will receive my support. Now, I'm going to show you on the numbers because we're talking about local communities, collecting taxes and robbing the poor. That's what we're talking about in this amendment, and I'm going to give you some numbers. Where is the municipality of Podčetrek, most of you know. In the municipality of Podčetrek, 188 thousand euros have been collected so far. Newly, these people, economic operators and everyone else will pay 626 thousand. They will pay 231% more, but the municipality will not be left with 188 000, but 31% less, there are about 120, 125 000 euros. Even worse is the congregation of Kozje. There are no more operators there, because everything is gone, there is nothing. We know what's nothing. Taxes will therefore be paid exclusively, and only people and the congregation will pay what is available for school and there is no one else there. There's no other way. That's where they collected 63,000 euros in taxes. According to the new report, there will be 238,000 euros or 273% more. However, the municipalities will have 33% less and instead of €63 000 they will have just over €38 000. What's the difference? Let's tell these people. For the sake of the coalition, this difference is in Ljubljana, with Mr Jankovic and some other cities, because you have paid a service to the Ljubljanaers who elected you. I guess so. I am sorry that MEPs who come from rural areas do not see this. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u646	Thank you very much. There's still a desire to explain the voice. I'm opening the application. We've got two reports. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u647	The likelihood that, even if there were five mandates under this government, we would reach 2.5% of economic growth at annual level is extremely small or virtually non-existent. Nevertheless, I will support this amendment because it is going in the same direction as we are defending it ourselves, and it was rejected a little earlier in the vote. It's going in the direction that this tax remains a local tax because it's a local tax all around us. It is prescribed by the congregations, so it was also conceived in this law, which I have already mentioned many times today, from 2010. There was a minimum level of 0.03 and the right of municipalities to set specific rates for individual activities and areas according to local specification, as is the case with NUSZ today, where, according to local specificities, they take into account the position of each property, its destination and the development strategy of each local environment. That's not what this marriage is about. As a result, these imbalances will be even greater. In addition to what has already been mentioned, people who have property in a poor congregation will also be paying taxes to richer municipalities for this tax, and in some environments people will also pay 20 times as much tax as they do today because they have pursued certain goals and had relatively small burdens. That is why this tax is inadequate. This law is inadequate, as it is conceived, and therefore needs to be corrected by amendments at least in the part where we reach some normal relations and that the whole project does not collapse at the end stage of this government, because I am sure that if this law is not properly amended, it will return as a boomerang next year to this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u648	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u649	If the government coalition supports this amendment, it will not be affected at all, as it cannot possibly reach an economic growth rate of 2.5% at that time. It is essential that there is a greater chance that economic growth will begin to rise once this coalition has finished its work. Perhaps the ministers stood symbolically at the door earlier because they were apparently slowly leaving and were aware of the situation we were in. You know, against that tax, everyone in this country, as professional as people, is the only government caravan that goes here unfortunately. Nevertheless, this would have to be done — if nothing else, we would have given some hope. The hope of people in the Jursinci Congregation who today will collect 50,000 euros and who will receive 200 000 euros after this tax, at least 4 times as much. It is one – many such municipalities in this country – an outstanding agricultural municipality, a prominent wine-growing and fruit-oriented municipality. If nothing else, at least I would have hope that it would once be able to continue its construction, its development, with all that they have done, even because people have given up their property in favour of the infrastructure they have built, because they have realized that they have done not only themselves but also that they have kept young people in the countryside to encourage them in a way that they have a farm to surrender to. We're killing them with this marriage. At least this amendment, if you support it, will give some thin ray of hope.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u650	We are moving on to a decision on this amendment. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, which is the amendment to Article 9. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 49. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a decision on Article 10, the first point of this Article and the amendment of the coalition. That's why I'm asking if anyone has a wish to explain their voice. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u651	Given that we have supported the proposed SLS amendment under Article 8, it is only logical that we will reject the coalition amendment at Article 10 with the previous argument that I am not too long, and we will prepare a new third-reading amendment in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u652	Thank you very much. Anyone else? In your own name? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We decide on the amendment of the coalition to Article 10. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, who voted in favour of 2 votes against 53. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 53.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the second point and deciding on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to Article 10. To explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u653	Madam President, thank you for the floor. This amendment refers mostly to Article 5 of this Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that it is one of the very important amendments that this law would say, at least a little try to balance. We could see in the public that the type of first-class property in Slovenia is assessed at ridiculously low prices. Therefore, this amendment proposes that, in the case of the sale of property or inheritance, in the event that the selling price deviates from the Gurs estimate, the owner should reimburse the State the difference in the tax. In the event that the coalition rejects our proposal, it is likely that this matter could also be interpreted in the sense that someone directly damages the budget and allows a third party to benefit from it. I would rather expect such a proposal to be proposed by a coalition, or the Ministry of Finance, because with this amendment, we are insurmounting the possibility that the one who has a ridiculously rated property – we have seen that these cases are quite significant – we are sort of balancing this. In view of everything that we can read now, at least in the media, that the government will be preparing something with regard to the change in Gurs and the possibility of some complaints, I don't think you'll be able to change this item in Gurs so that it won't be your excuse. Once again, in the event that the coalition rejects our amendment, I would be able to interpret that someone directly damages the budget and provides a tangible benefit to the third party, because otherwise we cannot imagine that such a proposal could be rejected. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support such an amendment, because it is in our interest to take care of the stability of public finances, and we are not against the fact that we are damaging the budget by laws and that we are providing a third party with a wealth benefit. I think there are a lot of these cases in Slovenia. I hope that there will also be reason between Members and Members of the coalition and that this article will be supported. Otherwise, I suggest you take a break, reconsider before the vote and decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u654	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? In your own name? Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u655	Thank you for your word. I would like to further underpin the debate held by my colleague Marko. I am absolutely in favour of the amendment also because of all the debates you had on Article 5, when in some ways you did not want it to be possible to correct those who have over-estimated properties, which would be fair. Therefore, I appeal that, at least in the case of undervalued real estates, where it will be very difficult to determine at a given time, whether this price is in some way valid when transport takes place with these properties takes place, and in some other procedures which may take place with this property, they should add to the security guard, who will still refund to the State budget the part of the tax that someone could thus conceal – of course with the help of an incorrect or incorrect Gurs’s assessment. I think this fuse, as the predecessor has already said, is good. It brings additional revenue for the budget, but it also brings more justice to the law itself. It will indeed be incomprehensible if the coalition of our well-intentioned proposal does not take account of it. It is not about burdening someone now, but that, in the case of sale or any other legal act, this property actually determines the value, and in the event that this value would be substantially undervalued, this tax will also be paid to the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u656	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 10. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 11 and Point 1, this is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Mr. Horvath, you have the floor to explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u657	Thank you very much. New Slovenia takes care of mainly larger Slovenian families. With this amendment, we want to make some relief for taxpayers who, according to their household, have underage children, foster parents, adoptive parents, stepdaughters in their homes. We propose that for each of the minors the tax rate should be reduced by 0.02 percentage points. What does that mean? A family living in one house will today pay a tax per house at a rate of 0.15%, as proposed by law. If she has three minors, she will pay a 0,06% lower tax. The tax rate will fall from 0.15% to 0.09%. I think, colleagues and colleagues, that we can be so lenient and compassionate about Slovenian families, especially the larger ones, and that it is unlikely that even in the state budget we will know if we vote here on this amendment and express some kindness to Slovenian families. Unless, of course, someone thinks we have too many and we don't like them. I'm asking for your support. It is clear that the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u658	Thank you very much. Mr Šircel is also on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u659	Thank you very much. We are now talking about amendments relating to the social component of this law. To this article, the Slovenian Democratic Party has also tabled an amendment on the recognition of special property tax exemptions if children or dependent members reside in them. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, also because coalition parties do not support any amendment proposed by the opposition, we will support the amendment of New Slovenia, especially because this tax does not have any provisions that would set social policy in that country or that would set family policy. We know that all taxes, even value added taxes, have within them a component of social or family policy. Social policies where, for example, they reduce the tax rate of certain services or certain goods. This tax is intended exclusively for fiscal purposes, as it does not take into account the social and family situation in the country. In other words, each tax should also take into account the actual material situation of people, and it is usually more expensive for families with more children to have a higher cost of living so that children can study so that children can become mature. This is why we support the inclusion of social or family policy in the law, and this will be brought by one of the following amendments if you support it. I don't think there's gonna be a big fiscal impact if big family benefits are included in the law. Such an amendment also has a social nature. We will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u660	Thank you very much. Mr Bogovic also, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u661	In Article 11, we also tabled an amendment with a family component in the Slovenian People's Party. In addition to the fact that this article and this amendment seek to establish these facilities, which have been in different ways in each amendment, it is also a matter of respect for the need for more family members to have more space. Taxes have already allowed certain reliefs in the past, exemptions to a certain area because of the fact that there was a family in these facilities, there were people, and in this way, if we give, as we have suggested, for every child 12% of the relief, we do not want those who have larger families to pay more children because they also need more space. I think it is right that in Slovenia we are aware that Slovenia will be more beautiful if there are more children in Slovenia and that those who have children will therefore not be particularly taxed through this law in this way, with additional space needs. This law tries to save, if you want, black construction, trying to save empty apartments, so I think it would be worth it and right, fair, fair, respectable, and in some ways the possibility of a better life for families with multiple children. I therefore suggest you support one of these three amendments. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support all three because I believe that there will be no support on the other side so that we can stop voting at the first amendment, because the other two amendments would then be irrelevant. I support and suggest that the rest of you also support these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u662	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to do it on their behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members? I'll give you a chance to sign up. I'm asking you to sign up. We have four explanations of vote reported. The first is Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u663	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I announce my support for the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. As has already been said by a colleague of Shirtzl, this law is not social, and it is right to support a proposal that somehow remedys what you break with this law – a social and just state. You support the rich, you give to them, while you forget those who barely survive today. Only part of this can be returned in a way that enables families to benefit their children, similar to income, but this is another thing. I will absolutely support this amendment. I would also like to support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which somehow expands this set of entitlements. All those who like to explain that you are socially oriented, that the policy of the government of Alenka Bratušek is social, I must say that you have greatly disappointed me, and I hope you will support the amendment of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u664	Ms Romana Tomc is next reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u665	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support the amendment. In principle, I advocate a policy that there are as few exceptions in tax laws as possible. For exceptions break some general rules and are often the result of lobbying pressures. I've talked about why this is so before in the previous amendments. But the government has decided to make some exceptions to the marriage. The question immediately arises why they make these exceptions and why they don't make any other exceptions. Therefore, in our parliamentary group, we propose to introduce a further provision allowing young families to pay lower taxes. Not that young families with multiple children will be exempt from tax, but that they will pay a lower tax. However, it is at the end of this article, because it says that reliefs are mutually exclusive. The debtor will be able to benefit from the first, second or third relief, but not all of them. In doing so, I would only point out that the Ministry of Labour, with every law or amendment to the law it introduces into Parliament, seeks to improve family policy somehow and introduces ever-new subsidies, reliefs for young families with multiple children. Putting one such component into this real estate law, especially because young families, as you all warn, find it extremely difficult to get to the apartment — and when they get to their apartment, we will tax them further. It is right that they receive relief.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u666	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u667	Thank you very much. In my own name again: I will support this amendment of New Slovenia. We thought about where to add at least a fraction of that social note or social component to the article in this law, and when we saw that the proposed article 11 specifically focused on tax reduction for special categories of taxpayers, we said: O.K., special categories of debtors are also larger families. In case you went to make calculations, what absolute figures would this reduced rate we are proposing for large families bring in in terms of the reduction of house taxes? It is simply that we give a message to larger families, that the legislator, the National Assembly, thinks of them at this moment. That's why it makes sense – I believe that, colleagues and colleagues, you don't all come from a high society, that you come from average families. There are probably most of us who know what caring for the existence of a family with 3, 4, 5 children means. Let us give this signal to these families today and support the amendment of New Slovenia. I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u668	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u669	Thank you for your word. I'll support these amendments myself. It is a complement to the reliefs that you already foresee in this law. However, we have foreseen, in addition to the families that our colleagues have talked about, a relief comparable to European comparable laws that tax property. When you keep calling on the fact that we have had some anachronism so far and that we are now applying European comparable laws, it would be right to look at the benefits that other laws in other countries bring to the real estate sphere. Interestingly, one of the facilities, especially in the Alpine area, is comparable to which we can compare, also provides facilities for altitude households, altitude properties, and for properties that are over a thousand metres above sea level. There will be no fear that these properties are very large in Slovenia. We have foreseen that in this case, such as European practice, this tax burden is halved. If anyone thinks there's a Kranjska Gora in this circle, I can comfort him that it's not there. But there are quite a few farms in Pohorje and probably in Idrija-Cerkljanski, where very large buildings with large surfaces have access problems and probably have significantly more costs than all other objects in the valleys. We would do well to think of the problems of such locations when applying such a tax. It would therefore be right to support this amendment, which is summarised in the European legislation, from the comparable laws available in the European space. I know you're laughing, but it's probably easier to walk in Ljubljana in the middle of winter than it is to walk over a thousand meters above sea level and create in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u670	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm opening applications. We've got three more applications. The first is Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u671	Thank you, Madam President. In this law we have allowed ourselves certain exemptions, so it is not surprising that some of us have also proposed certain groups for which we propose a reduction of the tax. When the coalition proposes exemptions for the socially weak, for the disabled, such amendments go a little further. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that young families or families with more than three children deserve a tax reduction for special categories of taxpayers, i.e. 50%. As one of the predecessors has already said, it is not a matter of lowering the tax on one another, but, as our amendment assures us, the debtor enforces an option that is more favourable for him. As one of the predecessors said, the taxpayers, whose property lies at more than a thousand metres above sea level, are reduced by the tax. We think that's right. There has been a lot in this mandate, as well as in previous speeches on mountain farms, how hard life is there, and we believe that this amendment would make it an additional plus in life, in one way or another, because of its living conditions. I believe the coalition will listen to at least one of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u672	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrey Chush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u673	Thank you for your word. I will also support the proposed amendment, not only because it is an amendment from the SDS Group, but also because all research in the field of youth in the Republic of Slovenia in recent years has shown that the number of young people is declining. The data to triple the number of older adults per young person by 2050 is more than alarming. Therefore, it seems to me that we should support and burden larger families, more than on the spot. I hope that it is reasonable that today young people cannot plan their future in the Republic of Slovenia, especially because of the hopeless policy of the government of Alenka Bratušek, which is innovative mainly in the inventions of new and new burdens, new taxes and taxes, which must be paid mainly by those individuals and those groups who are not to blame. I therefore call on Members and Members: let us support larger families, let us encourage young people to stay at home and to plan their future in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u674	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u675	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the debate so far, it is more than obvious that the coalition has decided not to support our amendments. The Coalition has apparently also decided to adopt this real estate tax law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u676	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u677	Yeah, sure. Something bothers me in the first place. I'm disturbed by this social attitude of the parties that make up the coalition. I am disturbed by the defence of family policy by the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Dr. Kopač Mrak. Whenever I listened to her, whenever I watched her performances, she talks about family politics. It's not the same thing as whether there are two people living on 80 square meters or if there are 8 or 9 people living there. This exists in Slovenia. Believe me, those families that have lots of kids [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u678	Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u679	in most of them, they live in smaller apartments. Please don't talk about social attitudes, family policy and so on unless you support this amendment proposed by New Slovenia and then the Slovenian Democratic Party. If you don't support this – I call it one big scheming, although I believe that at the moment you are all suffering in the coalition. Few people in the coalition or a member of the coalition agree with this law, but you obviously have a command to support this law. Think again, we are talking about large families, and I think it is right that our amendment or amendment of New Slovenia be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u680	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to explain the voice? More. Opening login option. Three more explanations for the voice. The first word is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u681	Thank you for your word. I will support our amendment. Many times we say that the young world stands, and we were a few years ago happy to hear the news when the nativity rose. We have recorded negative trends all the time and each year the number of births has declined. When some things were settled in the country, it was evident that the birth rate had been increased or that we were very happy. That is why we have always led a positive family policy in the SDS. Now, with new and new taxes, you are punishing families again, punishing those who have more children, even though this is our future. One of my acquaintances says that every Slovenian family must have three children, one for Mommy, one for the obvious and one for the country, but the last few years have not been the case. Instead of being friendly to such families, families with multiple children who also need a larger apartment, more room to develop as we wish, and someday citizens who will pay taxes and take care of their parents and everything – you do not want to follow this, so I suggest you support our amendment. I also agree that a reduction in tax should also be made to taxpayers whose property lies at more than a thousand metres above sea level, because there are less favourable conditions. We know mountain farms that remain empty, abandoned, undermine, and I also support this solution, which we are proposing with our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u682	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u683	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will gladly support the amendment of New Slovenia, because I am absolutely convinced that everything that is in our power must be done, that we create conditions for large families, that we create conditions for fertility, that we create conditions for young people, that we create opportunities for young people to develop, have opportunities, and that the conditions that state policy must create will be such that they will be interesting or that they will be of such quality that people will have an interest in creating large families. We need young people in Slovenia. We are a small country, and we know where our old story is going, so it is of utmost importance that we make sure that we are fully engaged everywhere, on all lines, and that we create the conditions for these young families to have better conditions than smaller families, because they have significantly more costs and all of this to survive. I think one of these problems is property tax, taxation and so on. If we create the right conditions for this, I am sure that these young families will have more children, increase their families, which I think is still important for Slovenia. At the same time, in addition to what I have just said, I would like to stress only this: it is amazing: a few seconds ago, I saw one photograph where four ministers, including the minister, are practically sitting in the lobby of Parliament, and we are working in Parliament at this hour and we are fully engaged to help Slovenian families. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u684	Explanation of voice!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u685	Yeah, that's exactly it. That's it. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u686	It was an abuse of voice. Mr. Han, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u687	Third time I'm warning you. I know, ladies and gentlemen of the SDS, that you are thrilled to have received a tweet 25 minutes ago in which Janez Janša praised you for how well you perform, how you fight for the standard. That's clear to me, and that you've got every single bee for the performances, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u688	I ask for peace in the hall to hear a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u689	I'd like to ask Mr. Pojbich not to offend us. That's all I'd ask. I believe they're thrilled, the boss commended them, but that doesn't affect us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u690	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. Mr. Pojbič, do you have any other procedural proposals? Here you go. You have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u691	Madam Vice President! It is amazing that the leader of the Social Democrats Group allows himself such a comment. What I said – if any Slovenian in the Republic of Slovenia sees this, they cry. You guys let me criticize myself for saying something that's not true, that's not right and that's contrary to some principles and so on. The fact is what I said. It is distasteful, extremely irresponsible and shameful that the four ministers lie in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u692	Mr. Pojbič, please choose your words too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u693	Madam Vice-President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u694	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Mr. Pojbich, move on to a procedural proposal!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u695	Madam Vice-President, I ask you very much to invite colleagues from Positive Slovenia who are in Parliament to wake up their ministers and ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u696	I think we've reached a point where one and the other have turned rhetoric into an inappropriate rhetoric of the National Assembly. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Mr Jerovšek is next reported for explanation of vote. Please, Mr Jerovšek, explain your voice. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u697	Thank you very much. On the subject of these amendments, practically everything has been said. I will also use my explanation to say that virtually all speaking Members have ever heard you advocate the rights of children and the family. For this reason, I will not kindly ask you to support this amendment or one of these amendments, but I use this to call for your duty to vote for an amendment. That's a moral order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u698	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u699	Thank you very much. In view of our reference to the rights of children and families, I would ask you to conclude as soon as possible because we have young ones. Our mothers have children at home who need mothers who also need a proper family environment. Please don't delay and don't make any more scenes here, how much you care about your families. Listen, with taxes, we can assure families that they will live normally, that children will be educated to have social security. Not here to make a scene and a very funny Member of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u700	Thank you very much. We all want this meeting to continue smoothly. Mr. Tanko, do you have a completely different procedural proposal? A voice explanation, Mr. Tanko? Is there still a desire to explain the voice? I'll open the application. Please sign up for an explanation of vote. We explain the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u701	Thank you so much for saying that. Family policy and the attitude to this is created by the laws we adopt for a longer period. What bothers you at this moment is a unique event that we must carry out in the National Assembly because the coalition has put the matter this way. But if you want some more lasting solutions, systemic solutions, then there are laws and amendments that we accept. You have some amendments in front of you in this article that allow for a good family environment that allows families with multiple children to receive certain benefits from the property tax. Or there are good conditions for those who live in certain circumstances, such as a thousand feet [1,000 m] high. Here are the measures that need to be supported if we really care about what you're talking about. There is no need for any procedural proposals, no big words. If we want to do something for family policy, then it is enough to press the key — it can be completely quiet. There's nothing to be loud or to be accused of. I think it's appropriate for those who have more children to lower the property tax to do so. This is a small measure between all of these that could help or help these families. Like those who live under unpleasant circumstances, on high-rise farms and so on. For everything else, it's a waste of words.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u702	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to explain your voice? If we don't, we'll go to the vote. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 11. If the amendment is adopted under this point, the amendments under points 4 and 5 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to point 2 or to the amendment of the coalition to article 11. I ask if anyone may wish to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members. In your own name? No, that's why we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to point 3 or to the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I'm asking if anyone wants a word. Mr Bogovic wants to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u703	Very briefly. This amendment increases the tax reduction for those families who have a family member who needs a wheelchair. The proposer envisaged a 30% relief. In the Group of Members, we firmly believe that this relief should be greater than it is for those who are recipients of social assistance eligible for 50% relief. We therefore propose that this amendment is 80 % for families in which one of the family members is confined to a wheelchair. I think this amendment is very appropriate. Surely we all know such a family, and we know what this means, even how much more the cost of regulating apartments and the like is. That's why I think we'd at least help these families a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u704	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogovich. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u705	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, which means lower taxation for those families where the disabled person is. We believe that this amendment is also part of a social policy that must be included in this law. After all, special arrangements apply to persons with disabilities in the Income Act and are also applicable in certain other current laws. We believe that such arrangements should also be included in the real estate tax law. The fact is that each tax policy leads on the one hand to actually collect some money from the tax, taking into account the specific situation of taxpayers. They can be large families, they can be disabled people, they can be special in the family. Tax legislation must also include such articles, such solutions in the legislation itself. Tax legislation does not only have a fiscal impact, it also has an economic, economic, social, environmental impact and many others. Unfortunately, this legislation, proposed by the government of Alenka Bratušek, has a purely fiscal character – in the face of the major systemic errors that this legislation also has. As a result, we will support the amendment, which reduces the taxation of those who are disabled, who need help in need of solidarity. After all, we're a social state, and that's what the constitution says. The constitutional regime must provide for the social state, and this must be implemented through the laws establishing the social component. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the social state must be created not only at the declaration level but also in fact. That's why we're going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u706	Thank you very much, Mr. Shircel. On behalf of the delegation, Mr. Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u707	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I announce my support for the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors to the amendment written by colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party. At the same time, I really regret that the amendment of New Slovenia was rejected a few minutes ago. You were afraid, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, to leave a large family with, say, three children, 40 euros. That's what this is all about. You couldn't leave 40 euros to a family with three children. From now on, I really don't understand anything anymore, and I'm sorry that my feelings betray me. I'll make a dot here.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u708	Anyone else want an explanation in their own name? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the fourth amendment to this article, tabled by the SDS Group. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u709	Thank you very much. As I have already mentioned, the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to this Article, namely, that the tax should be reduced by half to those who have more than three children. This amendment is very simple. The tax administration can obtain data on the number of family members in the individual family and thus provide a social or family component in this law. If we are talking about a social state, then the social state must express itself in individual rules, especially in tax rules, and also in this law that we are talking about today. For this reason, I propose that this amendment be supported, especially because, I understand, all the parties in this House have supported and supported a specific social policy. The tax should also be collected in the light of the specific situation in the family and given the material situation in the individual family. In addition, the Slovenian Democratic Party also proposes a lower property tax, which lies at a height of more than a thousand metres, mainly because life is more difficult at this height and above that height. After all, this is also recognised if you want, European rules, by the people of the European Commission, because such farms are given special subsidies in order to keep these farms safe, so that they also develop and that people live there more easily. Given that you have also highlighted the importance of these farms in other debates and have stressed the specific environmental and agricultural policy, I believe that this amendment will be unitedly supported by all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u710	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u711	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This is a very carefully written amendment. That is why he will receive our support, the support of the New Slovenia Group. For we claim that if it is a good family policy, it is also a good demographic picture of a country. It is normal that this should also be of interest to the country if the demographic indicators are better if our population grows in other words. Through the prism of the country, it also means that the number of taxpayers is increasing, and this should be in the interest of the country, but obviously not. But now I am really slowly losing hope that any such amendments that improve family policy, as far as this law is concerned to improve, and which are proposed by the opposition, will be supported. We will support this amendment. It is good, and I hope that at least some voice from the coalition will think as much as we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u712	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u713	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! If we have taken citizens and citizens twice as many as by swinging one hand, and before I have even talked about numbers, in some municipalities several times more – of course people, mainly rural ones, who have fewer – would be willing to give this relief in family policy at least in this case. You won't believe it, but people are obviously following me, and one wrote to me, "If you reject this amendment, then it turns out that those parties who have a social word on their behalf are not social parties, but they're just exploiting it." We'd do well to support this. Perhaps some of the wisdom that was expressed years ago by the blessed Anton Martin Slomšk: "In the word of truth, in the act of justice." Because you often like to speak with beautiful words, especially in the government coalition, by doing this amendment prove that you care about family policy if you are not already involved with all other subjects of this society.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u714	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u715	Thank you so much for saying that. One - parent families are not the only ones who deserve attention in this country. Certainly, those who need special attention include large families, families with three or more children, and thus relatively greater difficulties in providing living conditions. I think it makes sense for families with three or more children to be reduced by at least half the property tax they cut in their pocket. Given that the income base is also the basis in this case for this relief to be recognised, it is neither technical nor substantive nor any other reason for not allowing this to happen. It also seems to me that if we want to keep the Slovenian countryside inhabited, those who have more difficult living conditions – these are the highlands – should be given a measure of relief or stimulation. If you have already substantially raised their taxes, at least give them some relief on living conditions. I think it's very unreasonable if we don't allow this relief to one group or the other. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u716	Thank you very much. Earlier, several wishes were expressed for the debate, so I am opening up the possibility to apply for explanations of vote on my behalf. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u717	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I will support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party for the reason that demographic indicators in the Republic of Slovenia are extremely unfavourable. The country must lead the family policy towards having more children in the family, and this is precisely what the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing in this direction. Families with more than three children should be exempt from 50 % of the property tax. The country with ever-new taxes has a strong impact on the social situation of families, and all these amendments of the opposition to this article show that the opposition has a great deal of respect for family policy and for the social hardships of the people. It is important that we also make it easier for those who live on high-rise farms or in high-rise areas over a thousand metres, because access to their properties is usually difficult. In this way, the state can also influence the possibility that another family or individual will choose to live at these altitudes, and thus promote tourism on mountain farms. As I have already foretold, I will definitely support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u718	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u719	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I'll support the amendment. But you have to read it. Why? Because people can hear it. It doesn't make any sense, does it? Taxpayers with more than three children would be reduced by 50%, and those living at thousands of metres or more, by 50%. I can imagine why. I lived under the Horn myself, where you all go skiing today, and I had to go to school about five kilometers on foot. I can imagine life like this, so it's perfectly normal for me to support this amendment. This is also a logical matter if we want to do something for more families and if we want to do something for the countryside. That's why my support for this amendment. And don't think the media isn't following us. The media is watching us, and here I am reading a report to discuss Janez Janša’s bee. No, I'm not talking about Janez Janša's bee. I'm talking about supporting this amendment. By the way, in the National Assembly, lying ministers are not yet in the media, even though they are lying there. If someone from our government team would do that, in five minutes, we'd all be in all electronic media and the next day ex-ministers. You see, this is the problem with Slovenian media space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u720	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. Before that, I'm sorry. I didn't see you. [[...]] I'm opening the application. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u721	It's understandable you missed me. It is very difficult to monitor the meeting during this creaking and snorkeling in government dishes. However, it is in some way an important amendment, which I will support, which speaks of certain specifics that would certainly be easier to apply if the concept of the law, which was passed by the Social Democrats three years ago with the law which I have already mentioned, was adopted on 15 July, with the State Secretary Mrs Mateja Vraničar being also signed as a supporter and all these particulars would be regulated by local communities, municipalities, as there is much more. As far as large families are concerned, tax policy is familiar with the same as what we are proposing, even with some other burdens. We know such an admission to a tax on motor vehicles for larger families. The efforts at the new part were unsuccessful. Some countries also know a different approach on this segment, and it is normal to relieve themselves of the tax burden on real estate, those who use this property more for their own purposes. It would be most normal for the first real estate, the one in which people live, to be untaxed, as it is arranged in many countries around us. Such an approach is taken by countries that give something to their people and their people who want to strengthen and support their people. This cannot be expected under this government because it is working against its own people and against its own people. It is also important to support this amendment because, in at least one part, it alleviates the injustices that will occur when these large, rich malls pay hundreds of thousands of euros less than that tax, and here all these large families and those with poorer management conditions will pay significantly more. This is unfair and unfair. It would be a small correction if this amendment were confirmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u722	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u723	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, in a personal name. The reason for my support for this amendment is the content itself, and also, colleagues and colleagues, we all received, certainly you from the coalition, a lot of letters from families, from various societies, institutions and I do not know what other associations that work in support and fight for families, especially for larger ones. They write us a lot. I don't know, I guess we don't all have such a hard heart to throw those letters in a basket. Colleagues and colleagues, I somehow regret that families do not have as strong unions as we know them in Slovenia. They are so powerful that they run this country, and it's interesting that these unionists now that we're accepting this tax, which is going to burden everything that's going to stop this country, are nowhere. That's amazing. It is true that the hour is late and that at this time the gentlemen are probably asleep, but interestingly enough, they are nowhere to be found. This means that they approve of these new and new taxes which the government of Alenka Bratušek accepts for the Slovenian people, for citizens and citizens, for the economy and everything. But this amendment is about families. I ask you once again, although somehow I am in violation of the rules of procedure and I apologize for your support. It is time to make this marriage at least a little more social, a little more family and a little less cold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u724	Thank you very much. Can we vote or does anyone else want to explain their vote? Before voting, I inform you that if this amendment is adopted, this amendment becomes irrelevant under point 5. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also discussing the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Franz Pukšič, probably on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u725	Thank you for your word. If you have rejected the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that you vote in favour of the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, that the indicators of the economic hour begin to change – not now, but somewhere in the future. For the first child, the tax base is reduced by 12 % and for each of the next children by 12 %. We took this from the Income Act, so it's all the way it's supposed to be. The fact is that each child counts, and it would be appropriate to reduce the property tax for each child. In fact, every child needs his own space. In order to give a positive signal to families with multiple children, however, it is appropriate that this amendment be accepted. The fact is, taxes are a defeat of the ruling policy. That means if you rule and raise taxes or rule by raising taxes, you admit you're not capable of having any other instruments, like Luksic said it's four times easier to collect taxes than anything else to do. If the president said that to some orthodox right party, the person would have somehow imagined that the President of the Social Democrats would say that, but it hurts, and then it is, as previously stated in the text, that some have only the name Social Democrats on their behalf, but they have no sense, let alone an understanding. Since I was gone before, and I am sorry that I was missing at the time that you did not support the tax reduction for the disabled – I do not know what they are guilty of being so taxed. They are guilty of being alive, and the family is obviously guilty of having more children, and they will pay the same as those who do not. It should be borne in mind that Slovenian families are not in favour of saving Taiwan's investments, and my dears, billions will go to cover a hole in banks. It's only right that you support this amendment. We'll be at the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u726	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Here you are, Mr. Shircelj, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u727	Thank you very much. All these articles speak of family and social policy, and, given the well-respected coalition, that you have rejected all amendments relating to family and social policy, I expect you to take a look at it and that you will probably have to include tax solutions in this law. This is for the benefit of people, and if it is for the benefit of people, I think that, even if this is a minimum tax drop, it is necessary to pursue a consistent policy and to ensure consistently that Slovenia is a social state. We will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u728	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we vote. Excuse me. I'll take special care of that side. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u729	I don't mind. You need to look to the left, because she's more restless, and that's why I understand you. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u730	Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u731	A colleague who had just stopped by couldn't get in touch with his skin, so it's clear who's restless. The most restless are now gone and the legs are resting on the chairs. At least that's an advantage for this debate. This amendment is important. It is important because we have to ask ourselves, and that is why I support it, too, how this area is now regulated. As we know, so far, all those who have made new arrangements for their homes, houses, dwellings have not paid compensation for five years. For 5 years, NUSZ payments were exempt. It's gone now. All these young families, all those who are new to each other's family relationships, all those who somehow manage their nests, if you want to get on their feet, will be hit immediately. The moment they move in. This is why this amendment is so important that at least those who are part of a family policy – you should have it in this country, but you obviously do not have it, which is absurd, especially because you are declaring yourself a left-wing government – are supported. We can support them by lowering these burdens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that a comprehensive solution should be put in place to enable all those who have solved these housing problems themselves in one way or another to reduce the burden on them. But, as we said at the outset, according to the concept of law, since it is prevented from being formed by congregations or local communities, these minimum matters must be regulated in this law, and we can only arrange them by adopting amendments. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u732	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u733	Thank you very much. For 10 hours or more, we break through this law, and you say that at each amendment, we point out that the solutions to this law are not righteous, that they were not just in the burdens, in those who are affected by this tax, and that they are not righteous, nor in the relief. I'm just wondering how you're going to comment on this righteous burden and the fair distribution of burdens. The types of laws were passed in the time of the left governments. This has always been packed into some beautiful model and some pretty talk about fair burden sharing, and in the end, the most difficult social groups have cashed out. In this case, it's exactly the same. In this mandate, we have only adopted one solution that has brought relief, and this has made it easier for those who have imported two banks. There, the burden that should have been borne by those who have taken over the banks has spread across all citizens. In these cases, however, when we suggest that for those who have a more difficult situation, some relief should be accepted in the context of the tax burden, you go completely cold over it, as if it were nothing. I can hardly imagine that you have a ministry of work, family and social affairs at all. You don't need him in this government. You need the Ministry of Agriculture and the Development of Privileges to cover those who have failed and do not need it. Only such measures shall be taken. I suggest you support this amendment. I'll do it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u734	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Horvath, please. Mr. Puksic is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u735	Thank you very much. On my own behalf, I also announce my support for the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. Members and Members of New Slovenia always have before us the lives of families, especially large families, and especially in these difficult times of crisis. How many people are unemployed, in many cases both parents. Children want to go to school – you know, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition. That is why every minimal effort and every solution that at least briefly improves the situation of large families are supported. Therefore, logical support for this amendment is also on our part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u736	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u737	Don't say we don't have any suggestions. We got 'em. Get this law out of the way. €4 billion is public sector wage. We can all give up 5%, which is a year's crisis tax. Raise economic growth and let's get rid of it. More will be paid by those who have higher wages, less those who have lower salaries in the public sector. The economy has already paid enough. In Slovenia we have 1 out of every 4 young unemployed, 25%. We are also in the European Union this time. We have another first place in Europe – a burden on gross wages. Where's your social sense here, my dear? Haven't we recently adopted a national youth programme in the National Assembly? It says how they will be educated, employment policy, housing policy and so on. "In the word of truth, in the act of justice" – Anton Martin Slomšek declared this to the Blessed, but you are none of it. You're just tax on tax, according to the formula Alenka Bratusek taxes squared. Support this amendment or withdraw it all from the National Assembly and go to a crisis tax. 5% will be easier for us to give up than for families with multiple children to be charged with this tax. It's not fair what you do. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u738	Thank you very much. Just a moment, Mr. Meh. All I'd do is warn you that I'm noticing that there's been a disturbance in the hall again. I don't think there's gonna be any way to solve this mess with the nice requests. So now I'm going to tell you that if you're going to be too much of a bother to those who explain their voices, I'm going to interrupt the session. Anybody want a word? Procedurally, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u739	Procedurally, Madam Vice President. Do your part. Mr. Puksich didn't talk about the articles. He talked about everything else, just not the article. If you're telling us we need to have a proper relationship, I agree with you. Then ensure that Members and Members speak about what is the topic. We were talking about the amendment. The word wasn't about the amendment. We had a debate yesterday and the day before yesterday and everything. So I'm ready as long as you want. You know, listening to this here three times one and the same — it really isn't the one who'd love to hear it. That's why I say you do your thing, and we'll do ours.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u740	I have very clearly understood Mr Pukšič that he supports this amendment and family policy. And you didn't make any suggestions. I suggest we move on. Mr. Chus has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u741	My proposal was clear. Do it. You have to be president. My suggestion was: do. What you understand is yours, but please, conduct the session and warn him when he does not speak. If he finally said he supported the amendment, there was no talk of an amendment. He talked about everything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u742	Thank you very much for your suggestions, Mr. Meh. Let us proceed with the explanations of vote. Anybody else want some? Procedurally, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u743	I propose in a procedural manner that all those who will listen to the whole discussion of the voice-explanation should apply to the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u744	Thank you very much. I must say, this time your motion of procedure was a little unclear. Here you go, Mr. Chus, you have the floor to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u745	Thank you for your word. I see that it is already a very difficult meeting for a lot of people, but I would still call on all my colleagues and colleagues to try to be constructive and right for all my colleagues and colleagues. I've said before that I'm going to support a similar amendment. I will also support this amendment. Why? No problem. I'll tell you why. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, we adopted a resolution on the National Programme for Youth and it was all the parliamentary groups that were full of mouths about how the young people's future were to stand on top of the world. I think it's one used political floscule that comes really great in a week to an election and then maybe another day after an election, and then until the next election, it's not on the agenda. I really don't know – if it's enough for all young people to support them and do something good for them, then let's do something positive for young people in this country, finally, because we're nothing this year, and let's support this amendment, which will also support larger families. I said before, do you know what the ratio in Slovenia will be in 20, 30 years? The number of adults per young person will triple. I don't want to discuss or talk about the consequences this will have on intergenerational solidarity when you like to talk about pensions, not to talk about other public finances. If you're up to something, let's say, a little better future than we're looking forward to, let's see what else we can fix in this unfair law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u746	Thank you very much, Mr. Chus. Anyone else want an explanation for the voice? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 42. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 14. We have tabled an amendment to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Anybody want a word? Mr Bogovich, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u747	In combination with Article 5, which was unfortunately not adopted, Article 14 would also be relevant if people could file complaints and have a legal remedy. This is one of the things that is certainly missing in this law, for the law, which will burden almost all Slovenes and Slovenes, cannot be without legal protection, and much will be discussed in the future. I suggest we withdraw this amendment, given that the fate of these amendments is very problematic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u748	At this stage, your proposal is not acceptable, it is not business, so we will vote on this amendment. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr Shircelj on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u749	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Slovenian People's Party amends Article 14 of this Act, which lays down legal remedies for the calculation of the property tax. Article 14 is a special article; it is a procedural article. The whole process of charging and paying taxes is governed by the Tax Procedure Act. Why is this article 14 in this law? This is because it will not be possible to appeal on a tax basis, but only on the elements of how the tax base is determined, which means the elements defined by the Geodetic Authority. In other words, this means that the taxable person will be given a stand by decision. He'll have to pay the tax, but he won't be able to complain about the tax base. As a result, this article is also extremely controversial with regard to the provision of human rights. Legal certainty is also that the taxable person has the right to complain about all the elements in the tax decision and the key element in the tax decision is the tax base which we have already referred to as a general market value, some model value that corresponds to or does not correspond to market value. For this reason, a provision that lays down and provides for greater legal certainty is extremely important for all taxpayers. This will probably also be the subject of a number of disputes, probably even in the Constitutional Court – a provision that there is no direct appeal on a tax basis. We will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u750	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we vote. Procedural – please, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u751	The President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure prior to this amendment, wishes the Group of Positive Slovenia to consult on the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u752	It's ten minutes to one. We'll resume in twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u753	Colleagues and colleagues! We're continuing our adjourned session. Does Mr. Möderndorfer want to explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u754	Unfortunately, after the consultation, we decided that we could not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u755	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are going to move on to Article 15 where two amendments are tabled, which are identical, so we will discuss and vote on both together. This is the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Party's Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? Here you are, Mr. Shircelj, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u756	Thank you very much. Article 15 refers to the insurance of tax liabilities. In other words, this means that the taxable person will be able to make an application to the tax authority in order to secure the tax debt by prohibiting the alienation of this property. The ban will be marked in the land book. In other words, this means that those taxpayers who cannot pay the tax due to their social situation or material situation will not have the money, but will be able to hand over this property to the tax administration, and the tax administration will mark it in the land book on this property. This will mean that this tax debt, probably on a given property, will increase year-to-year, and this taxable person will not be able to dispose of this property and eventually settle the tax debt. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are against such a solution, and we believe that such problems will have to be resolved in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act. The Tax Procedure Act exclusively lays down the manner in which the tax authority executes the enforcement and, finally, the Tax Procedure Act provides for a certain order in which the tax authority acts. The practice also shows otherwise, and even in accordance with the Tax Procedure Act, the tax authority may give the taxable person interest payment of the tax, and may also deduct the tax according to its material situation. Indeed, this provision is based on volunteerism because it speaks of it being able to do so, but I fear that the taxpayers will be forced to leave their properties to the tax authority, that this debt will increase year after year, that the taxpayer will not have the right to have the right of disposal, and therefore will be "forced" in some way. We are against such a solution in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We believe that this solution for certain taxpayers will simply mean that they will lose this property.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u757	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Here you are, Mr. Frangež, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u758	Take a four-bedroom apartment somewhere in the center of Maribor. Such an apartment in Maribor is worth about 100,000 euros at current rates, and a tax at the annual level will have to be paid 150 euros for it. It will take 666 years for the amount of the tax to reach the value of the property if this year the amount of the tax would be transferred to the security of the liability by means of a book of the flag right in favour of the State. Therefore, for 666 years, the taxable person will not pay the tax so that the value of the tax debt reaches the value of the property. What have we been listening to for two months?Oh, my God! To nationalize the property of Slovenian people. Respected and respected, this is a typical example of deep deception accompanying the introduction of this tax. If you ask me, because this tax is something that comes from real estate, even the debt of that tax — if the debtor cannot pay it, it remains on the property. Here I see two options. After the death of the debtor, this tax will have to be settled when transferred to the heirs. Remember that the property-related tax debt is paid at a very favourable interest rate, which is valid at the European Interbank Interest Rate, that is low interest, and will be settled by the heirs or, in the case of purchases, that debt will be settled. In this article, despite the ban on the removal, I do not rule out the possibility for a taxable person to propose to the tax administration, in a situation where the market can be released, to remove the ban on the alienation, to sell this apartment and to pay the debt from the purchase. If you ask me, this instrument, built into this law, is one of the key things that does not need to be intimidated by our people with the great social consequences of this tax. I think that this is a reasonable measure, low interest, which will bind the burden of the property tax, but it certainly does not mean the nationalisation and other apocalyptic dimensions that you attribute to it. I will therefore propose that this Article be deleted [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] I will not support this proposal to be understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u759	Thank you very much, Mr. Frangezh. Here you are, Mr Pukšič, on behalf of the SLS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u760	Thank you very much. We've just heard one theoretical debate that doesn't hold up in life. Life is just something more real. Colleagues and colleagues, since Article 15 of the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party is to delete the article solely for the purpose of preventing the possibility of tax administration, the State, the municipality [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, it's very funny, even for your pensioner, a colleague from DesSUS, it's funny, with 400 euros in pension, in one apartment and one daughter who's not at work. She survives today, lives now, even so that the last week of the month is not for bread. With your tax, including this tax, she will, of course, survive and will not allow the property to be charged with taxes, so she will not have two weeks a month as bread. This is ridiculous to you, of course, but not to me. Citizens and citizens have already given up on a number of proposals for adopted social legislation – social support and a protective supplement. The two of them gave up. About 10 thousand people have given up both a protective allowance and social support, but the property tax cannot be waived. What is the calculation for a lady who has EUR 183 in pension, who has a farm house, an agricultural economy and 6 hectares of land? What's the calculation here? Even this woman, who ended up alone, won't and won't leave because it's in the genes of the Slovenian nation, the burdened farms for heirs after her death. She won't, but she'll give up everything. This means that there may be some savings in the pension allowance because she will no longer have to pay her pensions, for — as I said before — you will have lost your joy to the pensioners before leaving this earthly area. That's not fair either. I therefore propose that the amendment to Article 15, paragraph 2 of Article 15, be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u761	[[advertising from the hall]] We are discussing Article 15, the amendment to Article 15. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u762	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. For the amendment of my colleagues from SDS and SLS to Article 15, I announce my support for the New Slovenia Group. In fact, this Article 15 is read as nationalisation, although the title has an obligation insurance. To be more precise and to ease my statements somehow, nationalisation is long-term or partial nationalisation. Because if you own a property only 99%, you have a problem – you also have to get the consent of the owner of that 1%. It is unacceptable, colleagues and colleagues, that before the law was implemented, the drafter had foreseen how some taxpayers would not be able to pay the property tax. Therefore, the Article provides that the tax debt will accumulate on the property and will later burden both the heir and any new owner. In fact, it is a silent nationalisation of property for the benefit of the State or the municipality — which is less likely — that they will slowly, but with reliable ownership of the immovable property of the socially weak, and that is the problem. That's why this amendment deserves support. And we're announcing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u763	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Maybe in your own name? I see that there is more desire to discuss or explain. Sign up for everyone who wants to explain your voice in your own name. Five debaters, or those who will explain their voices, have been reported. The first is Mr Andrej Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u764	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment will be supported primarily by the transfer of part of the property of an individual, a property to the congregation. Here there would be a very big question whether the taxpayer, in this case the owner of the property, could agree with the tax administration that everything could be sold and then repaid and so on. Unfortunately, the Tax Procedure Act does not have these solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u765	Can I have some quiet, please? Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u766	Unfortunately, the Tax Procedure Act does not contain these solutions. There is no agreement between the taxpayer and the tax administration that the tax administration would release this property in order to negotiate with him in order to make a contract with him when he would pay that tax. This option is not possible in the Tax Procedure Act. Moreover, under the Tax Administration and Tax Procedure Act, any negotiation between the tax administration and the taxpayer is prohibited. As a result, even if this is a minimum tax debt, this minimum tax debt will achieve that the taxable person will not be able to sell these properties and will not be able to pay this tax debt. That is why we are in the Slovenian Democratic Party for this article to be deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u767	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u768	Unlike the predecessor, I believe that this is a relief, especially for older people, who will be able to do so in some way. They will not be subject to tax enforcement. It's a reflection of some Blut und Boden philosophy, you're not supposed to do anything. We can tax all the work, all the consumption, God forbid something like this happen to real estate. I think it should be some kind of reverse mortgage that all normal countries have. But it's still a taboo with us. I will therefore vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u769	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u770	Someone hasn't heard – I'm not going to call – the interest rate. This means that it is no longer 666 years old because it has found a favourable interest rate, and it is necessary to ask whether the purpose of the law is for older people to leave tax-free properties where they will be co-owners of the state and the congregation. Is that an inheritance? Clearly, it is not like the theoretical case mentioned earlier, but are we aware of how these properties were made? Are we aware of the way those who bought, I don't know, 70, 80 square feet of big property in Maribor came to this? For some who now have 10 properties, we know — in a tycoonic, thieving way. But those who did what was right were in the apartment and then bought it, and they didn't. It is not fair that today, while they are staying in this apartment, they cannot resuscitate their old age with dignity so that they do not have the burden of doing whatever it takes to keep this apartment from being burdened. It would be fair for the first unit of residence, no matter what it is, because it is what someone has, to be without burden. But for the following I agree and would be very in favour, so for what has been speculatively procured, 3, 5, 10 and so on, to be taxed. If today a woman lives on a farm in a residential unit with 200, 300 square feet and an economic building, let her live to the end there.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u771	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u772	This Article 15 is problematic for several reasons. That is why it must be deleted and I support this amendment. It applies only to the debtors referred to in Article 11, paragraph 1, of this Law, to only one part of the debtors, not all those who can enter this so-called tax debt, and refers to those who have already reduced this tax burden by half. What does that tell us? This tells us that this tax burden will be very high, and those with low incomes will not be able to do it with low pensions. As a solution, you offer them to seal up this property they live in. Please. What little more they have and where they live will be sealed by this ban on estrangement and burden. The second part that is problematic, however, is that if such a debtor, one who already has the right to half of that tax, lives in a denationalised apartment, can seal the property if he cannot pay it, the one who owns that apartment. That's unacceptable. This article solves absolutely nothing. It has to be deleted in order to get the law at least into some normal formal framework, and finally we ask ourselves: Why all this? Why will all those who have not so far had any problems with paying this local property tax, which has been called a compensation for the use of the building land, which has suddenly had such terrible problems that they will not be able to do so, and therefore, as a "solution" for them – this is the worst solution for them to be slaughtered by blocking their property – offers the entry of this tax debt. Why? Because they will pay higher taxes for those who can and who should pay them, they will not pay them for your decisions. Moreover, we have previously shown on specific cases which will pay substantially less tax than before, and could continue to pay it without any problems as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u773	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u774	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't think you're aware of what it means if you don't support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In fact, if a young family has a property on which it will not be able to pay the tax, because someone may lose their job or for any other reason, this will mean that a tax debt will be entered on this property. What happens next? As soon as you have a tax debt, you can't do business with any traffic. This means that a young family will not be able to take any credit so that it will not be able to self-employed as espas or open up businesses, because until you have settled all your obligations to the state, you can't even do some other things. This is an extremely unsocial law that we have always warned about, and I think you are not coming out of practice, but you are protecting the rich because someone will not be able to pay the property tax – certainly those who are most socially at risk. Thank you. I'm sorry. Of course I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u775	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Just a minute. Please sign up for an explanation of vote. Five other Members, or Members, wish to explain their vote. The first is Mrs. Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u776	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'd like to come by and say I'm against this amendment. In doing so, I would like to point out that when we say that we are going to burden these older people with some new bookmaking on their property — we have already had this, and we have probably forgotten: a protective supplement. Why do people give up a protective supplement? Because it weighs them down, because it's also a book if they have real estate. Another example is that if the elderly who have real estate go to their home because they cannot pay for their pension because they are underprivileged, the congregation also books on this property, so that it is not the first case, and we remember who the one who suggested it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u777	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat. I'm asking you again, and this is the second time I'm alerting you, and this is the third time I'm done, and we're gonna stop this session for an hour. Please calm down so that people can explain their voice. It's 15 minutes away, and then there'll be no more danger. It's Marko Pavlišič's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u778	Thank you for your word. I'm going to reject the amendment. It is necessary to read what Article 15 says in its first paragraph: "The taxable person referred to in Article 11, paragraph 1, of this Law may submit an application to the tax authority" and so on. The emphasis is on the word "may". What does that mean? That, if the debtor so wishes, he may freely express his will and may submit this application so that this tax debt can then be entered. Those who support this amendment, which is now under discussion, oppose the free will of an individual and take away the opportunity to decide for yourself what he wants to do. We do not prescribe to anyone what he has to do here, but we give him an opportunity that he voluntarily chooses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u779	Thank you very much. Mr. Braniselle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u780	Dear colleagues, especially from the opposition! If you object to Article 15, it's something like opposing the mortgages of the Real Law Code. It has exactly the same function as Article 15, which refers to the insurance of liabilities as mortgages. The mortgage is probably not at issue at this point, and this is all of a sudden controversial. I will vote against this amendment, and there is no argument that Article 15 will be at all controversial.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u781	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u782	It is my great pleasure to be able to say that I will support the amendment. I have an opportunity to answer Mrs. Popotat. She asked the opposition who had already supported the protective supplement, and then those options when you go home, this congregation sits on the property. Mrs Porotat, the government of Borut Pahor proposed, but they supported: Erjavec Karl – do you know him? - Do you know him? Do you know him? He's still here somewhere. Rezman — Do You Know Him? A god and a clavora. You know, it was those gentlemen who supported it. We didn't support it. You see, this is an interesting matter, because this was the proposal of the government of Borut Pahor. It is true, however, that the law entered into force on 1 January 2012, and then people simply thought it was Janša's government. Look, it's bad, the hell I have a memory like that, you know. That's just bad. Let's move on. This amendment needs to be supported, and I suggest you, Mrs Porotat, to support it, for your soul, because it will be easier for those guys who supported it, you know, and now they've been amazing, amazing. [[...]] But, look, let's be serious about this situation. It's a serious matter. It’s about those who already have the lowest social support and 50% less – those who sit up! That'll make you sit up there. Now they're gonna go to some tent or where they're gonna go? Because they already have huts that aren't worth anything. A little more self-criticism, Mrs. Popot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u783	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Excuse me, Mrs. Miriam Bon Klanjšček, you are still in this circle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u784	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment, in particular because I fully agree with the calculation made by my colleague Frangež. I have to say that I quickly recalculated and saw that the interest account was taken into account. However, I would like to point out that today, a colleague who admitted that this account had not been taken into account has already applied the first Kirchoff Act of physics and used this interest account. I feel like he only knows the terms, but I don't know if he can calculate any of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u785	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u786	For the fact that this is Article 15, I apologize. I cannot support this amendment because it significantly interferes with the content of the law and thus prevents people from enjoying their property, from enjoying it, and from living in it or whatever else. Who do we sit up for? We don't sit up. Someone who owns property probably isn't a social poor, but he's got a small income. You don't have to throw one out of his real estate, you don't have to take it. Such a man could live in peace, as Franz calculated — how many years did you say? I don't want a life that long. It is said that you could be on this property all the time. The problem is something else – we do negative propaganda. People will be afraid of it, they will be afraid of it, as they fear the instrument of a protective supplement, because they will not be able to leave children anything because they will not leave others the property they have. Therefore, it is our job to tell people: those who have too little to live, and have the conditions to take the protective allowance, to put it on their property, because they have it. That's why this property is, because it's not to be left to someone, and if it's to be left to someone, then it's to settle that property or whatever's written up there. I think this amendment is harmful and I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u787	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Here you go, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u788	Thank you so much for saying that. Even though it's almost 2:00 in the morning, I still have to make some calls. First of all, I would like to tell my colleagues and colleagues in Article 15 that I support, above all, the amendment that somehow destroys this article, because this article is something like asking someone to commit suicide, and then you offer him a knife or a syringe. The first thing that matters is above all – you have to look at how people live in the countryside. They live in modest houses, not in an apartment for 100,000 euros, because we have one specific – people with the lowest income, very poor buildings, energy inefficient, live in rural areas. When you say that today, you take it to all pensioners, to all those who live in terrible social distress, where they adapt to the heat, with everything that they can pay for – you take away their meaning of life. All that remains is the pride they have, this property, which has so far been unladen, because the property tax was small, Mr Meh. All these properties will now be taxed at least three times as much, and the purpose of the law itself is shown in your 15th article to know exactly what will happen to all these citizens living in rural areas who have very modest houses that will be taxed several times. What you're saying right now, and what you're offering these people, is a classic mortgage that's going to be credited to, and nothing else. This is the total transfer of all this tax that it is. This is another disgrace to this tax that is. You make sense to all these people in the village, that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u789	Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I don't see any more wishes. We are voting on both amendments together. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 48. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the amendment was not accepted. We are moving on to Article 17 and the amendment of the coalition. Anybody want to explain their voice? If no one wants to explain to the vote, then we vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 20 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Two amendments were tabled here. First, we are discussing the first amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u790	Thank you very much. The government of Alenka Bratušek has proposed draconian penalties if someone does not report changes in real estate – up to 10 000 for legal persons, for natural persons 2 000. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that these penalties be substantially reduced, especially because it is simply not meaningful and it is also not in line with any penal policy that for not reporting on changes, there are so many penalties. We are a while ago, and we will still be considering, or tomorrow at this meeting, the law on the implementation of budgets, where penalties are laid down for heads of public institutions, public agencies, i.e. para-state institutions, where a maximum penalty of EUR 2 000 500 is laid down, if the chairman does not make a human resources plan, if he does not make a plan to remedy the loss in this public institution – some penalties for certain offences, which in fact also mean a reduction in the financial situation in the country or could also mean that, because someone does not do something in these institutions, taxes should be increased. There is a maximum sentence of up to EUR 2 000 500. Here's a fine of up to 2,000 euros if someone doesn't report this information. I think the penal policy here in the government is inconsistent. I think it is also unfair, and therefore we propose, as in the amendment, a substantial reduction in the penalty, so that for legal persons the maximum penalty is a thousand euros. Of course, it also decreases for natural persons to 100 euros, 200 euros and nothing more for these offences.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u791	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If not, we vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the second amendment tabled by the coalition. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? If the coalition doesn't want to, we'll just start by voting. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 17. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to Article 22 and to the amendments tabled by the SDS Group and the SLS Group of Members. These are also the only amendments we have to this article. Because they are identical, we will discuss and vote on both together. [[advertising from the hall]] You're hunting me down, Mr. Frangež. Of course, it is known that you explain your vote either on behalf of the Group of Members or on behalf of yourself. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u792	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u793	I guess we understand each other. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll be very careful, Mr. Möderndorfer. I hope you'll all stay when you explain your voice. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u794	Thank you very much. We propose to end the transitional period with regard to the application of the rates and that the rates are as they are, not as proposed for 2014, 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u795	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm guessing not, so we're moving on to a decision. We decide on the first and second amendments to Article 22 together. The candidates are the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 23. The first and second amendments are identical. They were tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? Here you are, Mr Puksic, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u796	Thank you very much. Article 23 states: "Dividation of tax revenue in 2014." In the Slovenian People's Party, we propose that this article be deleted. This is a division of tax revenue in 2014 to 50% of the country and 50% of the local community. Today, we have said several times that if there were no such division, all the tax that is unfair, unfair, unfair, but still would have stayed where it would have been raised. This would make it less financial. Since this would be significantly more fair than the method of calculation, how many years is needed for the payment and disposal of the entire property by the Francež formula, the interest rate account, and by the instruction of a teacher who did not tell the formula. Although the formula is quite simple. If you count it at a 4% tax is 1.04, at a capacity of 666 – these calculators we have cannot calculate it – more than 150 euros, my dear, and the value of 100,000 would have been in 166 years, not in 666 years. We can also do some instructional hours when you have a break for your next meal. I'll do it at no cost. In the Slovenian People's Party, we suggest that these divisions should not be, because the division in the way you understand in the coalition means damage to the state not for 50:50 or injury to the local community for at least another 20%, so that the municipalities will receive about 70% of what they have collected by law on the replacement of building land. We'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u797	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I guess not. In your own name? Is it an interest to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. We're closing. We are moving on to an explanation of vote on our own behalf. On behalf of the delegation? Mr Černač will explain the vote of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u798	Thank you very much. Why should Article 23 be deleted? This Article states that the property tax revenue in 2014 is wholly due to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and that the municipalities receive as much as they were able to collect or collect this compensation in 2012. This provision is manifestly unfair. There is also a congregation that did not charge this compensation. This one won't get anything out of this logic. Then we will have cases mentioned in some other articles when citizens of some x congregations pay significantly more taxes than in other congregations, and the recipient of this tax will be a country or other congregations. The transfer of this tax, which is a local tax and is bound to real estate in a particular environment, is impossible. Someone who pays a property tax in Bovec cannot finance the budgets of another congregation or country. That's unacceptable. This provision is inadequate and bad. If it is not removed, it is highly likely that the entire law will fall due to this lack of harmony in the Constitutional Court. You have never heard me say that before – that the law will fall in the Constitutional Court. This is the first time that I have said this because it is indeed a provision which is made not only formal, but also on the substantive side to explain that it is inadequate, unfair, unfair, and will jeopardise the implementation of this law in its entirety. By blindly insisting on these provisions, you shoot yourself in the knee. As with that provision that was discussed a little earlier, with regard to land debt, where you have overlooked that those who are bound by the amendment that you have adopted are also a tenant in a denationalized apartment, and as such, if the recipient is a bonus of 50 % at a property tax [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u799	Mr. Chernač, this is about the allocation of funds, and stay with this amendment. We've already done that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u800	This one has something to do with it. Those who have the right to enter land debt, not their own, but the owner of this property, this denationalized apartment or house. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and as I see also in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, this amendment was tabled solely in order to help the coalition adopt some law that will somehow be implemented. If this amendment is not adopted, it will not be possible to implement it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u801	Thank you. We are moving on to the application for explanations of vote on our own behalf. Excuse me? On behalf of the delegation? [[advertising from the hall]] I can't hear you. I don't know what you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u802	You called for an electronic check-in earlier, and I signed up. My name was on the screen, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u803	I repeated my application because I broke up because the debate or explanation of vote was on behalf of the Group of Members. So we're working on the one that just showed up. The first one has the word Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u804	Thank you so much for saying that. Don't make me repeat what my colleague Blackach has already said. So far, the vast majority of rural communities have collected much less compensation than half the tax under this law. Not even half as much as it would have belonged to her under this law if the tax had entered into force immediately. However, since the law will not be in force for three years, they will only be paid back as much as they collected the tax minus the tax paid on their assets, and only about 20% of the money collected will be paid back to the congregation. In the meantime, some larger congregations, which have now collected significantly more NUSZ than they are now, will be taxed — for example, the municipality of Velenje has collected 7 million NUSZs, and now the tax will be set at 4 million 400. It will now receive a tax refund of 6 million and a half, and under this law it would be worth two million. Where are they gonna get that money? From small rural municipalities where the most tax will be collected from apartments and from agricultural land. That's what Mr. Montenegro was talking about earlier. This is absolutely unfair and unconstitutional. That is why we have proposed this amendment to delete this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u805	Thank you. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u806	Greetings to viewers and viewers and to all the sleeping Members and ministers of the National Assembly! Let me start by saying that I intend to support the amendments mentioned by the parliamentary groups, both the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party. If I say something for a moment. The predecessors were already quite specific. The real estate tax should, in my opinion, be entirely local, and it grieves me that this is another measure that will further affect the municipalities, particularly the smaller ones, and especially the Slovenian countryside. I am saddened by the principle that everything that is successful, everything that it creates – the same will now be punished for its success, because they will be able to support the incompetence of the government of Alenka Bratušek, who does not know how to patch the budget through its hopeless policy. This is exactly the paradigm that drives young people out of the country in Slovenia. Everything that is successful and creates is additionally punished and taxed. We have made such decisions today quite a bit, and I really call for us to support the amendment. As has already been said, it is a matter of punishing rural communities and small congregations. I don't know, maybe it suits the mayor of Ljubljana and whatever else, but Slovenia as a whole definitely doesn't. I would like to say that I will support the amendment of the SDS and SLS MPs, but I would like to urge colleagues and colleagues not to be because we once work longer than waiters and cleaners in the National Assembly, because we have a bad will.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u807	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u808	You basically claim that there was no dialogue on this law. However, we know that the Government has had a number of coordinations, such as with farmers' representatives – by the way, farmers have also achieved the greatest shift towards lowering rates – including with representatives of such a small economy as well as the economy, as well as with the local community. The third paragraph of this Article points to one of the compromises agreed, in the direction of stabilising municipal revenues, in order to ensure the same percentage over the following years as the municipalities received during the period of validity of the compensation for the use of building land. Let me mention that today, in the debate, the issue is that municipalities that did not charge compensation for the use of building land deliberately went into this because they wanted to create a nicer environment and economy and because the population did not want to be burdened, but, as I understand, they did not then know how to compensate, which means that we have further stimulated such municipalities with State resources so far, and the situation is reversed, as you claim. As for the previous debate on the interest rate account, I admit that mathematics was never my strong point, but thank you to the professor. Above all, Pukšič's calculation does not hold back because the European Interbank Rate is not 4%, but 0.55%, considering Euribor over six months.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u809	Procedurally, Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u810	I'd like to know [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, you don't. You'll probably need it more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u811	Mr. Pukšič, you have a procedural problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u812	Procedurally, yes. They've started the controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u813	No, it's just procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u814	Your coalition colleagues started the controversy, not me. On a procedural basis, I would like to know, Mr President, where our citizens and citizens, entrepreneurs, economists and craftsmen can be indebted at such an interest rate. Not even at a 4% interest rate, except maybe with Zoran Jankovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u815	Mr Pukšič, this certainly was not a procedural proposal that could be placed at this point. You want to explain your voice? I invite you to report. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u816	Your Honor! In today's situation in Slovenia, there is indeed a financial and economic crisis. There are virtually no major investments in the country. Those who manage investment in Slovenia are municipalities, and now we are shutting down the part of the funds or burdening them to the extent that the part of the dispersed development, the dispersed investment they led throughout Slovenia, will be disabled by this taxation and the reduction of funds to municipalities. This is a real attack on the countryside, and all follows the serious centralisation of the Republic of Slovenia. This is not good for the country, and the municipalities will lose the condition, investment potential they had. The municipalities held those small economic developments in our country during this crisis period. This is a very bad way and a bad way to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u817	Thank you. Voice explanation, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u818	Thank you very much. I have a bit of a problem, President. I don't know, before Mr. Frangež attacked Puksic, everything was fine, you were dealing with some papers, but then when it was the other way around, he got a reminder. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u819	Mr. Gorenak [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u820	It's okay, I'm just asking if you're looking there and you think I'm sitting next to Mrs. Potter. The amendment speaks of redistribution of funds. This is a problematic matter and we want to prevent it. I've told you two, three numbers before, nothing more, and I'm going to be the other numbers now so I don't repeat myself because I feel justified in several cases important. Why would the Shmarjes pick up 933 thousand at Jelshah and get 324? For what reason would Rogaška Slatina pick up a million 200 and get 633? This is what we want to prevent with this amendment. That's why this amendment has to be supported, and I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u821	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. The first amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the second amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party are identical and are therefore voted on jointly. If accepted, the amendment under point 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under number 3, the proposaler of the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u822	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, the municipality of Rogašovci in Goriček is the only Slovenian municipality that has not introduced a system of compensation for the use of building land. We can punish these citizens now, but we can show a bit of good will and follow this amendment and say that citizens will pay the property tax under this law. The amendment proposes only that half of these funds remain with the municipality in 2014 and half of them are received by the State. Otherwise, the state would have picked it all up. Why the mayors, the first and the present, so decided, I don't know, there's no one near Novi Slovenija. We're not making this amendment because our client would be very strong there, that's not true at all. We have about 3 000 200 citizens in front of us, especially data, colleagues and colleagues who are frapantine. Over the last 50 years, the population has decreased by 40%. In 1963 there were about 5,000, 350 inhabitants, today 3,000, 200. We can wave our hand and say, "What do I care?" This is a problem because this municipality lies, as it was said, close to the Slovenian-Austrian border, and also because of the novel of the Income Act, which you reconfirmed yesterday, people will move. This is exile from Slovenia. Or maybe we can show a little bit of good faith — it's a little bit of change. We show the chance of good faith by adopting this amendment and we say: O.K., okay, let us forgive you for your negligence, whatever it may be called, the former mayor or the current mayor. But as a matter of fact, I'm not interested in mayors here. I think you, like me, are interested in people, 3,000 200 citizens. Let us show them our goodwill in this early morning. I'm asking for your support for this amendment. It is clear that the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u823	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors? No, on my own. We are moving on to explanations of vote in our own name. Sign up for an explanation of your vote. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u824	Thank you, President. I predict support for the amendment of New Slovenia. I have listened to the comments of some MEPs and members of Positive Slovenia when Mr Horvat reasoned on the amendment tabled by Nova Slovenija, and I must say that it is true that Sitt cannot understand the hungry. In this sense, we could say that Prekmurje, Pomurje, is already so poor — even if the congregation has not so far collected this tax, perhaps the reason is that it is less developed areas, that perhaps the municipality has been making money for the development of the economy or the like. In order to remain these citizens who will pay a tax to the municipality in every normal democratic country, only in Slovenia, not when 50% of the tax is taken to cover their country's hole – I think it would be right for Members and Members to listen to New Slovenia, their explanation and support this amendment. I'll definitely do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u825	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u826	Your Honor! This law is supposed to be a systemic, European law. Everywhere in Europe, this tax belongs to local communities, mainly for the construction of municipal infrastructure. The municipality of Rogasovci did not collect the NUSZ, as a colleague had previously said. Over the last 50 years, 40% of the population has been displaced. It's a congregation in Goričke. When we were MPs in the field, we talked. The mayor asked us to do our utmost to ensure that this congregation did not lose that tax. In this congregation, they will collect €176,000 a year, and they will receive nothing back! Now tell me if that's fair. According to the law — it is easy to say as I have heard — they have now collected nothing, nothing belongs to them. No, gentlemen, the state will take 300 euros from them for their household and they will not get anything back. Is that fair? Just as it is not fair for other small municipalities to get back only 20% of what will be collected in the area of these municipalities, because only so many NUSZ have been collected compared to the tax to be collected in the area of these municipalities. As has been said, this cannot go through the Constitutional Court. Those who vehemently claim to be right make fun of the countryside. You make fun of these people in the countryside who have done the most in these years on municipal infrastructure, on the infrastructure that the country has promised Europe to build everything by 2017 – sewage, water, waste management. I will support this amendment, even though it is not comparable to the other congregations, because then it would be more.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u827	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u828	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment, not only because it is unjust to those in the congregation of Rogasovci, but because it opens the way for us to systematically correct what you have rejected in this article in the next reading, in the third reading of the law. This case shows very clearly what may not have been seen so far. These 176 thousand euros, which will be paid by owners of properties, houses, buildings in the Rogasovci municipality, will receive, say, the Velenje municipality and other stronger municipalities. The Municipality of Velenje will be significantly higher than is now taxed in 2012, given that the compensation has been paid in the past years, in particular in 2012. Whoever pays the difference, the one who will not be paid by property owners in this municipality – the whole remaining Slovenia. This law will not pass constitutional judgment with such a provision, because it is inappropriate for someone who pays a property tax to have a local tax – to get it from one another at the other end of Slovenia. This is nowhere, only in Slovenia will this happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u829	Thank you. We are moving on to decision-making — not yet. I'd like to ask you to sign up for an explanation of vote. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u830	I can't support this amendment. It may be a problem, but we have to solve it differently. It needs to be resolved systematically. It is not right that municipalities did not collect compensation for the use of building land. Today you say that congregations will receive less money, and all the years ago, 20 years ago, they did not collect compensation for the use of building land. We collected it, and we overburdened the population. If the Rogasov people have 3 thousand 200 inhabitants and collect a thousand 700 euros in compensation or tax, how much does that mean for one resident? In Velenje – calculate: 7 million divide into 33 thousand inhabitants, subtract the economy and you will calculate the amount in Velenje. On average, we have burdened our people and the economy. This shows the calculation because, after evaluation, because Slovenia is uniform, the same, with the same criteria, Velenje will pay half less. These are congregations that have always collected a lot of compensation for the use of building land, so do not say that Velenje will receive anything from whom. Over the years, it has burdened its inhabitants above average.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u831	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u832	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, colleague Lach, for serving with a calculation I've forgotten before. This amendment does not speak of Velenje, and once again, because we are not listening at all, the congregation of Rogasovci in Prekmurje, near the Austrian border, Mr Meh, is the only one with a word and a number, the one and only congregation that did not have the NUSZ system in place. Three thousand 200 people, once again, 50 years ago, in 1963, there were about 5,000 350. I don't know why the mayors didn't implement this system. It's not right they didn't. We agree here, but not so hard, Mr. Meh. You know, Prekmurskis are softer. Mr President, I ask you to make an exception, because the Rogasovci Congregation is an exception to this system. It's about the citizens. It's not about the mayor. Please, Mr President, make an exception and give the Secretary of State a word and say whether the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will fall in 2014 if the Republic of Slovenia does not receive EUR 88,000. Thank you very much, Mr. President, if you will.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u833	Thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot take your proposal into account, but this response can also be obtained in the context of the third reading. I think it'll be easier then. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u834	Dear colleagues, especially those who were mayors! Do you know that the collection of compensation for the use of building land was exclusively a local and municipal domain? Do you know that?Oh, my God! Now the state intervenes as a whip against those congregations that have been a little nicer to their citizens, based on their backs. Now those who were kind would pay the difference to those who were highly taxed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u835	Mr. Žnidar, we are talking about an amendment that speaks of the congregation of Rogasovci. That's all I want to warn you, because you need to define yourself to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u836	Mr President, do you distinguish between non-taxation and very high taxation?Oh, my God! I am discussing this and I want to stress this difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u837	But you're with an amendment that speaks of the congregation of Rogasovci.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u838	Yes, the municipality of Rogašovci paid no compensation, and now the state intervenes that the municipality will pay to those other Slovene municipalities that accounted very highly for this compensation. That's what I'm talking about. I hope you've just understood this debate I'm having. This is not fair, and it is not on the same name of a state intervention with a sharp whip on that part of the population that actually maintained a settlement in a certain community environment so that it could develop. Now that part of the population will be punished. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u839	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the third amendment to Article 23, the drafter of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 24. The first amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the second amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party are identical and are therefore voted on jointly. If accepted, the amendment under point 3 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? There is an interest to explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u840	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party proposes to delete Article 24 which provides for the allocation of revenue from this tax in 2015 and 2016. The Slovenian Democratic Party advocates that the revenue from this tax is exclusively the source of the budgets of the municipalities. It therefore objects to the fact that the preceding provisions provide for the ratio of how much money the municipalities receive and how much money the Republic budget receives. As we have pointed out many times, citizens are pursuing their interests in municipalities, in local communities, and therefore local communities must also finance their interests and their needs, both in the fields of education, health, social protection and in other areas. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this tax is harmful to the Republic budget for the decentralisation and regionalisation of Slovenia and also for the implementation of local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u841	Thank you. I am opening the possibility of applying for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u842	I will support this amendment. Something similar as the preceding Article regulated for 2014 is governed by this Article for 2015 and 2016. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this tax should remain a local tax, as it has been so far, only that it has been called a compensation for the use of building land. Local authorities, the mayors are the ones who direct development across this tax area. As a result, they decided in Velenj because they saw that they could do so, so that in individual cases this compensation would be higher. Somewhere else, they decided it wouldn't get any higher. Somewhere they decided not to be at all because they wanted certain activities or to attract people to their territory. On the coast, for example, the locations overlooking the sea were also 10 times more burdened with compensation than those looking at bushes. This will no longer be enforceable through this law. However, it is totally unacceptable that some municipalities will now pay to those who had more income from the 2012 compensation for a further 3 years, even though people, users, households, businesses in the area of these municipalities will pay significantly less tax. This is totally unacceptable! This can't be passed on by any legal system, nor can Slovenian legislation, although our legal system is really a little specific, especially if we look at the judicial, prosecutorial sphere of power, and it is a unique one in Europe or even a little wider. But in this part, this arrangement is so great a legal anachronism that it cannot contain normal judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u843	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u844	If you would like to be the shortest person to explain your vote under Article 24, I would say: make a copy of the trap of explanations under Article 23. This was the year 2014 and this is the year 2015 and 2016. We also propose in the Slovenian People's Party that this article be deleted because, once again, I repeat, it is said that twice in the mill, three times elsewhere, that nothing would be detrimental to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, it would be useful because this could further affect investment and the use of European funds for the next perspective 2014-2020. I hope that Article 24 will be deleted from this law because, at the time of 2015, there will be a more normal democratic coalition in which social standards will apply, in which the standards, such as the care of the Slovenian countryside, will apply, and in which not only will the words on equitable, coherent development be changed, but the words will also be changed in action. I will support the amendment to Article 24.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u845	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u846	I will support this amendment. If not adopted, the congregation of Rogasovci will not receive anything for another two years. In comparison, because of the absence of Mr Meh here, the municipality of Velenje will collect EUR 48 per capita and will collect a million and a half, while the municipality of Rogasovci will receive 50.3 euros per capita, the municipality of Velenje will receive nothing, not only a million and a half, but 6 million and a half years. Is that fair? Six-and-a-half million, and they're gonna raise a million and a half from the apartments. The Rogasovci municipality will pay more, normally, because not people live in blocks where there are smaller apartments, but in residential houses, and they will also pay more taxes. They will pay mainly from housing and agricultural land. The municipality of Velenje will also receive money from the economy, from public buildings, from business buildings, three times more than from housing. It will receive twice as much as it is due under this law if it enters into force immediately. Two million 200 would have been received, half of which would have been collected, and six and a half million would have been received, and the congregation of Rogasovci is nothing. But they'll collect 50.3 euros per capita. That's why it's unfair.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u847	Thank you. We are moving on to the decision on the amendment under point 1 and point 2. The candidate under point 1 shall be the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and, under point 2, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. They are identical, so we are voting on both of them together. If you are accepted, the amendment under point 3 will be irrelevant. We vote on points 1 and 2. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendment under point 3, the proposaler of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Horvat has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u848	Thank you very much. I have already said most, Mr President, but I may not have said that the municipality of Rogasovci, which also has 12% of the Roma population – State Secretary Tamara Vont, I think it knows each of these – more young families at work in Austria, where they are seeking permanent residence. I don't know, Mr President, if we're listening to anything, if we're even talking about what this is about. It is about evicting people, citizens and citizens from the municipality of Rogasovci to a neighbouring, very close Austria. I don't think it's in the interests of this government, this coalition. If it is, you will surely reject this amendment. Now I am asking for your consideration and your support for this amendment. In advance, I thank the members of the Pomurian Members Club and also all those who are after the roots and the hearts of Prekmurci. But if it's so bad in the country, it's so bad, it's so bad, it's so bad, it's so bad, it's so bad, it's so bad, it's so bad, it's so bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u849	Thank you. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your own name? [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, in your own name you will explain your voice. I invite you to report. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? If I understand correctly, no one wants to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. We are moving on to explanations of vote in our own name. Mr. Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u850	The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia will vote against. However, I would like to tell my colleague Horvath the following because he challenged me as Pomurca, Prekmurac, President of the Club of the Pomurski Members. Although the proposal is very attractive, we both know that we have a Horvat municipality in Rogašovci near the Municipality of Kuzma, we have the municipality of Cankova, we have the municipality of Puconci, the structure of the population with Roma and so on, they all go to Austria, and all three other municipalities are collected, people are paid. Only Rogasov didn't pay. The former mayor knows that, and the current mayor knows that. There is no reason why people did not pay for moving to Austria, and that is misleading. Let's just say that. Because of this deception, I cannot agree with this. However, I am aware that those who are now in Rogasovci will be paid for their previous mistakes by the mayors and will have nothing to do with it. It is true that this amendment will not solve this, but we must resolve it in another way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u851	There's still an interest in explanation of vote, so sign up. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u852	I support this amendment, for the same reason as before, in order to open up the possibility of this article being amended accordingly in the third reading. What is the problem if some municipalities have not charged compensation or if one is larger, the other is smaller? I've explained this to you three times before, I've tried to show you on practical occasions – everywhere in the world and Europe it's a local tax. With it, mayors and municipal councils create municipal policy for the development of municipalities. Where certain activities are intended to attract, they give less burdens, where they know that they can give more if there is a good location along the coast and rich people come, they can give more burden. This is a matter of local policy, local development, and this money is devoted to the development of local municipal and other infrastructures. It is so everywhere, so it should also be in Slovenia and so it is in Slovenia today. It's gonna be like this by the end of the year. If a congregation felt that its development was detrimental if it burdened those living in the area with an additional tax, it did not do so. So far, you have had municipalities that have forgiven industrial establishments to pay a municipal contribution for attracting industrial activities into the environment or for building housing and houses if they wanted more housing. It's a matter of local development, local politics. Why should we now pay the property tax to those living in the congregation the benefits of this tax and the financial effect of the state and other congregations? No one explained that. I claim this is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u853	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u854	Thank you very much. My friend Ficko's been derailed. I'm sure you'll allow me, Mr President, to respond. I know neighboring congregations, but what am I talking about? I'm talking about the problem that has arisen. The mayors cooked it – I said this in the first place – and now it seems that your policy is such that it is necessary to punish citizens. That's what this is about. I haven't said anything yet. I counted the Roma Yes, I don't know why the population has dropped by 40% in 50 years. [[...]] Both mayors say that because of this they did not hope to introduce that at least a favourable environment was created and showed the citizens to stay in the congregation of Rogasovci. These are explanations, but once again, I don't care about the mayors, I care about 3 000 200 of these citizens. There is something else we must say, Comrade Branko, drinking water is not available, and even when the water supply is finished, it is this congregation that will not have drinking water in the entire congregation. We know that, and we'll hear it on Monday. Please don't be such a hard and vengeful policy to introduce. It's 80 grand. If this country has $80,000 in government money or not in these three years, I think it doesn't matter. I'm asking for your support and your sanity.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u855	Thank you. Another explanation for the voice. There's more of you. I suggest you sign up for an explanation of vote. Mr. Stephen Tisell has the floor. He doesn't want to. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u856	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. Still, I feel sorry for these people, but look, you said before they didn't have any drinking water. Of course, they don't have drinking water if they didn't pay anything. If they didn't pay the tax, if they weren't loaded, where would they get it? Some of them were given individual congregations. Where taxes were lower or absent, they were compensated. I don't know if this congregation of Rogasovci won. She probably won. But look, if we live in a country, then we all need to know in this country that we're going to have to pay taxes, sooner or later. They didn't lock Al Capone up in America because of the murders, but because he didn't pay taxes. The country, if it wants to be a state, has to have a system, and the system is built on pay. You say that all the time. If you're paying, then you can have one of these. How will the state normally carry out the obligations it must have if it does not have the money and the money it receives from the taxes? I am sure, as colleague Ficko said, that there will be a solution for this congregation and these people, but outside of this law. The more special we have, the worse the marriage will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u857	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u858	Thank God, I am glad that the government coalition has also realized that it is not a congregation that has not collected the replacement of the building land, but only one congregation in this country. That's right. Since the government coalition said so, you don't have any drinking water, and it's only right that you don't have it. You didn't pay the tax, and it's only fair that you don't have any drinking water. You worked abroad, you weren't on the job market, you weren't pumping out social transfers and so on, and so you don't have drinking water and you won't have it. You'll pay and we'll punish you. It is a system of justice according to the formula of Positive Slovenia. However, righteousness is to be exercised according to our constitution. Article 2 states that we are a legal and social state. If that were true, then it would be considered that the legal order will apply to us in such a way that righteousness and honesty apply. Unfortunately, it was not, because if at least one of these elements were in force, then we would not have recapitalised the bank for the third time, then we would not have a picture like the one the economy is writing here in front of us at this hour. Colleagues and colleagues, it is right that we do not make an exception — we do not make any exceptions, but now people will pay, and what others belong to does not belong to the congregation, the local community. They won't get anything in their pocket, but it's about quality of life to stay there. Moreover, the mayors are not gods, they are not the sheriffs who made the decisions — they also had the municipal council. The municipal council already knew, along with the mayor, why they decided to do so. Let's trust them. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u859	Thank you. Explanation of vote – there are many of you, so I suggest you apply for explanations of vote. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u860	Thank you very much. I've worked very hard, President, to find Al Capone in this amendment we're talking about right now. I didn't find it, as Mr. Kavtičnik found it, but I'll stick to the amendment. We are only talking about one thing – whether we will allow the congregation of Rogašovci with 3,000 inhabitants, where they do not have water and everything else – I was there, and this last Monday – 80,000 euros or not. If you don't think so, no. Because you're obviously a marriage, you're accepting a marriage, you're going to adopt it without my voice, like it is. I will support this amendment myself. But if it's not something to be blamed for, if it isn't something ugly to make fun of people who don't have water, and you're willing to vote for some law that gives your political boss Jankovic more money – that's vile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u861	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. And the rest of you, please don't disturb the debaters. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u862	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be very brief, but it seems important to me that I support this amendment. I will support him for one very important reason. It is amazing that in the National Assembly I can hear that the National Assembly has put itself in a position to protect the interests of someone, an individual – a mayor who has not done some things that would be in the interest of a whole community. What is the task of the highest legislative branch of government?Oh, my God! I am convinced that the task of the highest legislative branch of authority is to protect the interests of each individual to protect the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and certainly not of any individual who has accepted, whether he was a political official, such or otherwise. The least that I would expect of all Members and Members of the National Assembly is to be aware of that. We are in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and the people living in this municipality are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. There is no chance, there is no right, there is no honesty, there is no justice for the National Assembly to follow the things that a political person has done wrong. We must change this and seduce it in a direction that is in the interest of everyone and everyone in this country. I am convinced that citizens and citizens in this congregation have absolutely nothing to do with this; they are not to blame, and now let the highest legislative branch of power punish them. That's exactly what this law does. It's a disaster, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u863	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making, please? [[...]] Procedurally, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u864	Mr Pojbič had an explanation, but he did not say at all how he would vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u865	At first, he said. More explanation for the voice? Mr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u866	Thank you so much for saying that. I know it's an early hour, but let's face it. Do you know what you're suggesting in the opposition? Here we are a legislative body, and you suggest that a law in a congregation should not be in force. This is as if they suggested that in a municipality the traffic signs or registration of vehicles are not valid for them to work there on their own. Let's face it, please. This amendment cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u867	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u868	It would be wise for Members to warn them to read what the subject of the debate is before they discuss it. This law will also apply in the congregation of Rogasovci. Moreover, citizens and businesses will pay this tax. The beneficiaries of this tax will be other municipalities and countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u869	What was your procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach? [[advertising from the hall]] No, listen, you've reached out to the procedural proposal and I must at least warn you that you have violated the rules of procedure. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision, namely to vote on the amendment under Article 3, paragraph 24, of the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 26, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Mr Matevž Frangež has a procedural basis before this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u870	Mr President, I know that there are only two amendments that separate us from the end of the real estate tax vote, which we have been voting on for exactly 12 and a half hours, but I would still like to suggest that we slightly rationalise the approach, which would be my procedural proposal to open up a round of explanations at any decision and at the same time call on all those who intend to explain their vote to register in this first round. I know it's a little unusual, but let me just say it's a little unusual for the Slovenian Parliament to be sitting at 3:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u871	Thank you. This procedural proposal will not be feasible, because if interest is also after the first round, it will be necessary to give an opportunity to explain the vote. He's got the word "magic" right now. Andrej Šircelj to explain the vote of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u872	Thank you very much, President. It may be a little unusual to discuss the matter at this hour in the National Assembly, but the topic is still very important. Even when we explain our voice, this is part of the debate, depending on how each word is understood. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the transitional provisions, we propose that the tax base be set at 80% of the general market value. It is now set at 85. Among other things, this is due mainly to the fact that the real estate market is now dead because prices are falling, and also to the fact that the value of individual properties will be assessed by international organisations, this value will fall significantly. In order for taxpayers to pay as much as possible a real price and a real tax as possible, we propose that this transitional provision lays down a tax base of 80 % of the total property value.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u873	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm guessing not, so we're moving on to a decision. We vote on the amendment of Article 26 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the first and second amendments to Article 27. The first amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the second amendment by the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The amendments are identical and we will vote on both at the same time. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mag. Andrey Shircelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u874	Thank you very much. The transitional provisions set out the revenue belonging to the Republic of Slovenia or to the Republic budget on the one hand and, on the other hand, the revenue belonging to the municipalities. Here is the relationship, and in this connection it is also stipulated that property insurance, if we are talking about Article 15, we have to go back to Article 15, because this article also refers to Article 15. This is an article that provides for the insurance of liabilities or so-called tax credit. The taxable person referred to in Article 15 may secure his tax debt with property in the municipality. However, since in this case, in these transitional three years, this tax belongs to the Republic or to the Republic budget, it is provided in this Article that the property set up to pay the tax debt also belongs to the Republic. We are against it, and in this connection we propose deleting this article. After all, there has already been a debate on what will happen to this article and what will happen to this insurance, the danger of nationalisation, the prohibition of alienation and so on. This is now easy for the next three years transferred to the Republic. We propose that this does not happen and that paragraph 27 be deleted as a result.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u875	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr Pukšič, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u876	Thank you very much. The Slovenian People's Party also proposed an amendment to Article 27 to delete Article 27. This is a liability insurance in 2014, 2015 and 2016, of course in relation to Article 15, where the tax authority will be able to recover, or so on, the real estate burden for those who will not be able to bear that burden. We have already said today that citizens and citizens have decided against all social transfers and aid because they could have decided not to accept this at the expense of the property. This is also due to the fact that these properties in the Republic of Slovenia were created in some other way, by some other formula than elsewhere, in other countries. That is why this is the specificity of our citizens and citizens, who are largely property owners. In other countries, they are much more tenants than owners. But since this is only about insurance in 2014, 2015 and 2016, it would make sense to delete Article 27 in conjunction with Article 15, because I believe that after a change in the government coalition in the previous elections in the National Assembly, there will be a coalition that will have a sense of the whole of Slovenia, a sense of citizens and citizens and a sense of the countryside, that it will be aware that people are values, not costs, that they will be aware of the need to invest in them, but that they will not be burdened to realize that they are standing or falling on people, and that they will be aware that citizens and citizens are not only when you ask them for votes in elections, but also when you manage the country. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the deletion of Article 27 under these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u877	Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm guessing not, so we're moving on to a decision. We are voting on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. The amendments are identical, so we are voting on both amendments together. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Believe it or not, we ended up voting on the amendments and second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 4, 5, 8, 11, 17 and 20 of the amended bill. I therefore ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this article. I give my word to Mr Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u878	Thank you very much. As we have predicted, we will present the amendments at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u879	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u880	Thank you so much for saying that. We are also predicting that we will submit to an open article of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u881	Thank you. I give Lord Bogovich my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u882	We'll table the amendments, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u883	Thank you. Given that the proposed amendments for the third reading are, I am terminating this item of the agenda, which we will continue immediately after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Energy Bill. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for an energy law is suitable for further consideration. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the 2014 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Before we move to a decision, let me warn you that the President of the Government is a magician. Alenka Bratušek, on the adoption of the 2014 draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, fully linked the issues of the Secretary-General to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as provided for in the last sentence of Article 117, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 258 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government has proposed that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for amending the budget. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 31. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for amending the budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which I will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2013 We are moving to the budget user 1540 – Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality. Under point 1, we decide on the amendment of the Commission for National Communities to the sub-programme Support to minorities. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National List and DeSUS to the sub-programme Support for Minorities. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1711 – Ministry of the Interior. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Support for Local Self-Government and the coordination of the state and local levels. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1714 – Police and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. We first decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to the sub-programme Public Order and General Security of People and Property. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 48. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on amendments to the sub-programme Criminal Activity. Under point 1, we decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the sub-programme Criminal activities. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u884	Thank you very much. Good morning to the entire government or to those who are here! We have a long day and a night ahead of us, and perhaps the amendment, which is to promote or facilitate the activities of the criminal service, is just right for the government to wake up, because the government has foreseen a significant reduction in resources for the criminal service in the draft budget balance. This means that he does not want to prosecute economic crime and general crime, organised associations in this country, despite the fact that the country has been looted, that it was taken from banks, according to Professor Secretary, 11 billion euros. She has no interest in bringing some of that money back. That would be the best-paid money. But you're not in the will of the government, and that's extremely sad because it means you support what happened in our banks and through the tycoons. Unfortunately, we must find that there is still a thirst between the tycoons in Slovenia and the current government, or we would certainly be interested, as our other citizens would in ending this monstrous practice in our country. Madam President of the Government, I am extremely disappointed that something such as this could happen that you give such a symbolic sign to this organised crime that you are not prepared to persecute our country, you are not prepared to return this money. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Kociper, take care of your own problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u885	Mr Jerovšek, do not be argumentative, because it is an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u886	You heard her. I believe that the comfort of the present power is that no one listens and that they will silence what was said by the opposition. But this is extremely important, for otherwise the people will force you to pay attention. Such pishmeuhar behavior is inappropriate. Therefore, the coalition, I ask you to support this amendment, so that at least at the symbolic level we will move you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u887	There is still an interest in explanations of vote, so I suggest you apply for explanations of vote on your behalf. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u888	Thank you very much. I was a little concerned at Mr Jerovsk's performance and the giggling that I would not use any ugly expression, the President of the Government and the ministers. It's our amendment, and I'll back him up so there won't be any trouble at the end. But I have to say, President, given that you're here, that when I left the interior ministry, about 400 vehicles were planned there to buy them. But there was a problem with the money on the payroll. You made sure of everything on the payroll, but nothing will help, you know, if we have 8,000 500 cops and criminals who don't have cars. I don't know if you know that the average age is 8 years. I don't know if you know it's 200 thousand kilometers on average. I don't know how you're going to feel about everyone else, the ministers and you personally when you have a protected person somewhere behind Brannik who's gonna get a bike down. Because it's 200 thousand kilometers out there, even on your car, that's right. That is why this amendment must be supported, and I ask for the support of this amendment. I could not imagine that we could go under the amount of money provided for material costs and investments this year, but I can see that you went to the most sensitive point – it is a criminal activity. On the other hand, I listen to a minister who boasts at every turn that he is gone — what does he say? That it's no longer untouchable and so on. I think they'll come back if it doesn't work out differently, at least if we don't invest certain funds in criminal equipment, police equipment and so on. Good morning to a group of sleeping ministers. I hope you saw them in the media.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u889	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the sub-programme Criminal Activity. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2 we decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to the sub-programme Criminal activities. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1811 – Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to the sub-programme Economic Cooperation. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u890	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam President of the Government, ministerial assembly, I welcome you all very much on behalf of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats! We will support this amendment because we strongly support economic cooperation within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Several times, colleagues and colleagues, including the Committee on Foreign Policy and other Committees of the National Assembly, note that Slovenia is too closed to say hermetically closed. We need to open up, and it is within the framework of international development cooperation that we have the opportunity to open ourselves up, so that the world knows us, to establish economic contacts with other countries, to attract investors as well. Mr President, if you'll excuse me at this point, because we're with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, let me say something. I must say that as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy and as President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I am extremely disappointed. The two committees adopted very good decisions for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the two related to the transfer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Finance of the International Members of the Republic of Slovenia of items from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Finance, without any reduction in the resources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. No one will convince us that the membership of the Republic of Slovenia for the UN is a matter and activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is a matter of the Republic of Slovenia. Why am I disappointed? Because we didn't get any e-mails from the government or from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and we didn't get any e-mails, and I don't know what. Or thank you, for example, we don't need – at least I don't need any thanks, but we've been working to make the Ministry of Foreign Affairs good because it's currently going bad because of financial matters. Here is my comment, and no one will ever teach me that the Committee on Foreign Policy is the one who is taking the direction of Slovenian foreign policy. It's not because you don't listen to us. New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats will support this amendment, and I invite you to follow us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u891	Thank you. Can we vote? We vote on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to the sub-programme Economic Cooperation. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a budget user in 1912 – the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the sub-programme Operation of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance System. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Hrvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u892	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Council of Ministers, Minister of Defense! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment, which we have also proposed. You, as Minister of Defence or the Government, have fully demonstrated where your priorities are, as far as budgeting is concerned. We are disappointed in the Slovenian Democratic Party because you have decided to take substantial funds from the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue. Above all, we are disappointed in our party that you have decided to reduce the item Co-financing the purchase of firefighting, rescue and protection equipment for voluntary firefighting companies to EUR 0. This is the first time since the VAT refund for voluntary firefighting companies was established in 2003, and this represents a significant reduction in safety. On the other hand, you have also decided to reduce a considerable amount of funding for co-financing of the activities of organisations, societies and institutions. You have decided that in the budget you have proposed, you will reduce by 10% the co-financing of the activities of the fire brigades of the wider importance of reducing by 7% the funds for the Firefighters Association of Slovenia, the Mountain Rescue Union of Slovenia, the Jamarska Association of Slovenia, the underwater rescue association, the cinemalogists, the Union of Rescue Dogs of Slovenia, the Union of Camporniks of Slovenia and so on. What's particularly in your eyes is that you're also reducing funds for intermediaries in the event of traffic accidents in tunnels. You have decided, Mr. Minister or Government as such, that you will take substantial resources from the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue. Please - I now turn to you, honourable Members and Members - that you are the one who prevent this reduction of security for citizens and citizens and to support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which returns EUR 3 million to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue. This also increases the security of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u893	Thank you very much. Since you have been more interested in explaining your vote on behalf of the groups of Members, I invite you to apply for explanations of vote. Excuse me? The explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members is now. If anyone has applied in their own name, I will not give you my word, because first of all it is the time to explain the vote on behalf of the groups of Members. I will ask directly: who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr Möderndorfer on behalf of the Positive Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u894	Thank you very much, President. We have heard an explanation from the SDS Group, and at the outset, let me say that this reduction does not in any way mean, as has been presented, any particular danger concerning the intervention of organisations in the field of protection and rescue as well as firefighting units in the event of traffic accidents, mountain rescue services and rescue in the mountains. But it is true, and that is why we have also agreed in coalition parliamentary groups that the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters adopted in 2009 could reject these means of further development, as far as the purchase of basic funds is concerned. Therefore, the coalition parties have agreed together to support this SDS party amendment, and this proposal is also supported by the Minister of Defence. So much so there won't be a misunderstanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u895	Thank you. Mr Franz Puksič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u896	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, ministerial assembly, nice greetings in these early morning hours! If it were late, you would say that you are tired or tired, but now we are fresh because it is early hours, so in the Slovenian People's Party we expect that you will give the green light to your coalition Members, that 3 million euros is not such an item in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, that without it could not be survived. This is a replacement or VAT refund for the purchase of firefighting equipment. We know how they were made, we know how the equipment is procured. To a large extent, this equipment is procured by firefighting companies by means of the sale of calendars, voluntary contributions, through voluntary actions carried out by them. Part of this is also contributed by municipal budgets, and one part was the VAT refund. In view of the events in the last 8 months, the government of Alenka Bratušek, when at least 10 times it has intervened in one way or another, or through laws or through other regulations, in the tax actions of both citizens and local communities, is running out of citizens as well as local communities. If the real estate tax law is passed, then we'll probably close down local communities. Many of the assets of our citizens and citizens will go into some tycoon stories, and thus we will destroy voluntary fire. However, firefighters and firefighters are the ones who need both education and equipment. When we need them — when it is most difficult for us when we are in danger. At that time, they risk their personal lives to preserve the property and lives of these citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, I know specific cases where some have lost their lives in rescue operations. It is not easy, such events do not bring smiles to the faces and lips, but sadness and tears to the eyes. However, ministerial council, give your consent to the government coalition to accept this amendment with a balanced amendment [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u897	Thank you. Mr. Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u898	Thank you very much. We will support this amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party for a very simple reason in the Civil Gazette: because it is not worthy and does not apply to Slovenian firefighting, that there is nothing planned on this item. Slovenian firefighting deserves this, and, as it is said, we will support this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u899	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u900	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Group of Members will be happy to support this amendment. We welcome the Government's decision to give the green light to its Members or vice versa. It would be too much, colleagues and colleagues, to sum up all the negative effects that would affect Slovenian firefighting. Now this negative effect will not be, but remains, at least for me, an extremely bitter blow after Slovenian voluntary firefighting, which will have to pay, under the property tax law, a tax on firehouses, except for those owned by voluntary firefighting companies – unless lawyers decide otherwise. It's important to know which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u901	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please listen to me in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u902	Thank you very much, Mr President, for bringing peace. It will be necessary to know, and lawyers will have to decide which law is in charge, whether the Firearms Act is in charge of the real estate tax or vice versa. Only then will we be able to say whether the tax will be exempt from at least those firehouses owned by voluntary fire companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u903	Thank you. Ms Ljubica Jelusic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u904	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning to you all, especially to our ministerial assembly and also to the President of the Government! On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I should like to attach to what the Head of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia has said, Mr Möderndorfer, that we will also support this amendment. This is an amendment that is expected to bring 3 million funds into one of the sub-programmes of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue. There are two subroutines on board. One concerns the readiness of the protection and rescue system and the other discusses the functioning of the protection, rescue and assistance system. When it comes to the issue of operation, we have before us a whole range of voluntary firefighters and other rescue units, mountain rescuers, cave rescuers, rescuers with dogs, first aid groups, the Red Cross and so on – even a variety of different rescue units whose development and equipment must be at least partially co-financed by the state, because a large number of volunteers participating in these units, with nothing other than "thanks beautiful", do not recover their efforts in cases of natural and other accidents. Therefore, assistance in their equipment is so important. I'd like to draw your attention to another specialty. Some critics have heard that fire brigades around the country have pretty good equipment and that this equipment is poorly used or less used than it could have been. I must point out that the sub-programme is the operation of a system for protection, rescue and assistance when it comes to co-financing rescue equipment for the uniform development and equipment of either all fire brigades in general or firefighting units of wider importance and other rescue units. It is a matter of achieving an even development of all these units at national level, both in those municipalities that have very much money, and especially in those who have less money and rely on the assistance of the state. That's why we're going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u905	Thank you. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u906	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the president and all the ministers and ministers! On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, it is correct to say that we will also support this amendment. I would also like to point out that in a way within the work of the National Assembly and in the Defence Committee, firefighters are my special specialty because I belong to Slovenian firefighters. Slovenian firefighters are doing a lot for the country itself and for firefighting by their diligence, continuous efforts and fund-raising and huge voluntary work. Without theirs [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr President, I'd like to ask you to keep your voice down. I know it's hard to sit here all day yesterday and it's almost four o'clock this morning, but it would still show that we're trying to listen to ourselves, to bring the matter to an end. In order not to take too much time, because colleague Möderndorfer has already said that we will support this amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party with a view to all of us, together with the Government and with the Minister, the Slovenian Firefighter, and we also want to support them to the extent that we have done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u907	Thank you, too. Can we vote? We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Excuse me? Is the explanation of the vote still in its own name? I invite you to apply for an explanation of vote on your own behalf. Mrs Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u908	I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u909	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u910	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am certainly pleased with today's decision by the coalition Members and Members to convince you of our arguments and to support the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment. Mrs Potrata, you can hold your head, but yesterday, in the general debate, you opposed our proposal, and something changed overnight. It is regrettable that only the Ministry of Defence, as such and Minister Jakič, did not see this at the time of the preparation or submission of the budget of the Ministry of Defence itself. Only on the basis of pressure did your decision come about. I am happy for all voluntary security and rescue systems. As Mrs Ljubica Jelusič said, this is not only about firefighters, but it is about all those who are voluntarily involved in the system of protection and rescue. Let me warn you one more thing. If there was no co-financing, it might be possible for these voluntary teams to purchase equipment beyond the criteria, and this would be very bad, since we would then evaluate the entire system, the quality of equipment and the safety of our voluntary members of protection and rescue. So once again, thank you for your support. I believe that you will be particularly grateful for the volunteers.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u911	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u912	For it. Take the length to set an example.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u913	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? Not yet. In your own name, you can explain your voice. Check in. Mrs. Alenka Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u914	I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u915	Mrs. Sasha Kos has the floor. He doesn't want a word. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u916	Thank you very much. This pressure on the button is a little hypocritical, so that whoever has something to say shouldn't. But well, look, 3 million euros for firefighters. I welcome that. I'll be in, there's no doubt, so I'll tell you how I'm going to vote. But what you've done is called hypocrisy. As hypocrisy is called, what you said about property tax in humanitarian organizations. What's going on? Not at first, all the media write about this, but after voting, they know exactly what you will do, as you did in humanitarian organizations — three hours earlier, you communicated your work to your client’s publisher, who has already announced that this will be accepted. They know that in advance. It's called a maneuver in agreement with the media that always follows you anyway. And then the beautiful coalition that gave 3 million firefighters won't collect taxes from humanitarian organizations. That's like saying, "I'll give you a candy, and I'll steal your $5 million." That's hypocritical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u917	Thank you, Mr. Gorenak. But this amendment is proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Gorenak. Mr Jerko Čehovin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u918	Saint Florian's gonna love you. I'll back you up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u919	Thank you. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u920	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! So will I, with a fireman's greeting, "Help!"and I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u921	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u922	Thank you. As I have explained in this consideration of the amendment, even now – with great respect for Slovenian firefighters. This respect was shown by the coalition by supporting your amendment, by supporting also the amendment that stipulates that firehouses do not pay property taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u923	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Operation of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance System. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2330 – Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. Can we vote? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u924	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear ministerial team, distinguished president! I'm glad we supported the previous amendment. This amendment is some logical continuation that is being implemented in practice. This is the reallocation of resources from the items Sustainable water use and water management, specific management of waste water, to the item Disaster mitigation, within the Ministry of Environment and Space. This means that we do not interfere with the budget itself and that we generally do not change any items in the budget. It is simply a redeployment within the Ministry itself. The reason why I propose this is that I would like to save this ministry and this government the costs they will have if projects and work are stopped in order to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. These are ongoing projects and activities, contrary to the heading on which the funds are to be taken, which will only be carried out in the future if they do. For waste water management projects, project documentation, building permits and so on must first be obtained. Therefore, I think it makes sense at this point to redistribute this item and to allow work to be done to remedy the consequences of natural disasters – in the aftermath of floods, in the aftermath of storms – to continue on the beaches of a large scale and also on the earthquake recovery without any stops and without unnecessary costs of stopping construction sites, paying compensation to construction operators and even unnecessary conflicts in the environment, as well as unnecessary bad will within local communities, where they are already hit by natural disasters. I think it would make sense that this coalition would also support this in the spirit of trying to ensure some meaningful budget utilisation, and that it would not allocate funds to pay, as I said, the closure of construction sites, the payment of damages to construction operators and other costs arising from this title. In view of the great understanding you have shown in the previous amendment, I think it would also make sense to make this amendment, which, as I said, does not affect the budget in the general sense, but is only a reallocation, because of the content I have presented, on your part to support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u925	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Samo Bevk will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u926	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! This area is really undernourished. Our finances are also being fed. If we are talking, say, only about the recovery of earthquake damage in 2004 – next year will be the 10th anniversary – we would need about 3 million euros to settle matters. Otherwise, the Minister has assured us that he will meet with all the mayors of the entire area affected. I think that the first meeting will be next Tuesday and then further in December and January, when they will review the situation for all areas affected by floods and other natural disasters. So I hope that when the President of the Government gets it tonight, or in the morning or in the morning, that the coalition will reconsider how to solve the area of natural disasters, because things have been dragging too long, and I think that needs to be resolved. Because of this reallocation of funds, losing 100 million euros in cohesion aid, I cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u927	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u928	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! My colleague Bevk has disappointed me with this presentation on how they will vote on this amendment. I was sure that the coalition had changed its mind from yesterday to today. At least that's how I felt, Comrade Bevk, when we discussed it yesterday at [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u929	Mr. Prevc, there is an explanation for the vote, so I suggest you don't compromise.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u930	I think it's this amendment that needs to be adopted. It's not about the big money. The point is that many of the reptiles that are already under way will fail. As my colleague has already mentioned before me, this means that the ministry will have to spend significantly more money on the rehabilitations that will take place due to unscanned beaches at this time. So, coalition, now is the time to vote for this amendment. I think it will be too late after the budget is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u931	Thank you. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? [[He doesn't want to.]] In your own name? I suggest you sign up for an explanation of vote. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u932	Thanks again for saying that. Once again, I would like to point out that this is not a breakdown of the budget, but a reallocation. Otherwise, it was my colleague's explanation that if this happens, it will happen once in the future, but I did not point out only one segment within the removal of the consequences of natural disasters, but the whole that you are putting in an unequal position with the other items by this budget. This is a reduction of more than 70% on this item, which is not comparable to the others in the budget. Once again, I stress the fact that we are doing more harm than good with this reallocation, but above all it is necessary to realize that natural disasters are a daily phenomenon, and if we do not address these consequences, these costs will increase further in the next phase. It is pointless to keep one item in the budget that can be realised by the end of next year and at the same time to neglect the ongoing projects. I hope you understand that, and here I also appeal to the President of the Government, whom I believe he understands some logic that must also take place within the budget. This is the liquidity that we have to provide on some projects and not keep some items in stock, but eventually it may not even happen and someone will say: yes, because with the next balance we will put in place to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. I don't think this logic is good enough to lead to good solutions, and it will increase the cost and expenditure of this budget. Therefore, once again, I appeal to all of you to support this amendment, and the Ministry can still – given that it is a reallocation within one of the departments, if the Minister finds that he cannot fully implement it, he can still redistribute these funds himself to another item. This ensures the continuity of the implementation of these works, which are currently being carried out, not once in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u933	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision? Another explanation for the voice, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u934	Thank you so much for saying that. I do not think it is right that there are such blind items in the budget that are reserved for some events that will not happen, and on the other hand there is no money where things are currently going. We got to one of those positions yesterday, and now it's here, according to the explanation, the other position, and that's not right. The other problem is that we are listening here, so that after the budget is adopted, some talk and some move. The correct solution is to place the budget items in such a way that they are operational and can be implemented. We can't agree to some solution, where then something is being arranged, moved, guided and so on, and all these main purposes, which are defined in the budget and about which we are wasting our time here, are then completely deformed and changed. I support the proposal that the items in the budget should be made in the way that it makes sense that projects can take place, that funds are reserved and that projects can run. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u935	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme to address the consequences of natural disasters. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2430 – Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Maintenance of Public Railway Infrastructure. Can we make a decision? Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u936	Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The fact is, in order to maintain the public economic service in the field of rail transport, it is necessary to provide €70 million annually in order to maintain the quality condition of the upper and lower structures on the railways themselves. Let me remind you once again that this is a public economic service for rail transport. This drastic reduction in resources puts this public economic service within a dangerous framework. I doubt that the Minister will somehow be satisfied with this or that he will take certain measures. These measures will be drastic, certain parts of railways will have to be cut off in the Slovenian space, and the second alternative is to slow down most of the rail transport to slow down rail transport in Slovenia. So our amendment foresees 50 million to manage the public economic service, and this is the minimum that it takes to keep this public economic service at the level it is now at.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u937	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u938	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment, but I have another criticism here. On the Infrastructural Committee, which is very quality managed by colleague Samo Bevk, we prepared a decision very carefully and addressed it to the Government. In this Decision, we recommend that the Government provide €50 million for rail infrastructure as well as for maintenance of state roads for each year, for 2014 and for 2015 as well. We did not get any answers, so I no longer know, colleagues and colleagues, whether we have parliamentary democracy or a government dictatorship in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u939	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision? Mr Jože Tanko has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u940	Thank you very much. The extension of the railway line from Ribnica to Kočev is also an integral part of this amendment. If the area of Kočev is to be opened and the railway line can be used, the traffic needs to be unloaded, then means must also be provided to complete this line. In 2006, for the first time in the guarantee law, this item was introduced in — a partial renewal — and later added from other sources, but until there is a systemic source, the budgetary source, it cannot be seriously calculated that this project will be completed in a physical sense. I suggest you support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u941	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Maintenance of Public Railway Infrastructure. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we turn to the vote on the amendments to the sub-programme Management and on-going maintenance of state roads. Under point 1, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Management and Current Maintenance of State Roads. Can we make a decision? Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u942	Your Honor! In this segment, the situation is similar to that of railways or is even more critical. I'd say it's completely unserious from a professional point of view. Here the funds are falling by 90%, from €82 million on pins to €8 million. This is a completely unprofessional, unrestrained approach and attitude towards Slovenian main and regional roads. On the other hand, we are advocates of safety, quality of transport. But the position of the Ministry – I do not know who those experts, the expert advisors of the minister were to advise him on such an anomaly in relation to Slovenian main and regional roads. Given that it is the same or similar in 2015, this means that after two years the situation on Slovenian roads will be alarming. Then don't wonder where the safety is. We know exactly who the culprits are. Such an insurmountable approach to Slovenian road infrastructure is indeed a professional absurdity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u943	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u944	Nice greeting, esteemed Prime Minister! Good morning, especially Mr. Virant! We will also support this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party. We have a similar amendment with this user. Experts who assist the Ministry, namely the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, have very clearly demonstrated on the Infrastructure Committee how big the problem is if what is now recorded in the budget document is achieved – that Slovenian roads will be without maintenance, without investment funds. Indeed, he said that security on Slovenian roads is very threatened and, on the other hand, the problem is that the whole range of investments that have been started will be interrupted. In this way we also give a very bad message to Slovenian construction, the start of the economy in Slovenia. We are convinced that because of the situation in which Slovenian roads are located, because this is the way in which the Government can help start the economy with such investment funds, it is appropriate that at least one of these two amendments be adopted. We support the first and second amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u945	Can we make a decision? We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of state roads. The amendment is set out in point 1. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of state roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Under point 1, we decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the first amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 3, we decide on the second amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Monetary Reimbursement Sub-programme for the unemployed. Can we make a decision? Ms Alenka Jeraj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u946	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would be very pleased to see the government's forecasts of reducing unemployment. With trends and forecasts that are quite bad, and with all the destructive measures that you are taking, it is unlikely that this will be the case. While the Minister says that unemployment is declining, this can only be said because it compares incomparable and does not take into account the seasonal fluctuations and changes that occur when students show up at the end of their studies at the Employment Institute. That's bad. On the unemployment allowance item, you are reducing funds by, as I said, forecasts and trends that show that this will not be the case. There are still no new jobs in view, so we are assessing that we should provide more resources on the unemployment compensation line. If these people have already lost their jobs, it is only right that they receive at least their compensation and get through that time to the new job that we hope they will get it as soon as possible. We therefore propose an amendment that will remedy this and propose that you support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u947	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We move to a vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to the monetary compensation sub-programme for the unemployed. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the scholarship sub-programme. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u948	Good morning to all, including the representatives of the government! Our amendment is primarily intended to comply with the Media Act. This Article 4a provides for the development of programme content for radio and television programmes with the status of local, regional and student or non-profit radio or television programmes to be allocated an amount corresponding to 3 % of the amount of the RTV contribution. In 2012, for example, for information, almost €92 million was collected, and given that the Government is taking or lowering funds under the legal heading on this item, we think the budget is in line with the legislation in force. Therefore, it would certainly be appropriate to support this. Many parliamentary groups, as well as members of the Committee on Culture, took part in the meeting of the Committee on Culture, when several other guests called for this, together with programmes of particular importance – RTV Slovenia and local, regional, student and non-profit programmes – represent one quarter of all radio and television programmes. Here let me just say that the Chamber of Commerce has also turned to the Parliamentary Groups of the National Assembly, and just to list the broadcasters of television programmes of particular importance, whose existence we want to ensure with our amendment: Your TV Velenje, Your channel Novo mesto, RTS Maribor, ATV Signal Lithuania, Gorenjska TV, Channel 10 Murska Sobota, Media TV Škofja Loka, TV Celje, TV AS Murska Sobota, ITV Ljubljana, Charlie TV Ljubljana. Then there are radio programs: Koroški radio, Murski val, Radio Celje, Radio Kranj, Radio Kum, Radio Ptuj, Radio Slovenske gorica, Štajerski val, Alpine wave, Radio Gorenc, Radio Odmev, Radio Robin, Sora, Triglav, Univox Kočevje, Radio Velenje and Radio Ognjište and Radio Student. If we accept the mentioned amendment, we will ensure that the media landscape throughout Slovenia is at least at this level as it is today, and that it is not only at the level dedicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u949	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture. Under point 1, we decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture. Can we make a decision? Mr Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u950	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will support this amendment, and I also ask other colleagues and colleagues to support this amendment. For 2015, I should say that the Government has only listened to one half of the proposed amount to a similar amendment. My friend Chuš has been very precise in defining and explaining a very similar amendment, but I want to say something else. When the Parliamentary delegation of the National Assembly, led by the President of the National Assembly, was in Hungary this autumn, we presented the problem of financing bilingual schools in the Republic of Poland. He said, "Now that we have this discussion, I have a government meeting, and at this government meeting, I will solve this problem of funding." And he saved him, for every school, I think 15,000 euros. In two hours, the problem in the Hungarian government was resolved. Why am I talking about this? This is because the media concerned by this amendment from Pomurje also covers the lives of the Slovenians. I think we understand what I'm talking about, and so I think we need to listen first, and so much more so if the Hungarian government has listened to our demands when it comes to the Slovenians in Use. That is why I am asking for support from this amendment, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u951	Thank you. Can we make a decision? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u952	There are two amendments to this user. One is on the side of our parliamentary group, so I will also explain our amendment at the amendment of New Slovenia and give support to both your amendment and the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. The media are an important part of society, and from experience I can say calmly that the voice of regional media is very important, especially in view of the fact that there is sometimes some good news going through on the regional media, while unfortunately national media are more susceptible to the affair and to what is happening in society. Unfortunately, they have enough material for their work, so that really good news does not come into the national media anymore. That is why I think it would be good for the state of the spirit in this country if pluralism in the media were to be supported by allowing more resources to be made available through such an amendment to the regional media. I think this will be a good investment, so I suggest you support the first or second amendment. I'll support each other myself if we vote on both.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u953	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We move to a vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture under point 1. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party to the sub-programme Media and Audiovisual Culture. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending the budget as a whole. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 31. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that a specific part of the proposal for amending the budget has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 32. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the proposal for amending the budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the state budget proposal for revenue and expenditure is harmonised. The word is Minister Chufer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u954	No, due to the amendments adopted to the specific part of the 2014 draft amending budget, the budget is not harmonised and a harmonisation amendment needs to be drawn up. The government needs 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u955	Thank you. On the basis of the Government's opinion, I note that the proposal for amendments to the state budget is not harmonised. By 4 p.m. and 45 minutes, the government should prepare an amendment to harmonise the draft amendments to the state budget. Until the amendment of the Government, a mother's working body will also be identified. The meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will be held at 5 p.m. in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Procedurally, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u956	Mr President, I ask if we could keep going to the 2015 budget. Don't you? Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u957	It won't work. So, the board meets at 5 p.m. in the big hall in Tomsicheva. I'm breaking this agenda. I also interrupt the 47th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5 p.m. and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u958	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, this is by addressing and voting on the Government's amendment to harmonise the Draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. The mother's working body held a meeting. The report of the committee is published on the e-club. I ask if the Government's representative would like a word with regard to the Government's amendment. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the representative of the parent working body who addressed the harmonisation amendment? I give the floor to Mr. Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u959	Good morning, everyone! Pursuant to Article 42 and Article 166, paragraph 7, and subject to the reasonable application of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as the parent working body, has prepared an additional report to the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 [[This ……]] EPA 1466. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 73rd emergency meeting. 11. 2013 as a parent working body treated the harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the 2014 Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the 2014 Draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government has prepared an amendment to harmonise the draft amending budget in individual parts. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the draft amending budget, there is a need to harmonise the overall work and harmonise and amend the development programme plan. The Committee supported the harmonisation amendment in the text, as proposed by the Government, and proposes to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u960	Thank you. I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Before we move to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the draft amending budget, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the seventh paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 will not be adopted unless the harmonisation amendment is adopted. This would make the Government untrustworthy in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the proposal for changes to the state budget. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 29. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 as a whole. Since the President of the Government, at the time of adoption of the 2014 draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, fully linked the question of the confidentiality, the adoption of the amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 will consider that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been elected as a confidant. On the basis of Article 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal for amendments will be adopted if it is voted on by a majority of the Members present, the so-called ordinary majority. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? I propose that you apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Pavlišič will explain the position of the Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u961	Thank you for your word. In the Citizens' List, we will support the 2014 draft amending budget. The President of the Government not only gives her a hand in hand, but we also extend her responsibility. We hope that the whole Government will understand our support in terms of the high expectations we have regarding the necessary, urgent measures. We're being kind today, tomorrow we're not going to be any more, not because we want to guess [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u962	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u963	Not because we would like to tease, but because we are aware that only by hard and serious work can we take a tangible step forward. Honourable Prime Minister, dear Alenka, good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u964	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u965	Thank you very much. Good morning, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, ministers, distinguished President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! It's a busy night. For some, it is a hard week, for most of the ministerial assembly, and also a hard six months. Six months after the government took over, it has worked bloodyly, made important decisions, difficult decisions, and I believe that they will also result in the following year, that we will take Slovenia on the roads it deserves. The guarantor is the Prime Minister with the ministerial team, but of course, without the coalition's support, it won't work. I wish all of us good luck, and I want us to have much more success, and especially a lot of social atmosphere. Thank you very much. To remember, the budget will be supported and we will support the confidence of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u966	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u967	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly! The New Slovenia Group cannot support changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. We saw for ourselves that there was a lot of embarrassment in the coalition, many times we saw clenched teeth, that colleagues and colleagues of the coalition had pressed, decided, even though they were not satisfied with the decisions. We're not happy either. Let me tell you something else. Let me remind you that, let's say, at least a little more hygienic, if one day, two people would wait for today's decision. Why am I saying this? Because in the European Union this May, the European legislative package, the twin "two pack", entered into force, which requires national governments to send their draft budgets to the European Commission for an opinion. And today, 15 November 2013, the Commission will adopt opinions on the draft budgetary plans submitted by 13 euro area Member States. 4 countries with macroeconomic assistance programmes are not included. Indeed, there is still no practice in the area of the euro area. I have checked that, however, most countries are waiting for a final decision on the budget documents for the following year. We're kind of in a hurry. It would be, as we say, the least hygienic to see this report. To understand each other, colleagues and colleagues, I am the first person in this house to want this opinion to be good for Slovenia, because any bad signals have a very bad impact on Slovenia, on our atmosphere, not to talk about financial markets and so on. That's our comment. I am, however, firing the Government for not waiting for this opinion from the European Commission, because this is the beginning. But I want this to not happen again in the future. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group will vote against the changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u968	Thank you, too. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u969	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Prime Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State and Secretary! We will not support the 2014 budget changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The first reason we are not going to do this is because this budget is unrealistic. It is unrealistic, for the first time, because it does not include certain expenditure resulting from an increase in wages and expenditure relating to the deleted. That's why he's being unrealistic. On the other hand, this budget does not include the money to which we will have to owe, real money, due to the rehabilitation of banks. This is just waiting for us, and it is likely to be the next 2014 budget change again. Nor does the budget show any privatisation money. It seems that this process has actually stopped or some people are doing it with a fig in their pocket, because, after all, they are saying publicly that privatisation is bad and not good. Finally, the budget is not based on the fact that it would adequately reduce other expenditure, which the government has finally promised to the European institutions, especially the European Commission, when it has entered into its programme to contribute to the deficit of this budget in two-thirds and one-third on the revenue side. What did the government do about what she might have promised? Nothing but raising taxes, from value added tax, income, to real estate tax, to increasing certain prices, prices of vineyards and so on. This will bring about approximately half a billion euros to the government's treasury, which means that every citizen or citizen of Slovenia will be additionally taxed for 250 euros. You don't know what to spend. There is no development, no hope that with this budget, which shows economic, social and economic policy, Slovenia will actually come out of the crisis. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the budget, nor will we support the trust of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u970	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u971	Dear President, the government and the choir! In Positive Slovenia, we took the highest responsibility when we decided to offer a prime minister, who also formed a successful government. In these months, for short months, Alenka Bratušek did what none of Slovenia’s governments could have imagined before – so that she could take such big steps in such a short time. But that's not enough, we all know that. In particular, when we talk about the budget for 2014 and 2015, we know that no one in this Chamber is really most pleased with it. One of you criticizes him for 12 hours and you don't even know what you're doing, and the other one knows we have very few options — what we've been given. We are convinced, however, that when the President of the Government tied her trust, she decided to tie her confidant to the most important document, and that is the budget. This made it clear whether we are going forward with this government or, in fact, saying that we are no longer going. I believe, and in Positive Slovenia we believe that the confidant will give this government even more responsibility, and this responsibility is to pull Slovenia out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u972	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u973	In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that Slovenia is in a difficult situation. We have also tried this as part of the coalition. It will be almost 8 months after 13 months of coalition operation, and during this time we are trying to work constructively together. I think that when we tried to change the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we wrote down changes to the Constitution regarding the referendum and also wrote down the fiscal rule. Since then, I can say that when this need for a two-thirds majority has been used, we have been repeatedly disappointed about how the Republic of Slovenia is run. Over the past few weeks, when we just can't hear each other anymore, we're ignoring ourselves, even in such a way that in one week, 70,000 votes won't touch anyone, and it's thought that we can pass them by as if they didn't happen. I think we need dialogue in Slovenia and we will need it in the coming months. You've had a hard time working this good six months. Through the documents you sent to Brussels, you have, to a large extent, realised what was adopted last year in the ZUJF. I'm afraid something on the expenditure side hasn't happened much more than that, and that this arsenal has somehow exhausted itself. You have been very good on the other side, where you have filled approximately 200 to 300 million new taxes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for half a year. I think that this game of new taxes has run out of date in all likelihood accepted, just hoping not to impose taxes on property. We're running out of reform packages. I have not heard you talk about which reforms would be adopted in the area of expenditure which would change the habits we have introduced in Slovenia in the last 20 years. The budget that now holds you together is the budget that is at stake. Today it's been heard of how many of these strangers there are. No budget has been objectively adopted in recent decades on such unknown grounds as it is in existence this year. Therefore, I firmly believe that if we went to vote after 13 months, after one year, as was said, the next March would be much more real and much more difficult. Until then, we have a hard job together, a trust that we should have in the IMF, the OECD, the Commission – I hope that we will also have it in the financial markets when we have to look for large amounts of money next spring. At that time, the confidential person would be much more realistic, much more oriented for two years. I congratulate you today on the fact that this has been said by the Group of Members, and I wish you good luck as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u974	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u975	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again a nice greeting to the President of the Government, ministers, ministers and also to you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, I must say that one nice period of hard work is behind us in the coordination of the budget or in the updating of the budget for 2014. At the same time, I must say that coordination has also taken place for the 2015 budget. We have before us the last act of this act, this is the vote on amending the 2014 budget. Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will confirm this budget. President of the Government, there is a new difficult period ahead of you in which a huge amount of energy will have to be invested in the rehabilitation of banks and the regulation of the economy. If you successfully lead these matters to the point that we will be able to say that Slovenia has come out of the crisis, I congratulate you in advance. Without the help of us sitting here – I mean the coalition in particular – and the imaginative cooperation of the opposition will not work. If we all come together, then Slovenia and all of us will have a beautiful future. Congratulations in advance, because I'm sure you'll get this confidence from us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u976	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? An explanation of the voice in your own name? I suggest you sign up for an explanation in your own name. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u977	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honorable Council of Ministers! Personal changes to the 2014 budget, the most important country document, will not be supported for several reasons. Firstly, this budget is unrealistic. It's already unrealistic assumptions and predictions. Let's just remember that it was made on Umar's forecast with a 0.8% decline in GDP. EBRD's latest forecast is 2.5. I estimate that it is unrealistic, since no expenditure is included for the non-coordinated salary imbalance, that expenditure is not covered for the compensations erased and that the maximum item is the recovery of the banking system. I'm guessing 1.2 billion won't be enough. It is problematic and worrying that this budget is assessed by some as socially oriented, while the economy and taxpayers will be taxed in 2014 with 550 million new taxes. The path you set yourself, the tax burden, the embezzlement is wrong and Slovenia will not lead you out of the crisis. Just a question for you, Madam President of the Government: when can we expect a budget rebalancing on 15 January or 1 February? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u978	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u979	Thank you very much. I will not support the 2014 budget. What is Slovenia's biggest problem at this time? A bank hole, an over-indebted economy, and another major problem is the lack of confidence in the legal system. The situation in our economy is shown by economists. Today, Madam President of the Government, you will receive a secret from the government coalition, which is from three parties. What would happen if on Wednesday, November 20, when economists sit together, they asked if you still deserved to be trusted, to lead the government forward? In view of what has been shown to be happening in our country, you would probably be told that 8 months has been enough to show that you simply don’t know or can’t. Not only in the opposition, but also experts, economists – Dr. Bogomir Kovac wrote: "Never in the last 15 years has there been as much uncertainty as the current budget." And you, Madam President, said, "With taxes we allow citizens to feel safe in their own country." God help such a statement! With the taxes you continue to pay, and you will probably also pass the real estate tax law, even though it is opposed to more than 70,000 people in this country, you will finally bury this country. I don't want any part of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u980	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Not yet. I invite you to apply for an explanation of vote on your own behalf. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u981	Dear President, the Honourable President of the Government with the Council of Ministers! The budget for the following year and for 2015 shall be adopted in relatively uncertain times. If anything is certain, it is certain that the outlook for the future is uncertain, and in such situations, when the economy is falling – namely, negative economic growth or economic decline – as our unemployment rate rises, I would expect that the first priority of this government is to raise economic activity, promote the economy and create new jobs. This is what Slovenia can bring from these unenviable times. Unfortunately, the budget document for next year and year is based on measures that hinder economic activity. Increasing taxes at all levels even after the recognition of the President of the Government and ministers will not have a positive impact on economic activity and not on new jobs, which means that this problem can only be deepened. It is also very important that this budget — you all know — does not fully cover the need to rehabilitate the banking system that we will hear at the end of this year. You know that 1.2 billion euros in balance sheet B will not be enough to rehabilitate the banking system, and you yourself know that this budget will not be feasible and that it is also detrimental to those who create this country and who are the only ones who can take this country out of the crisis. Therefore, I cannot support this budget in any way. I also cannot support such a policy that is stifling the economy and taxing the population.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u982	Thank you. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u983	Thank you very much. I can show myself "no" to this budget with several aspects. The government that took place in the first 14 days or in the first month has shown some way of the former government, which has somehow proved to be successful, especially in this sense — today we must be aware that the success or the confidence or confidence of some government is shown primarily by those who lend us money. Our profits, our 10-year bonds have grown at this point in total about 6,15%. And this is where this confidant or non-disclosure of the government appears. By borrowing money in the second year, which will be approximately 5 billion in the radius, at such a rate this country cannot continue its path and will, as such, fail economically. All I can say right now is that the budget deficit I'm forecasting will be within a radius of about 5.5 to 6%. The state has become permanently uncompetitive. In the last six months, you have not prepared any serious structural reform. The reform of the Slovenian school system was also urgently needed. We don't know what we would do with structurally unemployed people in our society. With new taxes in the first few months, you may have made up for something, and in the following year a terrible slip is expected. Above all, the Slovenian business environment is becoming permanently uncompetitive, and therefore we do not expect greater investment from foreign investors in the Slovenian environment. Also on the so-called disinvestment, the sale of state property, you have done nothing that would be a key solution at this time for the Slovenian budget. I'm predicting a break, so I can't give this budget some green light. I can give you some red light and a reminder to try something to do in that direction that I just directed you to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u984	Thank you. Can we make a decision? I note that no one has been reported for reasons of vote, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 31. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 31.]] In view of the outcome of the vote, I note that the changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 have been adopted and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore been elected as a confidant. Before concluding, we must also vote on the following proposal for a decision under Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The National Assembly authorises the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of Bojan Starman, the Member of Alojzi Potočnik, the Positive Slovenia, and the Member of Ivan Grill, the Slovenian Democratic Party, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service, on the basis of the decisions taken by the Council, to prepare the final text of the amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014. Can we vote on this decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Before I conclude this agenda item, I ask the President of the Government of Mags. Alenko Bratusek, if he wants to talk to the National Assembly. [[He does.]] You have the floor for the payphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u985	Thank you so much for saying that. First, my fellow Members and Members, I thank you for your support. I also thank the ministers of my government who have done good and hard work in six months. I thank the presidents of the coalition parties and the entire coalition that, despite the various programmes our parties have, we know and have always been able to find a compromise that is good for our country. The promise I made when I took over the government, I kept. I have also fulfilled my promise not to deal with the past, but to look to the future, and more importantly, it is that I will do everything that we can to solve our problems ourselves. We're right on this road. We solve our problems on our own. On Wednesday, the European Commission gave us the first confirmation that we are on our way. I am also very optimistic about what Slovenia will get tomorrow. The report will be presented tomorrow or today, I apologize — it has been behind us for quite some time. With such work as before, if we continue to do so, at the end of next year, we will certainly be recording positive economic growth in the second half of next year, even less unemployed. I believe that, in doing so, our governments will also soon feel the positive effects of our work. Once again, thank you Members, Members, the coalition and ministers and ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u986	Thank you, Mr. President, for your address. At the same time, congratulations to the elected confidant and with great wishes for the successful work of the Government in the future. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Can we decide? We are ahead of the decision on the general part of the 2015 supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2013 We are moving to budget user 1711 – Ministry of the Interior. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Support for Local Self-Government and the coordination of the state and local levels. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1714 – Police. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Criminal Activity. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a budget user in 1912 – the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the sub-programme Operation of the Protection, Rescue and Assistance System. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 45. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2330 – Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2430 – Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Maintenance of Public Railway Infrastructure. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2431 – Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and to decide on the amendments tabled to two sub-programmes in this budget user. First of all, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme Management and the ongoing maintenance of state roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Under point 1, we decide on the first amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 2, we decide on the second amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 3, we decide on the first amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the third amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 6, we decide on the fourth amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. They warn me that under point 4, we have not voted, so I propose that we also decide on the amendment under point 4. We decide on the second amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Monetary Sub-programme for the unemployed. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 48. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3330 – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Media and Audiovisual Culture. Can we make a decision? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u987	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not want to complicate it, but rather to express the satisfaction that the Government has somehow, I could say, summarized our amendment and in its explanation wrote that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its 2015 supplementary draft budget, is making a meaningful summary of the amendment and proposes to provide one million euros for this sub-programme, where we propose two million. I ask the Minister, Dr. Cuffer, if this is true, if these numbers are really in the complementary proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u988	Thank you. Unfortunately, at this stage, it is impossible to give the word to the Government. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 30. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 29. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have ended by deciding on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the state budget proposal for revenue and expenditure is harmonised. Minister Chufer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u989	It's consistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u990	Thank you. Since the draft budget is harmonised, we are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 as a whole. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 31. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014 and 2015, urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13. 11. 2013 which you received on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15a. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u991	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I hope that you will follow the SDS proposal, because I do not think that we can do this with purchases for the sale of state property. That's what the Minister of Finance said in his words. It would probably also be an interesting question of what the Court of Auditors would say, in particular because this purchase was intended for one enterprise fund, but we know that there are more in Slovenia. I suggest you support the SDS proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u992	Thank you. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 39. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u993	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the Republic of Slovenia be in debt for a billion 200 million less than is foreseen in the law on the implementation of budgets, because, finally, when we adopted the 2014 budget, it is stipulated that the Republic of Slovenia needs a billion 200 for the rehabilitation of banks. In view of the fact that the government of Alenka Bratušek had foreseen a debt in 2014, namely to cover expenditure on expenditure of 4 billion 800 dollars, to issue debt securities of billions of euros, to cover the implementation of a budget of 70 million euros, to intervene in the debt securities market of a billion 800 million, and to recapitalise banks. In addition, the law provides another billion 600 million guarantees. We think that's all, if we add it up, close to 10 billion, which is certainly extremely large. Such an obligation, especially when we look at 10-year bonds in international markets, Slovenia's bonds, we see that the interest rate is about 6% and almost 7%. At such an interest rate, it makes no sense for any of this country's debts, especially because we are transferring the burden of interest to future generations. This debt means that we will be obliged to repay debts, those already owed by the State and, on the other hand, this debt does not constitute any development. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are against Slovenia being further indebted at this level. This is also not in line with the fiscal rule adopted by this government and has been amended by the Constitution. This fiscal rule means that you have to spend as much as you create. However, this debt does not allow this to happen, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will support an amendment that reduces the country's indebtedness.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u994	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 39. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 45. Here I remind you that if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points 2 and 3 are irrelevant. Can we make a decision? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u995	Thank you very much. Article 45 of the Law on the implementation of the budget changes the level of funding of municipalities by getting municipalities that are weaker and even in the less developed territory of Slovenia, while the Municipality of Ljubljana gets more money. We object to such transfers of this money. We do not agree with him because we believe that this is why Slovenia's development is unbalanced.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u996	Thank you. Can we make a decision? We are voting on the amendment at point 1. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 47. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SLS Group to the 45th Article under points 2 and 3. The amendments are the same by content and are therefore voted on jointly. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 48. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under point 1, we are moving to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 46. Here I point out that if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points 2 and 3 are irrelevant. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Party to the 46th Article under points 2 and 3. I warn you that the amendments are identical, so there is a vote on both of them together. If they are not accepted, both amendments to Article 76 shall become irrelevant. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 64 of the SDS Group. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u997	There are three reasons why this article should be deleted. Firstly, the provision already contains the Slovenian State Holding Act. Secondly, the Minister’s opinion is that this provision does not need to be in ZIPRO. Thirdly, the provision is broader than in SDH, which is not permissible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u998	Thank you. Can we make a decision? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u999	Thank you so much for saying that. The law on SDH is the so-called material law and the so-called implementing law of ZIPRS. The provisions of ZIPRS in 2013 and 2014, which was proposed by your government or then by our common government, were, as far as we know, totally unfulfilled. We're not financial experts, so we can't say that, but we've been taught by others, and we believe that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1000	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 50. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 76. As the amendment of New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party to Article 46 were not accepted, the amendments of the same groups of Members to Article 76 are irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 27. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Real Estate Tax Act, the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill.We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments and articles. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I find that there is no desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I note that no, so I am closing the debate and putting the amendment of Article 5 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the decision. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting Article 8 and the three amendments to Article 8 into the debate. Under point 1, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, under point 2 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and under point 3 of the amendment of the coalition. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Franz Bogovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1001	Colleagues, I suggest you support not only your third amendment, but others. The second amendment to Article 8 refers to the provision of this exemption from property tax for fire-fighting homes other than those owned by fire-fighting companies. I don't think there's really gonna be any problem with firefighters finding out whether or not the firefighters are working there, and that we're equalising fire companies, because those who have any rent or anything like that, or are owned by the congregation -- there's really no need for them to charge real estate taxes, but others don't. I urge you to support the other amendments as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1002	Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting an amendment under point 1 of the amendment to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am making an amendment under point 2, and the drafter is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am making an amendment under point 3, the proposaler is a coalition. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am opening the debate on Article 11 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment to this Article. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Can we make a decision? We are voting on the amendment of Article 20 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 48. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Can we make a decision? No – explanation of voice. I suggest you sign up for an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Jože Tanko has a procedural record.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1003	Thank you so much for saying that. The Real Estate Act shall be adopted in a violent manner. In the parliamentary group, we tried to do everything we could to make this law a little more acceptable in order to make a public presentation of the opinions in order to postpone the consideration of this law. We have also tabled a large number of amendments, but none of the proposals we have made, neither procedural nor substantive, has been adopted when this law is being considered. Given that neither the civilian groups have been properly involved in the drafting of this law, it seems pointless for us to participate in the adoption of this law, so we are predicting obstruction of voting. Thank you very much and good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1004	Thank you and good-bye. Mr Franz Bogovic will explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1005	I believe you know what the definition will be. In view of what we tried to do at the time of the birth of this law in the Slovenian People's Party to improve this law, once again, in the Slovenian People's Party, and also those who later, as opponents who felt neglected in these proceedings, joined us, do not object to the introduction of the real estate tax law in Slovenia, but we certainly do not agree with this urgent procedure that was used to introduce this law. I think that a whole range of people were deprived of being able to participate actively in this process, so this group was finally formed, which, by signing petitions that have been collected by more than 70 000, showed in a good week that something is wrong or that people disagree with such a law. Most of them were just talking about feeling cheated or not being allowed to participate actively in a proposal that would touch any of them. The key problem with the law, as we have already mentioned, is that 200 million new crisis tax is through this property tax, in order to ensure that municipalities are granted legal autonomy, with the tax applied by local communities in the vast majority of European countries, those in whose group we belong to as much as possible. There's a whole bunch of anomalies in this marriage. I regret that, with good intentions, we have tabled amendments, and in particular those amendments which were amendments to Article 5, paragraph 14, to Article 14, are amendments that we wanted to remedy in our belief and also in the belief of legal experts who have reviewed the law on the basis of the report, as it was prepared, and have warned that there are a number of traps in these articles. Therefore, the procedure for adopting this law will certainly not be completed today. I believe that you will participate in those committees that we have called upon in order to have a free debate so as not to spend so much time in the National Assembly – for today – that you will participate in these committees, because I believe that it will still be important for you to make a decision when the Council of State is most likely to decide on this law. It is expected that the members of the Council of State are expected, and the report also shows that it is the opposite. I'm sorry it went like this. Today we will participate in the vote. We will oppose this proposal, just as we have all the time. And one more time. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] We have not been able to discuss, agree, and this is lacking to the coalition in general, even in other matters, even in the budget. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1006	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1007	Thank you, Mr. President. Although I am alone, I speak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. I regret that the procedure for adopting this law has been incorrect. Despite modest professional assistance, we have tried to put in as many amendments as possible. I think we were trying to defend them properly. I thought we ran into a partnership between us, the opposition and the coalition, but we ran into the wall practically with all the amendments. We have endeavoured that it would not be as bad as it is now, the affected Slovenian economy because we are listening, reading Umar's predictions, reading the forecasts of the Bank of Slovenia and also listening to Commissioner Olli Rehn, who is also our Commissioner, colleague and colleague, and who says and has repeatedly reiterated that the Slovenian economy is deeply depressed. And it doesn't seem to touch anyone. We regret that this law has given a slap to Slovenian local self-government. We regret that this has not been successful with the President of the Government or with her cabinet even after a five-fold request for the adoption of the SOS and SOS. Thank the Ministry of Finance for talking to them. You said yourself, ladies and gentlemen, to quote again one of the presidents of coalition parties who says, "With the property tax law, we are looking for the last change in people." That's right. That's what you said, and that's true – you're picking it up. This weekend will be extremely difficult for me. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, obviously not for you. But there is another hope or at least two: re-judgment by the veto of the State Council, and we predict the romance of this law to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-14-SDZ6-Izredna-47.ana.u1008	Thank you, too. Can we make a decision? We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 6. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I just want to inform you that the following working bodies are cancelled today: the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy, convened at 8 a.m., the Committee on Defence, convened at 9 a.m., the Committee on European Union Affairs, convened at 9.30 a.m., the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, convened at 12 noon, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which was convened at 12 noon, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Internal Affairs, the Public Administration and Local Government, which was convened 10 minutes after the joint meeting of the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you for your attention. I also conclude the 47th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. I thank you for your comprehensive and long-term work.
