ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Janja Nadast, Mr Ivan Simčič from 6 p.m. and Mr Bojan Starman. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed act on the recovery of damage to persons who have been removed from the permanent residence register, following a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u2	Good morning, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of this law on the compensation scheme for deleted Slovenia has been imposed by the European Court of Human Rights. It is quite sad, in fact, that Slovenian politicians have failed in 20 years to regulate what has been "destructed" by Slovenian politics in 1992 and that we had to wait for the European Court of Human Rights judgment to regulate this now. But still, it's better late than never. Now you have, honourable Members, a law before you, and today show that we are capable of doing what is our duty. This law must be adopted individually to correct the injustices of those who lost their right to freedom of movement in the territory of Slovenia overnight in 1992. We must accept it because it is dictated by justice, compassion and the principles of the rule of law. We must accept it in order to ensure the international reputation and image of Slovenia, which respects human rights and the rule of law. The law corrects the mistake that was made in 1992. That it was done, both the Slovenian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights found. It is true that Slovenia was generous when it came to granting citizenship, and unfortunately failed to secure the rights of those who wanted to continue to live freely in its territory as foreigners. It simply erased them, deprived them of their right to stay and to move freely. At that time, the State recognised the continuity of the right of residence to all other foreigners: Germans, Italians, Frenchmen, Sudaneses, Colombians, all except the citizens of the former SFRJ. And this legal error made by politics in 1992, we are now paying all citizens. We can be justifiably angry and point our finger at those responsible who have sinned. These are the current internal minister, the then government and all members of the current assembly who voted in favour of deletion. We can thank them in saying that we must adopt this law today with relatively high financial consequences. The financial consequences of the law, taking into account the coalition amendments adopted, are 130 million in five successful years, assuming that all deleted persons apply for and receive a flat-rate application and that then half of the beneficiaries claim compensation before the court up to three times the flat-rate. The law provides for individual treatment as far as possible after more than 20 years. Individual treatment is that only those who have tried to regulate their status, who have expressed an interest in regulating their status and activity, will be entitled to compensation. These are between 1 1 and 12,000. The remaining 13 to 14 thousand damages will not be due. However, individual treatment is also that only a small part of the compensation provided in the form of a 50-euro flat per month is deleted, or a total of up to EUR 12 thousand is deleted for a maximum of 20 years, while the compensation for the specific damage is materially and imaginatively available to individuals before a court. And they will also have to prove it by means of documents, witnesses and other means of proof. It is right that injustices be rectified; let us not close our eyes to the fact that many serious, difficult life stories have gone away from those who have been erased. Many tears, suffering, infirmities, and despair were shed, including children and the elderly. Those who were already so socially weak suffered the most. We owe these people an apology and just satisfaction, which has also been imposed on us by the European Court of Human Rights. We must not run away from this problem, we must not throw it under the carpet, we must not put our heads in the sand, because at the moment we have prayed from the sand, we would force the boomerang into the form of a moral cat, a distorted international reputation of the country and several times the higher damages that the European Court of Human Rights would have imposed. If we don't adopt the law [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] dealt with thousands of cases deleted and suffered significantly higher damages. [[...]] Only a short-sighted, irresponsible, non-lethal policy is willing to take such a risk, keep this in sight today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Jerk Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, Mr. Minister and Team! The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 16th meeting, on 5 May. 11. 2013 was treated as a parent labour body by the proposal for a law on compensation for damage to persons who were deleted from the register of the real population, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the text of the bill, the Committee received the following material published on the website of the National Assembly: opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 22. Ten. 2013, opinion of the Council of State of 18. 10, letter from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance of 6. 8. 2013, letter dated 16 July 2013 from the Society of the Deleted Citizens of Slovenia. Ten. 2013, Common Positions Amnesty International Slovenia, Civil Initiative of Deleted Activists, Association for Human Rights and the Peace Institute, Institute for Modern Social and Political Studies of 29. Ten. 2013 A representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Peace Institute, the Civil Initiative of Deleted Activists and Amnesty International Slovenia also participated in the work of the Committee. A general discussion was held in the draft law at the request of the Group of Members and Members on the basis of Article 122(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall meet at its 17th session, on 24. Ten. 2013 adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Amendments to the title of Article 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, 11, 15, 17, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24 and 26 of the SLS Group to Articles 2, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15. Article 20, Article 22, for a new Chapter, to Articles 23 and 24. In a supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposer, Minister of the Interior and Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, stressed that the proposal for a law is a very complex and complex matter of problem-solving that has been going on for more than 20 years. The dimensions of the problem are large and are thus extremely complex. The Slovenian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the Slovenian authorities had made a legal error for the deleted in 1992 and had caused many people the injustice to be corrected. This is dictated by the principles of the rule of law and justice, and thus also by the reputation of Slovenia. The draft law fulfils the commitment made by the European Court of Human Rights by a pilot judgment in the case of Kurić and other complainants, namely, that the Court has awarded compensation for non-profit damage and that the judgment for property compensation is still expected. The compensation under the law belongs to all deleted persons who, on any legal basis, have regulated citizenship or the right to permanent residence in Slovenia, either on the basis of old foreign legislation or on the basis of a nationality law or on the basis of a status law which was specifically adopted in 1999 and amended in 2010. The compensation in marriage belongs to at least a few more than 11,000 people by marriage, out of a total of just over 25,000 deleted. Since the proposed amendments to the coalition set a 50-euro flat rate for the month of deletion, which means slightly more than 12 thousand euros in compensation in the form of a flat-rate. The bill also allows for the enforcement of individual circumstances, the imposition of compensation for concrete material damage in a fair proceeding. The maximum compensation will be around €36,000 for the longest period of elimination. The compensation will be paid in five instalments from 2014 to 2018. The Minister added the definition of the proposer to the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups. Finally, he stressed that by adopting this law, we will communicate to the domestic and international public what kind of country we are, that we are broad-hearted and respect human rights and the rule of law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion. She stressed that the aim of the proposal for a law to remedy human rights violations and fundamental freedoms and to implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia is to systematically regulate the just satisfaction or reparation of the damage caused to those who have been erased from the register. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further referred to some comments on the individual article of the bill. The representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, Councillor Tomaž Horvat, stressed in his presentation that the State Council supports the law. Representatives of the Civil Initiative of Deleted Actors Mirjana Učakar and Aleksander Todorovic, representative of the Katarina Vukko Peace Institute and representative of Amnesty International Slovenia Blaž Kovac presented their opinions and comments on the bill. Following the presentation of the views and opinions, those representatives left the meeting in protest. In a broad and controversial debate involving all members of the Committee, all the dilemmas in the area of deleted, which have been drawn up over the last 20 years, have opened up. The Committee then adopted amendments to the Coalition to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 22, for a new fourth chapter, to Articles 23 and 24 and to the SDS Group of Members 20. The other amendments had not been accepted or had become irrelevant. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u5	Since the Assembly held a general debate at its 17th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2013 marked "new". We turn first to the consideration of Article 2, to Article 3, Article 4, Article 11, Article 23 and Article 24. Here I would like to remind you that the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Article 3, Article 4, Article 11, Article 23 and Article 24, so we will discuss all these articles together. I shall put into discussion Article 2, Article 3, Articles 4, 11, 23 and 24, and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to this Article. I'm asking who wants to discuss it. I invite you to report for discussion. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you very much. In view of the introduction of the Minister and in view of what happened then in the second reading, it should be said that the proposal for a law is today significantly worse than it was at first reading, when we were a little more gentle. So today such tenderness is not to be expected, at least on my part. Even if this law is adopted, it will probably be necessary to consider what can be done after the adoption of the law. The first thing is the title of the law. See, the title of the law is false and is offensive to the Slovenian people and to all those residents of the former republics who have settled their status. That's 170,000. Why are we talking about deleted? Because NGOs and some others in the mid-1990s have simply pushed this term forward, but that is not true. That's not true. Delete in terms of deletion or domestically stated deletion from the permanent population register would mean that there is no record of these persons in the permanent population register, and that the internal ministry has never had them deleted either. If they were erased. This happened in the Baltic countries when they deleted them, they no longer admitted that they existed, rather than that they no longer existed. And there, well, Mr. Möderndorfer, calm down and you'll tell your story when the time is right. But it was a transfer from one registry to another registry. It is simply that the register of the permanent population is an internal ministry at the time, it must be said for the sake of the people, a few months earlier calling on all citizens who do not have a regulated status to arrange it for 300 tolars. 1.3 euros is about today. 170 thousand people followed. 170 thousand people from the republics of the former Yugoslavia followed this and settled their status. In Ljubljana, 25,000 were sent to invite people who did not arrange their status: "Come and arrange your status. The marriage deadline is up. You have the opportunity to apply for citizenship or permanent residence of a foreigner in Slovenia." The 25 thousand applications sent by the Ljubljana Congregation at that time would now be called an administrative unit, 5 thousand responded, of which 2 thousand 500 were settled. That's 10%. Twenty-three thousand or twenty-two thousand 500 people, despite the notice of the administrative unit, refused to settle their status. Velenje, Mr Trnovšek, who is here with us, head of the Internal Affairs Department ten years ago and more, when I was still working at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we talked about this, he told me that he had sent several times because he was in Velenje, there was more of this population to send invitations, come, arrange for status. The response was minimal. But it doesn't even matter. What matters is what the Ministry has done and why we insist that it is not deleted and that it is transferred from one register to another. Because it was physically the same way. From the register of the permanent population, these 25 thousand 600 and so many individuals were transferred to the reserve register or, according to the household, to some other purchase. Otherwise, the state of Slovenia could never later determine how many there were. So they were in another registry, in another reserve register or in another drawer, according to their own household. Why do we insist that this term "deleted" should be changed to "transferred". For a basic reason, because that's what happened. But the Baltic states did erase them and take away all their rights. This is what is in Article 2 and related, so I will be a little longer, very important. Therefore, the whole law must be followed by instincts that they have been transferred from one registry to another. And don't embarrass the state of Slovenia by doing as bad an act as the Baltic States did because this country didn't do it. Even more, we were commended, until 1995, we were very grateful for the way we handled these people's status. It must be said that in 1995 we defended ourselves before the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva. Ten years later, I led this delegation myself, and in 1995 she was led by Mrs Alenka Shelih from the Faculty of Law. She also explained how it was with this category of people, since this issue had already been partially raised in 1995. She then, I emphasize, explained how she was with this category of people. One of Mrs Shelih's main interrogators and interrogators with her delegation was Dr Vojin Dimitrijevic, home from Belgrade, after the birth of the Serbs. And this gentleman was very pleased with the answers. Just like the entire committee. And all the explanations made by Mrs Shelih and the Committee were accepted as a good solution to this problem. And the result was what? That they recommended to the Baltic States, which did indeed create an era of people or wiped out people. The result was very clear: "We recommend you a Slovenian model. Do as the State of Slovenia has done." And I don't know why 25 years later we would be ashamed of those steps taken by those people who were responsible. I don't see why. So it's a transfer, not a delete. And something else is important, Minister, because I was so surprised that I almost fell down when I saw it. In Article 2, you have extended the range of beneficiaries. The initial proposal of the law was clear and I agreed with it. I also published a contribution on this subject. It is said that the beneficiaries are those who have settled their status at this time, whether they are citizens or have a permanent residence permit, in those 21, 22 years or as far as possible. It makes sense to me that the Minister will not go around the world looking for those who belong to this category of people who have never come to Slovenia since 1991 or 1992, it makes sense. Maybe there's someone in Hawaii, I don't know, in Switzerland. Now the minister should go around the world looking for them to give them compensation. That's why I supported it. But now I see you've extended it to those people who put in the role and didn't get permission. Look, that's how I read it. Someone lives in Serbia, Bosnia, Macedonia, Kosovo, Switzerland, Hawaii or the United States, because it doesn't matter where, from this category of people. And once between 1992 and the expiry of the law in July this year he sent an application and received a negative response. Now he'll be entitled to compensation. That's how I read it. If not, please correct me. So someone who has given a role, who has not been entitled to citizenship or permanent residence, cannot get it for me. That is why the amendment to Article 2 is also an amendment. I will follow up on the individual articles, but let me just end this part of the debate this way. In the Slovenian public there is a belief which is an artificial creation, which is a clear mind of the Slovenian political left and which comes from civil society organisations, such as type or person, Mrs. Predanova. These deleted ones were created or so-called deleted, transmitted to me, created. They weren't there until 1995, they just weren't there. Why they didn't come into existence until 1995, we know. For political or electoral reasons, the Slovenian political left. That's another thing. In the SDS we have never, I stress, never and never today, objected to the status of those who have been wronged. We never objected to this, so it also occurred to my mind, 13 years ago, about a month up or down, in 2001-2003, during this period there were several constitutional laws with which we tried to regulate this status. And compensation. If I remember, one of the versions, I don't know if she came to the National Assembly, but I know she was on my desk, she had 480,000 tolls, up to 480 grand. In the form of a constitutional law, we wanted to resolve this. And I'm stressing again. We have never opposed the regulation of the status of those who have been wronged. I know. I know some of them personally. I know a person who was born in 1946 in Slovenia to Slovenian parents, in 1947, on the census of the population, Sisku, because her father was a meteorologist or something, then civil books were made and it was written there. And in 1991, she found that she was a Croatian citizen and not a Slovenian citizen. This is wrong, because she didn't even know about this. There's something about all these people. As far as we know. The vast majority, with all responsibility today, are speculators who in 1995 figured out what time it was and then continued their story to Strasbourg. Let me mention among them Mr Todorovic, whom I see here today in the National Assembly, many times on the Committee. What did he say in 1995? "I am not interested in Slovenian citizenship, I would be ashamed to take it. I'm interested in compensation." Something like that. This text should be found or found. This is therefore the reason why we insist on getting rid of it individually and so on, as the law stipulates. I don't have any problems here. Another time. That the circle of beneficiaries goes back to where it was. So it's those who have settled this status. And the third thing. We'll probably get to that, but I personally strongly object to a higher compensation. There's 1.3 euros in Dachau. I don't know why it would be here anymore. Or there's 1.3 euros on Rab. And why would there be more? And one more thing. All the family around this, if we have to do it, we have to do it, shame will be in Europe and so on and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not true! The entire list of decisions of the Strasbourski court can be found which have never been realized. And Britain is therefore no less democratic and important country, although it has not implemented a decision by the Strasbourke Court, which speaks of the need for detained persons to have access to elections, for example. I'm not advocating that we don't solve this problem. Not at all. This problem must be solved and we must respect the Strasbourg decision, but, to some extent normal, in some normal relations that will be adapted to our history, I am talking about the post-World War II period. There we also have legislation in this area, the injustices of such and other ones, which will be adapted to the actual measures taken in this country in 1991 and which will be adapted to the economic prospects of this country. And nothing else. To conclude again, we have never opposed, this is an artificial creation, we even wanted to make things happen; if a constitutional law had been passed during the period in which I spoke, this status would have been resolved significantly cheaper because it would have been less than ten years. At that time, however, the political left did not have the slightest will to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you. Before I put my word forward, the Minister made a statement. Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak knows things very well, so I think it is right that I should explain immediately to some that there will be no misunderstandings. Look, today we're probably going to hear more than once that you're in favor of correcting injustices, that it's necessary to do so, that you yourself know the cases of people who have been wronged, just not as we suggested, and not today. Maybe tomorrow, but I'd rather do it a little differently. And then you're going to stick to some details, or we're going to say delete things, or we're going to say transfer to another record and so on. Look, Rhodus Hick, a shot of salt, today you've got a marriage on the table, today we have a chance to solve this thing and fix what's to fix. Whether or not the transfer has been deleted, see here the words are irrelevant. It is a question of justice, these people who have been erased or transferred to another record or whatever we call it, they have lost some right, they have lost their right to reside in the territory of the country. These were the people who did not choose Slovenian citizenship, but wanted to continue living free as foreigners with other citizenship in our country. They wanted to live in Slovenia, but they couldn't. That's what this is about. If you were expelled from the country tomorrow, then you'd say, because we haven't erased you, we've only transferred you to one other record, and I don't think we'd be happy with this explanation. We're here to solve this problem and this mistake that was made at the time. Indeed, many citizens of the former republics of the SFRJ have opted for Slovenian citizenship and they have settled their status very quickly and here Slovenia has been exemplary. Here Slovenia was also an example for other countries. However, those who opted for other citizenships that did not choose Slovenian citizenship wanted to live here as foreigners. Well, that's when we did the wrongs. We should enable them, and this has been said by several courts that they normally reside in the territory of Slovenia further, as do the Sudanese, Colombian or German. We have left this continuity to these people, I would tell the citizens of the former SFRY, and we have not left this right. This law solves the problem individually. Do not say today that the law does not solve matters from case to case. Each application will be decided separately, each of those who apply for compensation will have to show that he has settled his status or tried to settle it, so that he was active in trying to settle himself. Thus, speculators, those who went elsewhere and never cared, never even wanted to come back to the territory of Slovenia, can now just show up and claim some compensation. It's about people who have made an effort to get their status back on track. This enlargement that you're talking about is not something that would just come up, some idea that got stronger between the first and second readings, that was a comment that we received very explicitly on the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. See, Slovenia is a member of the Council of Europe, an international organisation based on respect for human rights and freedoms and democracy. If you are a member of this family, you are a democratic state, and you respect human rights and freedoms, you have committed yourself to it. And if the committee of ministers tells us there, it sets up a mirror and says, "Look, there's still something wrong with the law in this and this and this point," we have to think about it. What group is this, exactly? What group are we extending the law to? But those who tried to regulate their status under the old original legislation couldn't because it was too hard. These were, say, poor people, social cases, people who didn't have a job. Because in order for a German or a Frenchman to have permanent residence in Slovenia, he had to show that he had a job here. This man, who was wiped out without a job, was poor, was at the social bottom. And when he came to the congregation, they simply did not grant him a permanent residence permit. They said, "You're poor." "But look, until yesterday I lived in Slovenia, there was no problem!" "Now you can't do it!" There have been many such cases. And these people asked, they put in a role, and this role was rejected. And we are now allowing them to receive compensation. But, look out, it's the same condition as the others. It is said that they have tried to make an effort to be active, to submit an application or even to live continuously, but illegally, in the territory of Slovenia. There are also cases like this, those that have not been expelled. Or, say, they went abroad and they couldn't come back because they didn't let them across the border, and they could have had kids here in Slovenia. These were also difficult cases, cases of people who had been separated from their family in Slovenia for the purpose of being erased, headed abroad when they wanted to come back, stopped them at the border crossing and did not let them go to Slovenia. It is said that this category of additional beneficiaries is not just in mind and over the finger, but is the result of a very clear warning from the Committee of Ministers on the Council of Europe. Once again, I will make it very clear that if we do not take into account the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the positions of the Council of Europe here in this national assembly, we will get a boomerang from Strasbourg. And if nothing else, see, if you do not understand this concept of justice and the rule of law, then at least understand that it is in the financial interest of this country to resolve the matter, as required by Strasbourg. Because if we don't solve this, then we're going to get a boomerang in our head and our heads are going to hurt financially even more because there's going to be more compensation. We can see that now. See, only six complainants were compensated for immaterial damage for 20 000 euros each, without taking into account the circumstances of the case. However, we are solving the matter in such a way that everyone gets 50 euros per month of removal if he wants to enforce individual circumstances, he has to prove with papers, witnesses, what he lost, where he was injured, why he was separated from his family, why he suffered, how he suffered. And if he proves it, he can make up to three times as much compensation as the fine. In Strasbourg, it would cost us all a lot more. And that's your way of thinking. Look, we've done this a number of times, because it's hard to look the truth in the eye and it's easier to get things under the carpet, because at some point you might be more popular with the public, then boomerangs fly in over the years. Look at how many cases we had when politics couldn't tell itself, look the problem in the eye, sweep it under the rug, and in five, six, ten years, it flew back like a boomerang. Now we have deleted, and we have 143rd Article of Zuif, because there are always the same stories. Remember Article 143 of Zujf, I told you, when we were saving with that law, that it is absolutely necessary to save, it is important and it is right that we have adopted the law, but at this point it is unconstitutional and will fall before the Constitutional Court. What a horror! The president of the Janša government was admiring here at the National Assembly, and he was twisting my arm so much on his back that he would dissolve the coalition to tie the confidant and so on. And what happened at the end? Yes, the article fell before the Constitutional Court. What all of us who get to know each other in the right amount, we knew in advance. So you have to do things wisely if you want to be useful to the country. In this law, I will point out a hundred times today, if necessary, that we treat each individual individually. Only those who tried to regulate their status could get the compensation, but they could not afford it, so he wanted to stay in Slovenia, and the Slovenian authorities did not allow it. There's more than one option. Either he was expelled, or he went abroad voluntarily, but he couldn't come back because he was stopped at the border, or he lived here, and he filed an application, and they refused because he didn't have a job because he didn't have a livelihood because he didn't have an apartment because he was poor or whatever. In short, each one of them had to make an effort. Those who have not been active who have not worked hard have no right to compensation. That's very clear. We're not in line with civil associations here. The deleted themselves claim that they should grant justice to all 25 thousand. Mr Krivic also claims that we should confess to all 25 000. We have chosen this balanced approach, an intermediate approach. And after the right to compensation has been recognised, it's just a flat-rate generalized for everyone. And this lump sum isn't that high, 50 euros a month is wiped out. For the individual circumstances, for the particular damage that someone had to pay a doctor because he had not been granted health insurance, that someone had to pay a school for children because he had not been paid tuition or that the state did not finance schooling or study, someone who, as I have already said, was not able to reach their children because they did not let him into the country, and so on, will prove it with papers and witnesses before a court. It's called individual treatment. Exactly what you say you want. We will deal with individuals, on a case-by-case basis, and with regard to eligibility and the level of compensation, each will be dealt with separately. Think about it, and maybe you'll support the marriage today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you. It's a replica. Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u10	Very briefly, but I have some things to do. This article about pensions, the minister you were talking about, he fell. Yes, but I want to explain that now the media structure and the Slovenian political left are such, pensions have been reduced in the Janša government. That's not true. That's not true at all. Zuif took part of his pension to those privileged. The Constitutional Court didn't say we shouldn't do that. The Constitutional Court has said that this must be done in a different way. However, the Slovenian political left does not want this because it has its own advocates in it. And you, I don't know who I'm going to mention, but there's a lot of them. What I want to replicate is that you presented the Minister as if there had been some terrible injustice against other countries of the European Union at that time in 1991. That's not true. Why is that? Look, those who didn't want to have citizenship, and those cases were, because it was very clear, let's say that Serbia said if they took Slovenian citizenship, they wouldn't be able to inherit from them. We offered them a permanent residence permit. Allowing a foreigner to reside permanently in Slovenia. She was an alternate. The alternative was nationality or residence permit for a foreigner. So there's no particular injustice here. Talking about exiled and so on, I don't know what to say about this story. There are fewer of these cases, at least in my memory, but at the time I was somewhere closer to the top of the interior ministry if you want, even though I did not decide that there would be no problem. The committee that he requested, Minister. This is also possible for the committee to request. But I don't know why the Strasbourke Court doesn't ask those countries that haven't done so, but there are no consequences. And now I don't know if we really have to comply with every request from the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. It's not possible to replicate the replica. You want a debate. As a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u12	Look, if things were that simple, then there would be no compensation at all. If anyone who wanted to be allowed a permanent residence then there would be no problem. Today we are talking about those who tried to do so, and they could not get permission because they were refused. And most of these cases came from a weak social status. If I'm very plastic to get a permanent residence permit, you have to prove that you have a permanent livelihood, that you have a secure apartment, etc. So if you're poor, if you don't have any income, then you can't get a permanent residence permit. And these cases were apparently very large because, later, when the law was enacted in 2010, they proved that they were trying to redecorate and could not. So we're talking about people who tried, who were active, who tried, who applied for permanent residence permits, and they were rejected. That's what we're talking about. Look, with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, I think there is no point in politicising this House. You can write an expert article about this, you may disagree with that judgment at some point, but as politicians, as parliamentarians, we as a government must respect this judgment. Slovenia is a member of the Council of Europe, and if we want to be a rule of law, if we want to be a democratic state, if we want to have some international reputation, then we must respect the judgments of international courts. There's no doubt about that. We must inspect this judgment! For tomorrow another country will be condemned, for example, maybe something about our successful issues, and we will expect others to respect these judgments. That's why they're international organizations. You can't just pick the raisins and say yes, I agree with the judgments when they're good for me, but when you get a judgment that's not good for you, that puts you in a mirror and you disagree with it. These are the basic principles of the rule of law. And that's what we have to stick to if we give ourselves something.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u14	That's a nice hello to you all! First of all, a replica to the Minister. You said that there would certainly be a lot of debaters today who would say that this should be arranged, but not today, again and again, and not in this way. I say the opposite, Mr. Secretary. This matter should be and could have been settled decades ago and then would never have reached the European institutions and would not have had such a closed space to find solutions as we have at this point. But, Mr. Minister, why wasn't she? For ten years we have negotiated a solution to the constitutional law, we have offered several versions of the constitutional law, we have also offered some other solutions, which the Transitional Left has consistently and consistently rejected and cried out to all of the people how I am lying, how I am a disgrace to the Nazis, and I don't know what else I have listened to in this Chamber, because if this doesn't work out in a timely and European comparable way, they will end up extremely large compensation and it will all emerge in some kind of auction about the amount of damages, regardless of all the big words that have been made up until then. And I heard there wouldn't be any compensation because there couldn't be any. It was an SD sedan, it was the embroidery of the others on the transition left. I was qualified as a fairy tale teller, and it was said that I was a liar, a manipulator, and as many insults as you wanted. Some in public newspapers, in graphic form, all. And where are we today? Are we today adopting a law that says that such a mistake and such a mistake has been made to talk about something else? No, no, no. We're passing a compensation bill and nothing else. We're exactly where I said we would be. Then who lied? When the first hearing was held, the media had virtually silenced this law because they should very clearly say who the liar is in this country and that if I paraphrase Mr Havel, the immortal soul of the transition left is a lie. And we're all gonna pay this lie so dearly that it's not true. And worst of all, not the ones concerned, not the European Union, nor the Slovenian citizens and citizens, no one will finally be satisfied with the solution, because it is too late and will be one way or another criminal, because there is no time to seek solutions that are once possible, would be much better, more fair and could take into account the full range of different interests and events that happened at that time. What is before us today in this article is now a matter of one very important concept. And I don't understand that you're acting like this is a side thing that actually happened. The notion of erasure and deleted in international politics and in political science was established in relation to the situation around 1990 at the end of the Soviet Union in the Baltic States. There the Russian minorities in some of these countries have taken literally everything. The decrees took their citizenship, all their rights, frozen or even confiscated their assets, couldn't operate, blocked their accounts, tried to expel them, but Russia as the successor of the Soviet Union wasn't ready to accept them. And these people literally hung without everything, they were erased from all registers, they had no access to goods, not to fundamental rights and freedoms, they couldn't do anything. These people have been experiencing a few months of real calvary. All of Europe was then appalled. And this is what Europe understands to be erased and erased. And you know what the biggest paradox of this story is? Slovenia has been offered, as an example, by the Council of Europe and other institutions of the European Union to the Baltic States as an example of how they should address this problem. Then, a few years later, we began to abuse this concept, at first in different organizations, and later it may be the principle that if it is already there, and just grabs it, almost everyone started to use it: media, courts, everyone. This concept, this event in Slovenia is not comparable to the tragedy that has taken place in the Baltic countries. And that is why today is a historic opportunity for all of us to correct this injustice, the great injustice that has been done to our country, to all citizens and citizens, and to all those who have fought in the war for Slovenia, to misuse the concept and therefore needlessly shame the state of Slovenia abroad. That is why this concept is so important. Nothing else has happened than exactly what the SDS Amendment says. It was a transfer from one register to another register. No one was taken, no one was taken. Many of these stories that you mentioned, you know, fall into the category that the former Minister of LDS, the Transition Left, Irma Pavlinič Krebs very clearly defined, "games mainly for the stories they had at the time when they wanted to impose high damages and establish an appropriate atmosphere for this, but they had to invent" This is a quote from Minister of Transition Left Irma Pavlinič Krebs in this Parliament. [[..]] That's why it's so important and because it affects so much more than you've been willing to admit right now. A country that is considered a systematic human rights violator even now, if we help it ourselves, will be a country that will be even more exotic abroad than it is at this time. Such countries are avoided by those who want to look for an economic partner who is willing to invest who want to do business. And that's why people in this country live worse than they could have lived. As a result, it is vital that today the National Assembly, as a legislative body, seize this historic opportunity and correct this injustice, which makes life worse than it could and will make life worse. And that things are finally called by the right name. It was a transfer from one register to another register. And all the consequences were based solely on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you. Dr. Virant has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u16	The motioner, thank you. See, Slovenian citizens and citizens are not at all guilty of what happened in 1992 and at least the fighters for Slovenia alone. If they were asked if Slovenia should do what it did at the time, they would certainly say no if they explained things to them. Now, if we're going to call it deletion or transfer, it's a little late. To ring the bell means this, because the rulings of the courts speak of the deletion, the Slovenian Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court of this country, speaks of the deletion. The European Court of Human Rights shall use the word deleted or an eraser. And we can now go to the croquet truth, whether it's called mush or cashew, but the essence of the story will not be changed, the essence of the story is in the loss of justice that was created then, in the loss of some legal right. The right to reside in the country, to freedom of movement, was lost. You can call it delete, you can call it transfer to another record, but these are just technical notions of how this was technically done is completely irrelevant. What is crucial is that from one day on people were no longer entitled to stay in the territory of Slovenia. And it's true, some people could handle it. And they are. And those do not have any compensation or for a very short period of time, from being erased to being settled. For various reasons, however, some of them could not, or you mentioned something yourself, whether they did not even know what it was, or were, say, without a valid passport. It is hard to imagine how, at the time of war in Bosnia, a Bosnian man would have obtained a valid passport so that he could apply for a permanent residence permit in Slovenia. Then there were the poor who had no permanent source of survival and were therefore rejected because they could not show that they deserved a month, I don't know, 100 or 200 marks. We are talking about such cases, people, we are talking about those who really have been wronged. And if we are in the midst of these hundreds or thousands of people who will be justly compensated, if any of them do not belong to him, it is nevertheless a lesser evil than to do the opposite, rather than to do the opposite because of some speculators, as they are called, not to undo the injustice to all those who have indeed been wronged. This is literally about the question of the perspective on which side you look at people, whether you look at people as bad or as good. You're looking, "yeah, there's a speculator, now we have to make the whole system so no one gets anything." And we look the other way around, and people have been wronged, and injustice has to be corrected as much as possible, and the law has to prevent compensation from reaching those who can rightly be labeled as speculators or war profiteers, such as those who did not give a damn about their citizenship, or for the permanent residence of a year and a year and a year, and now, let's say, would have come up with a compensation bill. It's not allowed, it doesn't allow, and that's the key. It is crucial that we deal with each case on a case-by-case basis. The one who tried hard to make an effort to put in some activity failed, so he was unable to regulate the status until 1999, when the law allowed the status to be settled for those who had been rejected before, after the 2010 novelty, only those who had been denied the wrong will have the right to compensation. We are clearly very different in relation to international institutions and European institutions, in this particular case to the European Court of Human Rights. Our firm position is that the judgments of international courts must be respected. If we are to be a legal country, we must respect them. If we want to be a country requiring our own citizens to respect the laws and respect the judgments and other decisions of the national authorities, then we must also respect such decisions as a state. It's basic democratic mathematics.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you. Would you like to discuss it, Mr Grimes? Since there are more of you, I invite you to report for discussion. Mr. Dragutin Mate has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't even know where to start, given how the minister interprets some things as sacred truth, but things aren't exactly like that. I would expect him to know a little better, given that he sat in and dealt with these matters on several occasions in different governments, or was at least very thoroughly informed about them. First of all, the word delete. The minister has said several times today that words are not important. It's an important word. And if we want to talk very precisely about what was actually happening and what the legal status of the independence of Slovenia was and what the legal regime was in the then SFRJ on citizenship, it is important to make it very clear because most people do not know it. In Yugoslavia, citizenship was established in the republics, not at the Federation level. Federal citizenship was the result of national citizenship. Simply put, if an Austrian came to Belgrade and wished to have Yugoslav citizenship, he could not have it. The Federal Secretariat of the Interior or the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs referred him to one of the Republic's internal affairs secretariats, as was then said. And when he got his citizenship there according to the rules that were in that republic, he got automatic citizenship of the SFRY. That's how it was arranged. There were no citizens or persons in Slovenia who would have had the right to vote not to be a citizen of one of the republics of Yugoslavia. Of course, Yugoslavia has regulated electoral law – why I am talking about it because it is important and some are citing it – by a special law. Yugoslavia was much more democratic, if I say so, compared to some other communist countries, where they even had internal passports to move from one city to another, and allowed for a settlement anywhere. Voting rights and the right to vote for the referendum were linked to permanent residence and not to citizenship, which was the original republic. Federal citizenship was merely the result of national citizenship. And that was technically what it looked like. Since people could move freely in Yugoslavia, a special law regulated the right to vote, which was linked to permanent residence. That is why these people, wherever they lived in Yugoslavia, also received the identity cards of that republic where they lived, where their permanent residence was written. The identity card did not express citizenship, it was not a travel document, but it was only a destination and was a document with which it could identify itself and carry out certain matters within the country. After the collapse of the common country, the status of those who are not citizens of Slovenia had to be regulated in our country. Before that, the country had registers, including a register of foreigners and a register, in which all citizens of all SFRJ republics were eligible for election. Once we became a single country, these registers had to be separated. At the same time, we had another additional category of people who were SFRJ citizens, as a result, because they were one of the republics, but they no longer had electoral rights because electoral rights belonged only to the citizens of Slovenia, since we became independent. Therefore, the State had to elect these people from the common register of rights and be elected to transfer them to a special register. And she did. This is the register that was created. Different. Even more. He stayed in the same register, where that's all that was marked in people. Then came the law, which under special conditions allowed for the acquisition of Slovenian citizenship. This marriage was extremely good. He allowed the citizenship of Slovenia to be given to any person who lived in Slovenia one day before the plebiscite that was performed. Only one day earlier, if he was declared permanent in Slovenia, he could have obtained citizenship without any conditions. And that was extremely well-done and well-delivered. I was a little surprised to hear a few strong words at the expense of the then minister, and especially the secretary of state who took care of this area. He never is – and those who are in this room who have dealt with him know that it is not planned, and I will not name him at all, because the minister has not appointed him either, and we both know exactly who I am talking about – want to harm these people. And that's the insult of this person, it's unacceptable, Mr. Minister, to speak in such a way of speaking about someone who was then covering this area. That's the first thing. Second thing. A law had been passed in Parliament, it had not been adopted by the Minister and had not been adopted by the Secretary of State. In my opinion, however, Parliament made only one mistake at the time, and this mistake needs to be corrected. In the law we had an institution that allowed easy way to acquire citizenship, but did not provide that all those who lived in the territory of Slovenia and who had the right to vote or vote before the date of the referendum in Slovenia would be allowed to be automatically transferred to the register of foreigners. The law didn't prevent them from doing that. No, no, Mr. Secretary, you're abusing what you're saying, and today you've told a lot of half-truths. And it is no wonder that we have lost our judgment in the European Court of Justice if we have been defended by such half-truths as you represent here today. It is not true that none of these could have been regulated under the Foreign Permanent Residence Act in Slovenia at that time. That's not true. You say they couldn't, you said that more than once today. No, everybody could have arranged it. Of course, the role had to be given, which also cost a few cents, but they did not do so, even though they all received calls. Today we are talking about these people – and of course now I will be paid to not respect what I do not know and that we are against foreigners in this country and I do not know what else. But still, these citizens need to be told, you have to say it! People who lived in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia had two options to decide whether to accept the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia or to arrange for the status of a foreigner. And then the legislation allowed them to gain the status of a foreigner as a permanent resident, not as a temporary resident, immediately. And they didn't do it. They began to handle it later when they had problems. However, problems arose — when? When they came to the administrative unit or the congregation, it was up to them to arrange it, and when their identity card expired, and they wanted a new ID card. The new ID card gave her a different status with the new legislation. This status was that the identity card also expressed citizenship and therefore could not be obtained. And don't tell them that the country of Slovenia kicked it in to me even when they replaced it, the invalid ID card was destroyed, destroyed by piercing it and issued it to me because I was a citizen of Slovenia. [[...]] Someone who had neither regulated status as a foreigner nor as a citizen was no longer able to have a identity card because that document also expressed citizenship. With this document we are able to travel with it to neighbouring countries at the time, only to Austria and Italy, today we can travel across the EU and to some other countries with which the EU has such an agreement. So things aren't as homogeneous as they are now trying to show up in a very simple way, they couldn't, they couldn't, they couldn't, they couldn't. True, some people have also suffered injustice. That's right. I absolutely agree with you. And that's what I was talking about when I was trying to solve this problem and save it. To find out, from the documentation that some people were trying to fix things, the officials simply dismissed them from the window for various reasons and, of course, had problems. And all those who, like you said and used the term, were expelled, knew they didn't have a personal document. Even when they were pierced by this personal document, they could apply for foreign status, not citizenship. I know that a large number of people from the former Yugoslavia are very emotional about citizenship, nationality, some don't even separate it, and they have responded very emotionally. But that doesn't mean they couldn't know or they didn't know that you could arrange the status of a foreigner. Some were even warned about this. And it is not here today that we sell to Slovenian citizens that these people were unable on the day that the country became independent or when the law was passed, to regulate the status of a foreigner immediately and had special conditions. The State has facilitated the conditions under which these persons may acquire foreign or national status several times since 1993. In 2007, when a group of people who said themselves deleted came to the European Commissioner for Home Affairs to present the problem of the deleted in Slovenia, the Commissioner accepted them and listened, and then asked them a very simple question: on which embassy did you receive visas to enter the European Union? These people were Serbian citizens before, and citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina, nationality is not even important. And they said they didn't need any visas. And all those who came to this meeting at the time showed the passports of the Republic of Slovenia. They were all already citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And he didn't even understand what they were talking about. He didn't even understand what they were talking about. I spoke to him several times on this subject and he was completely surprised and he said what these people were telling me because they are your citizens. They've got it all set up. And if we are talking about a mistake that this country has made, and I think that it was, that the Parliament of that time, as it was – and we know exactly what it was like, and with some of these Members, I also discussed the constitutional law in 2006 and 2007, had little to forget what they were saying at the 1992 Parliament meeting, a mistake was made in that the law did not write down a very simple sentence that all those who lived in Slovenia on that day and that day had a permanent residence that did not automatically transfer them to the register of foreigners. That was the only problem. This was not done by the then Members. I can't answer now, and we can't all be held accountable for not accepting it, but that doesn't mean, of course, that these people didn't have a chance to settle it, under very simplified conditions with very low fees, a few cents, but some didn't want to settle it. People have been calling to take care of themselves. And it's not true that they got calls to arrange their citizenship as they try to present themselves today. That's not true. They were invited to arrange their status in Slovenia. They were invited to arrange their status. Ask your experts at the Ministry, and they will explain this very carefully. Like me, they also sent you a report on the exact chronology of how it went. And you know exactly why not speak to the minister, not to tell the public that they couldn't arrange that because of the situation they were in, economically, they didn't have the money to pay the tax. That's not true. Everyone could have arranged it. Some of them are. Some of them aren't. Now it's about the number of these people. During the time of Minister Bohinc, and when you, by the way, were his secretary of state, the Ministry listed 18 thousand 700 and something else, now I don't know exactly whether 31 or 13 or 305 persons who had no regulated status. When I started working in this area, I believed that number. I didn't go to count it again, not physically. In the days of Kresal, this number suddenly jumped to $24,000. During the period of the Minister of Bohinc, decisions were made. During the period of Minister Kresalova, decisions on permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia were issued. And there's something about these decisions. Who approved them? I doubt that the Ministry's professional services, I think, were a political decision because the people I know, who work at the Ministry and in administrative units would never issue such a decision on their own, would never. These people have been given decisions that say or are what none of us can get. I can't get a document on the administrative unit today to talk about living in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. When I receive any document issued by the administrative unit or the ministry of internal affairs, it says: Dragutin Mate, living in blah blah blah, born then, in short all my data is up. It says where I live. However, the Ministry issued decisions, and this was an individual approach, so I have little doubt about your individual approach, where it said they lived in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Now I don't know, on the third spruce left of the beech — or where? More. If you go and look at the documentation, I would strongly recommend that you do so, Mr Minister, to decisions issued during the period of Minister Kresalova, issued a decision to persons, I know at least two, with a name and surname, of course, where they were issued a decision to reside continuously in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from 1992 until the date of the decision. However, in the file of this person, the administrative unit to the official who dealt with this role, after the official duty, of course, is the documentation in which this person checked out of his permanent residence as a foreigner in Slovenia this year, moved to the territory of one of the former republics or new countries that were created outside the territory of the former Yugoslavia, after a year, two returned to the territory of Slovenia, after a year, two more left Slovenia and returned again. And there are documents available to the authorities of this country, the administrative unit, the signed applications, the applications, everything. However, the Ministry issued a decision that this person lived in the Republic of Slovenia continuously. If I know of one or two such persons, I believe there are many more such decisions. If you're interested, I can tell you my name. I wouldn't want the general public to put anyone on a pranger. This suggests an individual relationship that was not an official relationship. Officials are not to blame for this. This is a political decision made by Minister Bohinc and Minister Kresalov. We need to be very precise here. I personally believe that this law must be adopted as soon as possible. I have made a personal effort to accept it from 2004 to 2008 and to make efforts. And there were different options. You too, Minister, know what the options were because you took part in this and were familiar with these procedures and the negotiating strategy in this regard. You were well aware, I know you were, because you were sitting at meetings where we talked about it. There were also envisaged compensations, of course limited. And some of the parties did not agree. They insisted that the state of Slovenia had erased people so that they did not exist. If you talk to an EU Minister of the Interior and tell him that someone has been evicted, this minister will ask you how you have any information about him. Then there's nothing in the register, there's nothing in any registry of the state. That's how they understand it in the West. Erased means that there is no data in any register of state, there is nothing about that person, nothing. And this did not happen in Slovenia, if anyone likes it or does not like it – for political or other reasons – it is irrelevant. All data on these persons are in Slovenian registers and we can therefore check what the status of these persons has been during this different period. More. When the State of Slovenia also amended the Citizenship Act to make it easier for persons in this category to acquire citizenship, the response was almost null and void. A few hundred out of twenty-five thousand have handled this status. A few hundred. And every time this number was lower, and you know it, because I'm pretty sure that all these professional services have put all these reports on the table in great detail, because they have prepared and there's no reason for you to get a different report than I've got. There's no reason. You're aware of that. Therefore, do not speak again, do not say that people who lived in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in 1992, when the law entered into force, did not have the opportunity to immediately regulate the status of a foreigner in Slovenia. Not citizenship, because we are talking about it today, they did not want citizenship. Yeah, I understand that, I respect that, but people don't want it for different reasons. The reasons are completely irrelevant. They don't want to, dot. But they had an opportunity to settle their foreign status. And don't tell us and the Slovenian public today that they couldn't handle it. They can be on special terms and in a very simple way. Everybody. That is why I think that we need to find a consensus in the law today, which unfortunately is not in the processes that we have had in Parliament so far, to find solutions that will reflect the reality. First of all, the law has no title and has not been deleted in its name because it has not been. There was no erasure. I insisted on doing so when I worked in this area, and I persist today. I can also very accurately base it, and I did. Secondly, to ensure the conditions and rights of those persons who actually lived in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or of those for whom you have used an ugly term which has been expelled. Someone who's on the territory of the country, that we're on the clear side of what's going to happen. When you are in the territory of a country, you can reside in the territory of this country under certain conditions: you are a national of this country, you have the right to live in the territory of this country; you have the status of a foreigner with a temporary residence or permanent residence permit; and you can be a foreigner who has travelled to this country, you have a visa that allows you how many days you can live in this country, or you're a foreigner who doesn't need a visa, and the state allows you for how many days in the territory of this country without any permission. It's usually 90 days. And if the police stopped someone who did not meet any of these conditions, of course, they led him to the border — and you call it banishment — they sent him out of the country. This is what all countries do. This is what Germany, Austria, all countries do, not Slovenia. Slovenia is not ugly about this, it is a basic rule that applies. There may be people in the country who are here under certain conditions. And some of these people were people who got their status. And there may also have been some mistake here that these persons were not told by the official authorities that they should or should be allowed to apply for a stay in Slovenia. Of course, those people who were outside the Republic of Slovenia then found it much harder to regulate documentation, much harder. However, it could still be regulated through the embassies of the Republic of Slovenia in each of the republics where they were, or in any third country, so that they had the opportunity to arrange this too. As a result, compensations need to be settled, and they need to be settled today. And I ask that no one then puts a word in my mouth that I do not respect the decision of the Constitutional Court or the European Court, they have judged as they have decided. And we have to respect that. The use of certain expressions is probably the fault of us because those who defended us used these expressions. Those who used them led to this and did not want to explain all the facts we know. They didn't know outside, and they don't know that Yugoslavia had no Yugoslav citizenship as a national, but that the republics of citizenship, which were the ones that then provided for federal citizenship. That is why I expect you, Mr Minister, to have a hearing for the amendments today so that we can find solutions that will preserve the good name and good wishes that the state of Slovenia had in 1992 when it addressed this issue. Of course, we will limit compensation exclusively to those who have experienced any particular injustice at any stage. And with some of the solutions that are now in marriage, unfortunately, there is no guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u19	The word has Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u20	Yes, these requirements are complex and complex, so each matter needs to be answered individually. I know this story very well, I was really familiar with all the data, reports and so on, and I know something about it. If I remember correctly, I had an average score of 9.6 in college, I have a Ph.D. since I was 29 years old, and it's hard for someone thirsty to take me over the water. It seems to me that we are speaking today or that we are on different frequencies, as if we were speaking different languages. You say the injustices of those who have been done must be rectified. For the first half of an hour, you're discussing how we're not going to do it, and then you're going to say that we have to fix the injustices. Great. Or you say, "It wasn't a problem at all in 1992," and then you say, "There was only one small problem that Parliament didn't allow those who lived here to live on." Yes, because that is the essence of the story, Mr Mate, that is exactly what Catch is, the fundamental error found by the courts, the Constitutional Court of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights, is precisely what Parliament did not say in 1992: "The same person who resides in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is a citizen of the former SFRJ, has the right to continue living here even if he has not decided on Slovenian citizenship." That is all we should write in the law at that time, and we would not have any problems with our Constitutional Court, nor with the European Court of Human Rights, nor with compensation. And that's when someone screwed it up. And I'm not talking about the State Secretary's guilt here. The Secretary of State, with all due respect to the late Mr Fattyak, has nothing to do with this, is nothing to do with this. We know who made that decision. The Minister was the proposer of the law, the government, Peterlet's present or the executive council, or as it was said, accepted it, proposed it, and the Assembly of the day decided to do so. At that time, even an amendment by Bulleta Mencin was tabled, which would have solved it, but it was not accepted. So, she knew exactly what was going on at the time. Then you say, "Yeah, everybody had a chance to work it out, but they didn't. " Read the law you have on your desk today, read it. And you will see that this law provides compensation only to those who have tried it and have not been able to arrange it. The 1999 Status Regulation Act, amended in 2010, lays down very strict conditions for obtaining deleted status. The condition is that he lived continuously in Slovenia as an illegal in essence. Or that he couldn't get a permanent residence permit, so he tried and couldn't get one. Let's say he didn't have a valid passport, he didn't have a source of survival, like I said before, he was poor and so on. He could not return, he left Slovenia and could not return because of the war in Bosnia, he could not get a passport because of the war in Bosnia, for example, he was deported, expelled. Unless he was guilty of a crime. That's the other thing. We're not giving him anything. But the one who was deported because he couldn't afford a permanent residence permit, and he has that right. So we're talking about those who have actually been wronged. And don't talk to me today, "we're for correcting the injustices of those who were machined," and then you're against this law. That's not how your amendments work. You support the concept clearly, you talk about the amount of compensation, we will discuss it later, and you are talking about how to say, delete or transfer this matter. Is that what we're gonna do now? Is this the key to this marriage now or what? Not by correcting the wrongs of those you say you want to fix them, but by what we call them. Whether we say porridge or say cash. Please! You refer to your discussions with foreign ministers and the European Commissioner for Human Rights. Look, if this international community really thought as you say, then you wouldn't get on the table of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, then a European Commissioner for Human Rights would invite us even to a wider range of beneficiaries if you read a recent record, which has also been published in our newspapers. It is said that the international community knows precisely and does not underestimate the European Court of Human Rights. Look, they didn't fall for it. I don't care about the transition left and the transition right what do I know? It's about the law, legal arguments. They wouldn't fall for anyone in Strasbourg, even if they wanted to bring them around. And now my colleague has warned me that in Slovenia's defence of the ECHR, Slovenia has even insisted that it was only a transfer from one record to another. The court did not decide to do so — because it was an extermination. See, the rights they lost on the day they were "transferred" from one to the other were compulsory health insurance, social transfers, child allowances, social assistance, scholarships and the right to purchase an apartment in which they lived, belonging to those who had a permanent residence in Slovenia. So we can call it an deletion, you can call it a transfer, but a person lost a compulsory health insurance with that day. Do you know what that means? You have children, you all have – what does that mean if you don't have health insurance? Don't joke!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you. I think Mr. Mate wanted a replica. Here you go, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, Minister, obviously we're going to have a long day today, and you're going to keep trying to minimize whatever else says or make it out of whoever's explaining it, like they don't know what he's talking about. And you know exactly what I'm talking about. It is true that when someone no longer had regulated status in the Republic of Slovenia, he lost the right to health insurance, scholarship and everything else. And that didn't happen to him until he got his ID. What does every normal person do when he finds out he doesn't have a health insurance or doesn't get a scholarship next month? Do you want to ask why this happened to him? And when he finds out that this happened to him, and he figures out why this happened to him, get your status straight. And he was able to get his status back on track. I claim that each person in 1992, 1993, who was in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia before losing his personal document, could have settled the status of a foreigner. And so many and so many people didn't want to fix it. They insisted on their own that they had the right to be able, that they were citizens, that they lived here and insisted on doing so. They could have arranged it! That's an essential difference. By the way, you have to listen, I was talking about the Commissioner for Home Affairs and Justice, not about the Commissioner for Human Rights, with whom I talked several times about this subject, because that was where it belonged. And that you say that they were "moved", please, Minister, you know exactly how this happened, you are well aware and have not been "moved", not in this way to put their officials into nothing, many officials were working at the Ministry and it was necessary to transfer from one register to another. Because to vote and be in the voter register means to have citizenship. But someone who didn't have the right to vote, but he had to go to another register, had to create another register. If you are not in the register of foreigners, the status of permanent or temporary residence and you are not in the register of citizens, you must be in a register. And there was no erasure. Slovenia has all the data, with all the data on these persons, no data has been lost and destroyed by the State. But the thing is, they destroyed the data, they erased it. And if you compare this with the Baltic countries, what happened there, the newly created countries or, above all, one did not give them permission, it did not allow them citizenship, and the Russian Federation did not want to give it to them either. And that's why there was a problem because people were stateless, apathy, as it's called, professionally. We did not create this; each of these people had citizenship, which he later regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u23	Mr. Mate, since the replica can last three minutes, I have to stop you. Would you like another word, Dr. Virant?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u24	Mr Mate, you are obviously smarter than the European Court of Human Rights, you can stand up to this court and if the court called this event an deletion, you think we have the right here to say something different. O.K. You have the right to think that you know more and that you are smarter than the European Court of Human Rights. Second sentence. Officials weren't, and they didn't do anything. Officials didn't do anything. This was a mistake made by politics, so don't give me one word about it. I won't assign the blame to current, interim or current officials at the Ministry. It was a political mistake. And the third time. Anyone who hasn't tried to regulate his status, as you say, has no right to compensation. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Minister, in the introduction, you sounded very optimistic, and the continuation of the debate shows that it is difficult for those who have put an interpellation against you and the third item is the interpretation of the law just being considered, to expect them to support the law, which I must say I am not satisfied with, and yet I will support it. It supported the adoption of the Slovenian compensation scheme by the European Court of Human Rights. There's only one reason why I'm not happy with him. Because I feel the same way as the European Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe that everyone should be entitled to compensation. By what we have proposed and against which the proposed SDS amendment is also speaking, because it is obvious to you that you are extending the range of beneficiaries of compensation to those who have tried to regulate their status even if they have not been able to arrange this status, so in my opinion we should be entitled to enforce what we are talking about today, to join the compensation scheme, all deleted. But this is my opening position, which I must explain. Your second subtle, if words were not important, would have endured a critical judgment if the names were not followed by a palette of substantive differences between one and the other. And I'm only going to give you one small comparison. If people who were taken to a camp during World War II were told that they were displaced, they would protest because they were exiled. And it's the same here. In the discussions on deleted persons, it was also possible to hear such a definition, which was said to have been transferred from the Register of Permanent Populations to a dead record. Have someone who's smart explain to me what a dead record is. This was the record from which they could not exercise any rights. Therefore, for me, the term'remove' from the register of permanent residents is the only appropriate term that has been given legal status the moment it has become part of the law, and before that, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. We can use different terms. Whether those who did not have a regulated status were then expelled from the country or removed from the country. In any case, they could not reside in the country of Slovenia, that is a fact, and that they did not have these rights. The stories are different. Some have lived here without any rights, which Mr Minister has also talked about. As regards the number of persons who have been wronged, an investigative committee has been set up in Parliament. And go see what the investigative commission found on these numbers. We will also discuss the digitisation of archives this week, and we will have a wide range of options to say what digitisation can lead to. Thus, the basic baseline thesis must also be established. You say it's politics. I'd do the distinction. It's the government's policy of the day, not the opposition. Because of the need to say, it is not Parliament, not Parliament as a whole, but that Parliament, that part of Parliament that voted against the amendment that would annul this problem. And now, once again, how many times will it be necessary to say that we have promised in the independent documents that the situation in Slovenia will not deteriorate for anyone. For the entire long debate of Mr Dragutin Matej, I can only say what should anyone who has permanent residence in Slovenia, then the Republic of Slovenia, be assured by the independent promises that his status will not deteriorate, he thinks if he had a permanent residence in Slovenia. Can he think that his permanent residence will be taken from him? Nobody's talking about citizenship. Your party, Mr Mate, is called the Slovenian Democratic Party. And the democratic principle is that if an individual is allowed to reside in a country as a citizen or as a foreigner with the status of permanent residence or temporary residence, why should he take citizenship. Why should I? The question is only, and no one questions how someone has come to be a citizen. The problem is that the status of permanent residence has been removed from the Register of Permanent Populations. And here's the blame, and here's the sin to say so. And I will go on: ignorance is no sin, sin is in ignorance to persist. I think we've told each other these things so many times that we've cleared up what things we're dealing with. I, not this amendment, not the amendment that has to do with the nomination, not those other amendments, I can't support. However, I will not support this amendment yet because you are restoring the original dictatorship and you want to narrow it down again after the Minister's meeting with the ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you. The following is Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I would expect that when the Minister insults Members and Members that you will react, because the initial implementation of the Minister of the Interior was offensive and unacceptable in this House. Dear Minister, if you are talking about the fact that Members and Members of Parliament do not understand justice and the rule of law, then I ask you what right future generations have been entrusted with a few days ago by a billion and a half. With what right will you be in charge of an additional 12 billion in 2014? What right did you vote for the ZUJF in our government, even though you say you warned? It's sacred, what you do because you're on camera and you want to be the greatest righteous.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u29	Mrs Ramshak, let us stay with this content of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u30	I will stay with the content, but also warn the minister when he says that our way of thinking is wrong. How do you know how I think? And how do you have the right to tell me how to think?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u31	If I can define myself on this. The Minister relied on the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u32	Because so will I, if you'll let me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u33	And at least that's how I understood him, so I didn't interrupt. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u34	I will also talk about the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights if you leave this to me or interrupt me in every other word. I'm sorry about what we're doing with this marriage. I know that there is a need to respect the judgments of constitutional courts, every court and every human rights court. There is no doubt about this, nor in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I do not think that this House is wider. The only thing is whether we agree with the way you brought it to Parliament. Remember that the Slovenian Democratic Party wanted to have a general debate in this House just to clarify some things, but, of course, the coalition did not allow most of this. On the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, only representatives of so-called permanent population registers told you that they disagreed with your proposal. And where democracy is here, so that everyone has the opportunity to substantively supplement such a law. Let us remember in 2010, and I was not in Parliament at the time, but I closely monitored the debate in this Parliament when Minister Kresalov spoke, "so what are you talking about in the Slovenian Democratic Party about compensation, since no one is talking about compensation, there will be no compensation". What do we have on the table today? Today we have a law where we regulate precisely the compensations of so-called permanent population records and we are talking only about compensation, not about the status of persons. And by this law you also cause new injustices. If I can now focus on the very content of the law and why I oppose such a law and designation. Look, at the address you're talking about, it's in the law for damages to people who have been erased from the register of permanent residents. Then why does the first paragraph of Article 1 suddenly appear, hereinafter referred to as the deletion from the Register of Permanent Populations. Why is that necessary? I am sorry that this expression was not a delete, because I know very well how all the registers of the Ministry of the Interior work, because I actively participated in the regulation of these registers, not only in Slovenia alone, but many times before you did not work in the public administration, and I know very well how computer-managed registers were established. And to say today that Slovenia has erased these people is offensive to citizens and citizens. And to remind you of another term you used today. We don't have Bosnians, but we have Bosniaks. And I think you should apologize to all these citizens. I hope that at least part of our debates will be understood in that positive sense, because when we discuss, here is the place for these debates, and on the committees, and I think we could listen to the opposition, not just the coalition. To talk about not supporting the elimination of injustices is normal to support. But I will respect you when you stand up for all citizens and citizens. And I'll only tell you about the comparison. When you stand up for those who get 1,250 euros as their compensation is because they are victims of war violence [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u35	Look, Mrs. Ramshak, there must be a lot of people who may have been wronged in some way or other, but we are dealing with a very clear problem right now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u36	Yes, of course we are. Very clear. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u37	The problem identified in this law and only those who have been deleted and I ask that you remain focused on them in your debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you for your warning, Mr. President. I believe that there is no other discussion that suits you. But I'm really going to focus on this debate you're talking about. To talk now about saving what politics has not solved in the past and you are looking only at this side where the Slovenian Democratic Party sits. Mr Virant, as far as I know, you were also in the government at the time of Mr Bohinca, or you were Secretary of State, and you were Minister. Then why didn't you solve the problem? Where is your responsibility? Why not expose your personal responsibility? Nobody in this country wants to take responsibility. I will take responsibility for those decisions that I voted for in this National Assembly. And to knock on our conscience today the message and the Members for the decisions of others is unacceptable, it is hypocritical, unfortunately. I tell you once again that when you come to the National Assembly, be respectful of us Members and Members, because then you can also expect us to be respectful of you. To talk about us causing injustice and not wanting to eliminate injustices and not understanding justice and the rule of law, but to ask ourselves for the end, Mr Minister, do you understand justice? All citizens and citizens do not have the opportunity to obtain plane tickets under the same conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you. Dr. Virant has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u40	Look, for the first time in my political career, I was in a situation where I was responsible for this area in March this year. I was never a minister, not a secretary of state responsible for the issue of deleted. In March of this year, when I came to the Ministry, I saw that three months before the deadline set by the European Court of Human Rights had passed and nothing had been done. That it wasn't done practically nothing. There's a lot on the professional level, but there's nothing on the political side. Terribly irresponsible to the state and to taxpayers. And then I speeded things up, within four months, I passed the law through the government, and today you're looking at it here at second reading, and in November we're going to adopt it, and we're going to solve the problem. Another time. As a liberal, I will always advocate for the elimination of violations of all human rights anywhere. Today we have this problem and this law and this group of people who have been wronged. When we deal with others who have been wronged, I will equally vehemently and firmly defend them. Third time. We're back there, yes, because let's respect the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, but let's say it wasn't an deletion, it was a transfer. Judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, paragraph 4-112: The Court therefore finds that the facts of the case in question reveal the shortcomings of the Slovenian legal order, resulting in the continued denial of the right of compensation for infringement of their fundamental rights to the entire group of deleted persons. In its sentence, the court states that the defendant government must establish a domestic compensation scheme within one year of the sentence of this judgment. This is what we are doing today, if you are serious, press the "yes" button, otherwise I really cannot believe that you are advocating respect for judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you. Did you want a replica? Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u42	Mr. Minister, if you've never been responsible, you can't hold that. You were Minister in the government of Janez Janša 2004-2008 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u43	[[...]] [[microphone is not enabled]] for public administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u44	It doesn't matter. The government makes decisions and sends them to the National Assembly, as far as I know. And you had a chance to influence. You know very well that during the period 2009-2011 we sat together almost every week at certain work lunches, and I have not once heard you advocate the abolition and protection of human rights in the case of deleted persons, and therefore today I say that your responsibility is also in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Respectable. Let us ask ourselves whether it was legitimate that the State of Slovenia, and through it the then assembly, adopted optional, if I say so, legislation. Not that it was not legitimate, it was her duty, because the countries were falling apart and it is always regulated this way. And I also think it was right that those who did not want to become citizens were asked to settle for foreign status. The fact is, she invited them. Therefore, to me the insult is the mention of the former Secretary of State, who is deceased, because I find it unworthy, Mr Debelak, who is here, I have often seen the calls he has brought, with which they have been invited, what they have done. And I can posthumously trust him that he is a completely honest, proper and benevolent hotel. And because of that, Mr. Secretary, I find this unworthy to be posthumously insulting. But before that, you denied that you didn't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u47	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u48	Yeah, no, I have to clear up because you denied it before. [[...]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u49	What you're saying really doesn't hold. [[...]] This has not been said, so please take this into account and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u50	I'll read what it was. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u51	do not deepen the debate [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u52	I have a magnetogram. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u53	In a direction that is not good [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u54	"We can be justifiably angry and point our finger at those responsible for the deletion" and then are listed by Yes, the whole government. [[...]] Before that, you assured yourself that, as Minister of Government, you were not responsible for anything in another government. The whole government and those who accepted it at the time, and the Mag. The fat man must have been among those, since he was later compared to this in all these years, and I find it unworthy here. I must stand for those who are no longer among us. And you also said that it was people who wanted to live in Slovenia who couldn't. There's been a lot of these, but I also have to come from my case. In Slovenian Bistrica there was a military station which was then blocked because under the cover of the Red Cross came special forces from Niš. The officers of that time all moved out of their families in time. And some of their family members threatened to come back with guns before they left, "you'll see what we'll do." They didn't want to live with us, they didn't want to live with us, they didn't want to live with us, they didn't want to live with us, they didn't want to live with us, and they didn't want to. But they have arranged these statuses and will now be rewarded with compensation, and now they will be rewarded with compensation. A citizen of Slovenia who is not Slovenian and is not Slovenian, but is a loyal citizen of Slovenia, who was among the 170,000 who settled it at the time, recently told me that this is a great mess, what is being done now, that they will be like that, and he told me some of those names that had moved away, which were threatening then, and now they will be rewarded with huge damages. And that's what's gonna happen. That is why we have the right, or whether it is very legitimate and legal and fair, that at least the right terms are used, that what we propose in this second amendment is not to be used for the defamation of this country. For the profanity, the destruction of this country, now seems to be the only goal of this coalition of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u55	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u56	Why are you stopping me and not the others?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u57	You have crossed the line not only of this debate, but also of the attitude towards the government and the authorities in this country. And if you are talking about this subject, then be truly worthy in your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u58	Where am I not worthy? I have to say that amazing things are happening, how this country is muddy or those who advocate legal order, and that the courts are doing well and so on. Mr. Minister, you really said, "if you don't understand the principle of justice and the rule of law." I don't let my relationship with justice and honesty go to waste. I can't afford it! Because when individual contracts were first introduced, I resisted that this was unfair, in a factory. I don't know if you'd give up your money. I don't know. Look at the way the nails get stuck, literally into the coffin of this country. This assignment under the table, also said there were some strange people besides and fabulous commissions received [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u59	Mr Jerovšek, we are not talking about the debt, we are talking about the problem of the deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u60	Yeah, but look, these are similar, I can argue this way, I have a right. Mr President, you were in England when the president of the opposition told you that the task of the opposition was to ask her if what the government wanted hindered them and opposed them.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u61	But, Mr Jerovšek, let us be correct, they have a completely different way of involving the opposition in the debate when some current topic is open.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u62	The state has been operating for several centuries, and you've been trying to keep the state from working.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u63	Our Rules of Procedure do not allow you to do so, Mr Jerovšek, and I must remind you to stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u64	I think I'm holding on to him. That's how I understand parliamentaryism, and you'll find one all over the world. You can see for yourself, but now you're doing different things again, and you're disturbing me, of course. That's why I have to say that we don't talk about crime erased around the world, as some people do and say it was a crime of the country, and crimes, and even now, when you talk about how to point to those, will eventually become criminals. Master Krivic writes with such zeal about what I don't know, I don't know what expressions he uses, what this country has done to bring me another zeal in some court trial forward where the innocent have been convicted. Look, I'm gonna say this. We have to use the right word. It's not true they don't matter. They are very important because deletion is part of the terminology by which this country is destroyed. But it didn't happen. But the transmission happened. Matte and Grimes gave a very reasonable explanation. And that's true. You can't compare to what the Baltic States have done. You want this country to be as valuable as possible to have as much interest as possible in borrowing. And you're destroying the country, so let's say it. Not all who will now be rewarded with compensation want to live in this country. I know them personally. And the 170 thousand who have accepted this country as loyal citizens, today they are outraged that it is just so on average, there is no individuality of treatment. It's very flat-rate, or this number wouldn't be that big. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you. Dr. Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u66	In such a debate, one must be persistent and say the same thing 50 times. The European Court of Human Rights unanimously ruled, with the votes of all judges, that neither of them abstained, nor any of them opposed, ruled that in 1992 the Slovenian state had been deleted and that the State of Slovenia had to establish a compensation scheme for deleted. That's enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u68	Your Honor! I think it is time in this National Assembly that some Members stop mutilating people in the National Assembly and others. My procedural proposal is that if we do this, we also malign the country because people are a country. So please don't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you. The procedural proposal was made by Mrs Leila Hercegovac. We continue the debate. I give the word "magic." Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. At times these double criteria of the ruling coalition are very unusual when it comes to the expressions that one sets out for another in this national assembly, and they are all incredibly sensitive. But when it comes to the use of a concept that can put all citizens and citizens, all the people who live here, needlessly, unjustly, in a bad light, and then there is no problem. The wrong term goes on and even wants to be written in a marriage. It is true that the courts used the term deleted. But why? Because it was also used by the complainants and they took these things together because it was used in public discourse. But if we go to see how it was used in international law, the use of this concept is completely wrong. What happened in Slovenia is not in any way comparable to what happened in the Baltic countries, where massive human rights violations have actually occurred. During the period following its independence, Slovenia was even given as an example to these Baltic countries, how to arrange their situation as an ideal. This makes it most clear how huge the difference in the situation between Slovenia and the Baltic States is. Therefore, I simply cannot understand neither the relationship of the Minister nor the relationship of the coalition, which detracts from this. Yeah, if that's the way it's been used until now, we will. In no way is any judgment binding upon us that if one concept has been used wrongly and unjustly, we continue to use it wrongly and unjustly. On the contrary. Parliament is a separate legislative branch of power and has all the right and also the duty that if something is wrong, if a term is used incorrectly, it should be amended accordingly. And in this case, the only correct, only fair to the country of Slovenia is to use the term 'transfer', which is covered by the SDS amendment. Because it really happened and nothing else. Everything else is an injustice and a mistake to all — to the people who have conquered Slovenia, to all who live here as a whole. Before that, the minister said it was not the people's fault. That's right, just the conclusion you've drawn from this is wrong. It is precisely because they are not guilty that it is our duty to ensure that I do not injure the reputation of the state of Slovenia abroad with the wrong expression in the law needlessly. Which costs us a lot. This does not just have a political effect. If the country is in poor voice, if the country is burned, if the village itself helps with some wrong expression in the law, then it will be a country that foreign investors, all those seeking business partners, will avoid. And that's why we're all gonna live worse. This sort of condition, it costs each of you on., not just compensation, even the wrong use of concepts costs. In addition, once again, it is extremely unfair for everyone who lives here, to everyone who loves this country, to everyone who has done no harm to anyone. And to the country as a whole and to all citizens and citizens. And that's why we have to end this once and use the right expression. It doesn't cost anyone anything. It just takes a little good will. And I don't understand all those who, by insisting on the wrong expression, still want to help you to cherish the reputation of your own country in front of your own people and abroad. I just don't get it. Whoever has at least a minimal sense of the value of patriotism will certainly support our amendment. Whoever has a minimal sense of honesty will certainly support our amendment. But I want everyone else to be able to look in the mirror in the morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Majda Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u72	Because I said that I would not support the SDS amendments, which offer a second word for deleted persons, I feel called or in a group of those who are supposed to do harm to this country. This country was harmed by those who, in spite of the two decisions of the Constitutional Court in spite of the assessment of the constitutionality of the 1999 Act, were issued to the seven decisions which were issued as a result of constitutional complaints lodged in individual cases, to the five decisions issued in connection with the requirements for a referendum – this is only a fraction of what stopped the process of acquittal which was committed. If this procedure had ever happened before, not to mention what the European Court of Human Rights has imposed on us to delay the adoption of the compensation scheme, these are things that are detrimental to Slovenia's reputation. And that should be considered. All that you want to wear to others, even when you hide for a different expression, because in the end it might be acceptable for me to do something else, but all those who have ever studied something, you know that the word is a certain conceptual dimension, as determined by use. And the use of the word "extended" was in decisions and in law, Mr Grims. The law is referred to as 'amendments and additions to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia'. And here you have the word "delete" in Article 1. By putting yourself above the laws, over the parliament and imposing. But consider who is embarrassing the country, who is spying on it abroad, and then we will talk about who is hurting it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you. A replica of the replica is not possible, so it can be discussed later. Mrs. Janja Klasinc, you have your next debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would say that, in the National Assembly, when I don't know how many times we're talking about deleted issues, it's only one question — for those who respect human rights and freedoms, and for those who don't. This is a very simple matter. Not only human rights and freedoms, but also the rule of law. Here today we face the logic that the term "delete" is the reason that this country is being destroyed, while the fact of this deletion and the consequences that this erasure has brought to more than tens of thousands of people who have lived in Slovenia at the time of its independence, and this is no shame. But that doesn't destroy, in some people's opinion, our country, does it? And that's the tragedy: let's respect the decisions of the Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court, other courts, if it suits us, if it doesn't suit us, and then we don't have to respect them, we've heard them today. These are these interesting democratic logics of a party that has this democratically also in its title. I would now like to say who, in addition to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been mentioned several times in today's debate and the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, has also pointed out that the term "delete" is the correct term. Let me read it so I won't forget anyone because I made it. This was the United Nations Committee on Human Rights, the United Nations Committee on Economic and Social Rights, the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights and the other two institutions already mentioned. You know, now that we can hear all these institutions, we can be ashamed. This is what destroys the reputation of this country. And this law now, let's say, partially corrects the whole thing. Some of the previous laws have already partially rectified, but no one can fully correct them. What was done was done. And now, because of the misunderstanding that has been repeated here many times today, some Members and Members of Parliament are acting on the principle of a hundred times repeated lie will become the truth – and indeed, not all have had the opportunity to regulate their status. For a simple reason, the State, if it changes legislation as important as that of foreign law at the time when we made it our own, is obliged to inform everyone about it. They are not, no decisions have been taken, no one has been given decisions to regulate his status if he has not been a citizen. And what consciously interferes with citizenship is no accident, but it's a completely different matter. Indeed, Slovenia has been commended, and I have repeatedly stressed this, for the regulation of citizenship, the right to citizenship. We did this exemplaryly. But, allow me to remind you of the Slovenians who live all over the world, our emigrants, our people who went with the belly of bread to neighbouring countries, to European countries, to overseas countries. Many conscientiously refused to regulate the citizenship of those countries where they were staying because they were very conscious of the Slovenians. Some countries do not allow dual citizenship, nor do we, after all, now. Then why are we surprised that these people didn't want to take their citizenship? Because they had, it was a post-war period, let's be aware, during that post-war period, relations between the former Yugoslav republics had not yet been resolved, they had their houses, their parents' houses in their home countries, they did not know whether they would be able to inherit at all, but they wanted to remain residents of Slovenia because they were here. Some were even born. And let us not forget those Slovenians who had been permanently evicted just because they were born in another republic, because their parents were then staying there, but one, brother or sister, had this arranged, and this happened to one in the family. I know people like that, too. I have talked several times in the National Assembly about the cases that are being handled for the first time since we have dealt with this issue, this law that I met when I was driving from my office in Belgrade, where I was a journalist of Slovenian media, to Slovenia. On buses were people and most of all, I will repeat again, I have a tragic case of a mother with two children who was in Bosnia at the time of Slovenia's independence and was unable to return because of the war situations. After returning to Slovenia some time later, she came to the Long Bridge, to the border crossing, took her documents, and pierced them — our officers. I was shocked. I didn't know it was our country at the time. And then, as a reporter, I tried to report it on television, and I'm going to tell you that they wouldn't let me report it back then because that was the state policy. I'm ashamed of that. I am not ashamed of the country, I am ashamed of a group of people who were then in power and decided to deliberately punish people who were not Slovenian nationals and who did not want to take Slovenian citizenship. Therefore, once again, I am reminded of the various Slovenians who are conscious of Slovenians and live abroad and do not want to take any other citizenship as Slovenian. Look, we can talk about speculators here. In every large group of people who have been harmed in any way, there are speculators. And so nice of him to call me colleague Kavtičnik, that he had a family in the neighborhood, but she acted speculatively in this case, and he reported her. That's why I think everyone who knew about such speculators was obliged to report it to our authorities and prevent someone with speculation from coming to justice that they don't belong to. But most of them, as the Minister has already said, are those who belong to them. I think that even when the previous reference to this Parliament addressed the previous law, it was not a lie, what has been repeated today has been repeated repeatedly, that there will be no compensation under that law. After that law, there was no compensation under our law. The law did not provide for them, even though I was then convinced that they should be. And we've all been talking about it, you'll see, it's not smart to get rid of it, it'll come before the European Court of Human Rights. And that's what happened. What is it now? Now the European Court has forced us to do so, now we are solving it, and now one and the same people don't want us to solve it. I can't accept this amendment of the SDS in any way, and not in any other way, because it's a delusion. You're saying it's a deceiving. No, no, no. If you transfer the data from one base to another base, and this movement means that those you have moved lose all rights, today the minister has already told us what these rights are, it is not just the right to permanent residence. This has led to a number of others: social rights, health rights, education rights, scholarships and all other rights. After all, our Party, Positive Slovenia, will also propose in further discussion an amendment to erase the possibility of certain better housing opportunities for the injured. You know why? Only because these people were not in an equal position with all Slovenes and Slovenes at the time who lived in social housing and had the right to have a favourable solution to the housing problem under the Jasbinski Act. They didn't have those rights. They didn't have the right to work, they could only work in black. That is why this law is just because it regulates the rights of only those who could not actually solve their problem. Colleagues and colleagues, a little humanity, even for those we may not love for ideological reasons!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Fish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! It seems to me that injustices are being rectified and that we may indeed apologize to those who have actually been wronged. Probably no one else thinks about it. It's just not that simple. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party we support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because the amendment and the proposed text in the amendment actually reflect what happened to these persons under the law on foreigners after the legal deadline. It should be recalled, however, that our new country, through the adoption of the law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries, successors of Yugoslavia, has repeatedly called on these persons and has given them the opportunity to regulate their status to themselves and their families as well as to their children. They didn't. I don't know why. Everything happened on a marriage basis. However, we must not forget this, although it has been two decades since then that we have established a new democratic state, which some have paid even with their lives, so the new State has had the right to demand and verify the status of all the people who were in its territory at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I am very closely following your debate, your distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and I note that we agree that marriage is necessary. I also note that you are not entirely satisfied with the proposal of the law, not on the left, not on the right. And this, the well-respected Minister Virant, may also indicate that you have drawn up a good law that allows for a proper balance. I think that the European Court of Human Rights is not a political party, but an international court established in 1959. And on the basis of this court's judgment, we must adopt the law that we are considering today. If I start with another amendment to this law and to the next article, which touches on the word "delete" or "transfer". I will not support these amendments because I am interested in content and not form. Even if we call it transfer, there's still the fact that if you were in this record, you couldn't see a doctor, you couldn't keep working. And these people don't care what we call it. On the other hand, as we have already concluded today, the Law of the 1990s, which was called the Law on the Regulation of the Status, has defined this act as an deletion and the same period was applied by the Constitutional Court in 2013. It is obvious that it is necessary to stress several times and tell our citizens that Minister Virant, under this law, will not walk through Slovenia with a suitcase of money and share it with the deleted, but that each of these will have to play an administrative role so that, as the opposition members have already expressed themselves today, it is fair to get those who have tried to fix something to have problems. That's what we're paying compensation for, and by no means to everyone, which is what we're trying to misinterpret in public. That is to say, those who have not even blinked to stay, to work, to continue living in our country, or those who have even participated in the war for Slovenia on the side of the aggressor, of course, will not receive compensation and, of course, they will not be justified under this law. Nor is it true that at least the Members of the Civil Code do not listen or we do not listen to the arguments of the opposite party. On the committee we supported the amendment to Article 20, and our parliamentary group believes that, despite all this law, it is not necessary to grant additional privileges, but that this segment of people should be equal to Slovenian citizens in obtaining or running for housing. Therefore, we hope that, with respect for the opposition, you will support our amendment, which we, together with the DeSUS Members, are putting into Article 15, so that we can, in fact, regulate this equally throughout the law. The deleted are not satisfied either. On the one hand, we understand them on human scale, because if we do not adopt this law, of course they will face far higher damages before the European Court of Human Rights. There are already thousands of lawsuits pending before the European Court if we do not solve the case by having reason to reject them, that is to say that they will say, "return to your home country because this area is systematically regulated". And that is why, respected colleagues and colleagues, as well as respected citizens and citizens, we need this law. Also to safeguard the financial interests of Slovenia. The ossuaries fall on this already weak budget, and therefore we need this law so that they do not go to heaven and that the European Court will not have any compensation, I will say, the grounds that by this delay or by the non-admission of the law we do not give them the basis for them to start making decisions with high compensation. This is our responsibility today if politics has not had it in the last two decades or has had it too little. I will not look back, because then one of the opposition Members will tell me that I was still in the sandstone when it was deleted. What happened was, but today I am here and it is my responsibility to support this law also to safeguard the financial interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to all present. Look, I understand democracy as well as the parliamentary debate, but what is happening today, to discuss again the history of the deleted, is not going anywhere. We're gonna talk for five hours, and I've been getting this for so many hours that I feel really bad. Who is responsible for such a situation? Normally, the opposition says the transition left, but I'm also hearing it because it's irrelevant today. We need to get to the results, and today, and put the matter on the agenda, if possible, and correct the injustice. Not that it wasn't, someone says there's no such thing as a delete. I'm still a mayor, and I've already said that, I've visited a centennial in Nova Gorica, who was all good will, and she said, because I can't die, I don't have a ID, I don't have a medical card, because you can't even bury me. I don't know what this woman was guilty of, a Slovene woman who has been living in another republic since she was born and has returned to her homeland at an old age, and now all of a sudden you say she hasn't been erased. [[...]] I don't know what she was. It didn't exist, it didn't exist, it didn't exist. You see, this is the mistake of this country, this is our shame, and let's let these injustices be corrected. It's important to me that this law solves matters by person, not by package. Here things will be cleaned up, and I am sure that we can survive if they are erased or harmed in any way to accept the compensation we are now offering. I am also thinking that the European People's Party may, in its pamphlet on justice in Slovenia, have also thought about these events, this injustice. If that's what she meant, then I agree with her, but of course not. We do not force anyone not to respect the decisions of the courts, European, domestic or any other. I can't accept these amendments because they're going in a different direction. But I will support this law in my desire, as I said, that once these matters are removed from the agenda and, as far as possible, the injustices are corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First, let me say that I will not support the amendment to Article 2 for a number of reasons. The biggest reason, or one that holds, is the decisions of the Constitutional Court and all institutions in Europe, which we take into account or must comply with. You know, or else it saddens me, especially that this law is here – the law is the result of the deletion. If there had not been such an act more than 22 years ago, we would not be discussing it today. And, Your Honor, there's been a mistake. If it was intentional, it could lead to thinking about genocide. If it was an accident, and you have often talked about it by the representatives of the various parties that you have been in Parliament since the beginning, then if you had a bit of desire and will, those real wishes and wills, you would have made it right. That's not true. The largest SDS party, this event, or this disgrace, has "stretched away", forgive this expression, so that it can constantly pull it out of the drawer and influence people's feelings and begin to separate them. Just like the post-war killings and the partisans and so on. You constantly use and have something in your sleeve that you can – and at that time you've always attracted people's attention – talk about how or whether some individuals are going to exploit this country is going to exploit the rule of law. Yeah, I'm talking about this amendment that I'm not going to support.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u83	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Let's go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u84	Dear Gorenak, I was silent and listened to you. You've been saying a lot, something good, something wrapped up, and especially in the direction that you start another emotional charge in people, how these people who have been erased can also be blamed for the situation in our country and how they will be guilty when this law begins to apply. See, the basic constitutional law was passed in 2003 in the National Assembly. The basic law was adopted where certain solutions for these people had already been entered and could then be implemented. Those who had been deleted said that if this law was adopted, they would absolutely cancel. They didn't even think about any lawsuits or financial matters. Then the surprise of the SDS' biggest party at the time triggered in humans, I would say, an instigatory hatred against such a law, because you said how much money, how much injustice, and how much will happen if this law enters into force. And the 2004 referendum came and it fell at the referendum. Look, it saddens me, too, that today I am talking again about these things, that I am once again influencing the feelings of all these people who have been erased, who have no rights that have violated fundamental human rights. You know, I kind of remember because I'm from Dravograd, those years when we went to the choirs in mourning and asked Austria to consider Article 7. We also fought here for the rights of people who lived in Austria's Koroška. I know what it's like to live abroad. My son lives 10 years, 5 years in Germany, and 5 years now in France, and I'll tell you that he has no rights in any way. He has the same rights as other citizens, but he is not a national of that country, and he does not have a permanent residence in that country, but he has a temporary residence. We're talking here about people who were taken from their permanent residence. Of course there are as many truths as there are people. Every man, even here today, has heard how individuals say that the only right thing is that the only truth is that the only way is right and so on. We can't talk like that. If we're going to solve something, then everyone in their system has to admit that they made a mistake. You know, if you admit a mistake, then this mistake can go away. If you don't admit it, and you're constantly arguing that yours is the only thing right and that someone else has to fix something, then they're not taking it anywhere. And that's why we're here today. You're all saying how right it is to solve this, but it's been 20 years and we haven't solved it. It is no wonder, then, that the people who have trusted us to drive this country as we should have taken it, that it would be nice for them in this country, that we do not separate ourselves from people by nationality, by skin color, by religious confession, by world view, but from work, righteousness and honesty. That's my basic principle. I stick to these principles. That is why I will respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and other institutions, which speak of the fact that in Slovenia, unfortunately, a deletion was made in 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramšak has the floor on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like you to warn Members and Members who are not talking about the content of the amendment. I was alerted to these things several times by the President of the National Assembly or to the adjournment of my debate. While Mr Kavtičnik was knowingly speaking words that no one in this national assembly has spoken. We didn't talk about any national affiliation, no racial affiliation. This affects the feelings of people and citizens and citizens. But I think we were talking about facts. We talked about ways. We had substantive discussions, not politicization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I would really ask that in the future we all stick together to the rules of procedure and stick to the subject, then it will be easier for all of us if we put up with each other enough. Do you have a replica, if I'm not mistaken? Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Yes, to Mr. Kavticnik. Look, just the shoes belong to the hooves, someone said back. And if, for 11 years or 9 years, you miss the date of the deletion, it would be good to keep your mouth shut and not be ashamed. The delete was 26. 2. 1992, the transfer – what we propose, and you say it was in 2001. You'll see the magnetogram. But why I must protest is an insult to our citizens, Mr Kavtičnik. You were talking about the SDS triggering the urge of the citizens of Slovenia. Excuse me, you have insulted 2 million people, all citizens. The impulse is a characteristic, Mrs. Potrata could say it better than I could say it would be the one you set off in animals. And if you have Slovenian citizens for animals, then have them, I won't have them. An urge can't be triggered in humans, but it can be triggered in animals, wolves, dogs. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u89	Please, let's stay on the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u90	Me, I'm talking about impulse. It can't be triggered by people, and you're accusing us of setting them up with the citizens. But it is true that one topic is always ahead of the elections. You're new to Parliament, but I'll tell you what the topic will be before the elections, three, four, five, six months: the arms affair. And you're gonna set it off. That's gonna be dark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! It is clear and known that Positive Slovenia has been starting from the first, not only since the first reading of this law, but also in our documents, it is stated that we will strive to reach a point in the shortest way to correct the injustices that have been committed in the formation of our country. Of course, they were done at the time with the government's handiwork and also with parliament. And these are the injustices of 25,000 of our people who lived in the territory of Slovenia at that time. The faults that can be mitigated by such compensation or by such benefits as we present today, but I cannot completely eliminate them. While our Party, Positive Slovenia, is committed to correcting them in the best way possible and to mitigate their problem and their grief and disappointment over our country, it is clear that what was said in the consideration of the amendment to Article 2 is said to the effect that Positive Slovenia has nothing to do with this damage or with those acts adopted many years ago. Today, however, we have much to do with trying to make things right. And when we talk about the amendment to Article 2, I really care very, very much whether it's called transposition or deletion. If the "delete" term adopted by the Court of Human Rights of the European Union, which is also adopted by the Council of Europe, is the term adopted by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the one under which we understand the harm done to those people should then remain deleted. What does it mean, after all, that the term "deleted" would be replaced by "transferred"? Does that mean any minor damage? Does this mean a minor sin committed by the State of Slovenia to all these people? Does it mean a minor compensation? It doesn't mean anything. Nothing. In fact, it remains exactly the same in both cases, i.e. the term 'extended' and the term 'transferred'. It is true, however, that today's debate, including the debate at the beginning of this law's treatment, is causing all these people additional pain and disappointment at what has happened to them. Therefore, it would make sense that, as quickly and rationally as possible, we accept and begin to eliminate this damage that we have done to all these people. We'll never be able to do anything about this. This stain will never be completely erased. This stain will remain in some way, but the moral duty of our country is and also the rule of law requires us to respect the decisions of the Court of Human Rights, to respect the intentions of the Holy Europe and not least our Constitutional Court, and to do our utmost to bring ourselves closer to what the rule of law requires. I hope and wish that the adoption of this proposal for a law on the correction of injustices will satisfy to such an extent all legal acts and legal segments so as not to be re-committed by the Court of Human Rights of the European Union or by any other legal institution at the expense of the under-designation of all these provisions. I also hope and wish that this law would indeed be the last act in this sad story, which is being heard and monitored today by all those who belong to this circle, so that about 25,000 are deleted, that this will be the last act to correct this injustice. At the end of the day, we will learn nothing from this if we correct these injustices, if it is not clear to us that we must act and act, adopt laws also in Parliament, such as are in accordance with the European Union's legal standards and not least our countries. In order not to cause harm to people, not to violate the fundamental principles of a democratic state. This, I think, is important, after the end of this bill on the correction of injustices, that we learn that we need to be more careful and not be satisfied with the handiwork that I believe was just, not a handful, but that it was quite a measure of revenge for those people who may have thought otherwise or had a different status. So this is not right and I want this proposal to be adopted in a short process, in order to begin to eliminate, as far as possible, all of the injustices that have been caused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. In this round of debaters, however, Mr Jakob Preseknik has been announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to this debate, it seems to me that some of us are also doing this translation, and there is that some are trying to erase all traces of each other, but most of us have already been somewhere or have been somewhere. It is not entirely right to give up any influence in the past. I always stick with one party, one parliamentary group, and even if it's going bad, I'm not going anywhere. That's what this is about. Another time. I believe it is the desire and will to see this matter removed once from the repertoire of this National Assembly. I, too, believe that it is about time and that many mistakes have been made in this area in the past on all sides. After all, they were, as we say, always left and right majority, and unfortunately none of this matter has been settled. It is my own view that injustices must be corrected, whoever has done them, and there is no point in going today for all the years. However, I have always advocated the individual linkage of individual cases. And because of this individual treatment, we have also tabled an amendment before the Committee to Article 2, and unfortunately this has not been accepted. But now it's what it is, it's the law. I personally think, even at the Minister's presentation in the parliamentary group, I said that it is likely that this is going towards the best that can be done at this point. Also because we have the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, we have a hearing on the world of ministers of the Council of Europe. The only thing that might bother me about this matter is that I have one question for the minister. When you, Mr Minister, reported back then from Strasbourg, you gave the Slovenian public a clear message through the media, that proposal was at the first reading, the previous day, it seems to me, in the National Assembly, that it was somehow confirmed that it had received a green light without any special comments, and then you made some changes for the second reading. I don't get that. I too have been a few days behind this or a week after that in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, and I have also received information in Strasbourg that the proposal for this law has been well adopted in the Council of Europe's ministers' world. So this part, I apologize for not taking part in the committee, but this part is not quite clear to me. And since the minister has already spoken to me, he will certainly explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We still have the replica. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Presecnik, I saw myself in here when you said that one of them was moving from one party to another. Yeah, I'm a liberal, and that's how I'm gonna stay. I was in the LDS from 2000 to 2004, when we talked about this technical law, so I also pointed out this technical law, which could have been passed, and the SDS did not agree and then somehow produced this referendum. As for the urge or "but the shoes belong to the hooves", so is the case. I'm not ashamed of my instincts, neither sexual nor fatherly, etc. We know the impulses of self-preservation, we know the different impulses that walk, but you know who walk. Experts are talking about head or brain damage. These instincts can walk. They can even disappear. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u97	Mr. Kavtičnik, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u98	And they're not even in some people's class anymore. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u99	Well, now it's a living proof of what's going on. The word gives the word when someone fires, and then we have another wave like that. I think Mr. Minister has signed up for the word and let's slowly end this circle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u100	A bit of a joke the first time you talk about moving from customer to client. For me, the only party I've ever been to in my life is the one I'm president of. So, I've never been to any party that I haven't been president of, which I'm sure won't stay that way for a long time. Now answer your question. I have worked very hard to present in Strasbourg how this law is being drafted. I have taken a very long time, twice on the Committee of Ministers, met with the Secretariat of the Council of Europe, and also met with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr Jagland. I also met with the President of the European Court of Human Rights and his team. I have also met with Mr Costa, former President of the European Court of Human Rights, so that I have really invested a lot of energy and conviction in this matter to convince him that this is a law that will give effect to the judgment that we will not have any further problems, so that Slovenia will have no problem. And at the last meeting of the Committee of Ministers, where, inter alia, they welcomed the presence of the Minister of Interior and also welcomed the fact that the law had already been adopted by the Government, they invited Slovenia, inter alia, to explain further whether it would have been deleted, which had attempted to obtain residence permits or Slovenian citizenship, and its application was rejected, entitled to compensation in accordance with that compensation scheme. But then it was September, and we didn't have those conclusions here, but they were even more explicit that we had to include them in the scheme. I first understood, I thought it meant everyone else's 14 grand. So also those who have never taken care of their status, and I have warned that such thinking would be contrary to the judgment of two complainants who have not taken care of their status and have not submitted their applications in Slovenia, would reject the appeal. And then we cleared things up. All they could think about were those who, under old foreign law, applied for permanent residence and could not obtain it. For example, because they did not have a valid passport from Bosnia or from another country, that they did not have a permanent source of survival or for any other reason, that they could not obtain a permanent residence permit and that after Slovenia regulated the status by law, this was the 1999 statute, which was amended in 2010, which then did not decide to apply. So they tried for their status, Slovenia did not give it to them, and then they arranged their lives differently. And when they got the chance to settle it under the 2010 law, they said, "Now it's too late, and now we're not going to do that." It will belong to them — but they do not care about their status — but they will be compensated. That's what the committee of ministers said back then, and we took this strictly into account. It is said that the circle of beneficiaries is defined exactly as required by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and the position of the Committee of Ministers. The relationship between the Committee of Ministers and the European Court of Human Rights is not fully cleared, so it is not clear who is who gives the last clue to the implementation of the judgment. I could say that the committee will give us the hook safely in December, that we have passed a law introducing a compensation scheme for deleted persons. Whether this law is perfectly right or fully in line with the judgment and European standards, the European Court of Human Rights will say definitively. Therefore, I must make it very clear that we do not have a 100% guarantee right now that what we accept is enough in Strasbourg. We assess, however, the experts who have prepared this law, and I personally assess that it is enough to come through this amount of compensation. Of course, no court will want to say in advance what its decision will be, and we too will have to wait for the following decisions. The Court has a huge number of pending lawsuits and will assess whether we have established a sufficiently good compensation scheme at home in Slovenia or have properly resolved the problem in Slovenia. I'm sure the court will say that yes and that no new charges will be brought. However, if it were to be assessed that we did not adequately resolve the compensation scheme in Slovenia, it would take new compensations into consideration. We also need to be prepared for this minimum option. In this case, we will have to react immediately and complete the law. The question of the suitability of the 1999 status law, which regulated the status, could also be raised in Strasbourg in 1999, was amended in 2010. A number of lawsuits have been made in Strasbourg on this subject, whether we have granted the right to permanent residence to all who have earned it or have the right to do so. In this regard too, I think that the law is appropriate that in reality, everyone who has been erased has expressed his interest, later made an activity, submitted an application, tried hard, wanted to stay in Slovenia, finally gave this opportunity and that it is enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Since I've noticed there's still a desire for a debate, I'm going to open the next round. So I'm asking everyone you want to sign up. I'm opening the application. We have 10 other panellists registered. The first is Mr Dragan Bosic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Depending on the time and the 10 applications, I'll be brief. First things first, as far as the amendment is concerned. I will not support this amendment, but I will support the law for all the reasons already presented by the Minister and who, as it is called, drink water. The fundamental dilemma that I have and I want to raise in my debate is the following. If it was a mistake in 1992, then a mistake is something that can be corrected. If we agree that this is a mistake, then a law based on what Europe has decided and in accordance with the Constitution is appropriate for this error to be rectified. It's another thing. If it's not a mistake, if it's a mistake, if it's something that we call logically a misinterpretation of facts, then there's something else in the back. Then there is the Latin definition of error, which is basically a fraud. If this was done in 1992, of course we cannot correct this deception. Finally, on the drive debate. I would be here as a biologist, not as a Member, but I would not go into discussions with regard to the registration of anything where I am not at home, but I would like to point out one thing. An impulse is a behavior that is designed specifically for the species. And given where we belong in the system, the fact is, in the system we belong to animals and have certain impulses. This is because these meetings of the National Assembly are sometimes watched by people, including those who are greatly deepening and thinking. And maybe this is where we misinterpret the thing that we don't have these instincts. It's clear we have them. But it is also clear that we can also fight them knowingly if I use this term. There was a lot of writing about it by Nobel laureate Conrad Lorenz. It's nice to read it if we have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Leila Hercegovac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u104	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am glad that we have this law on the table, because this has really contributed to the good name of our country of the Republic of Slovenia. I will not support the amendments to Article 2, because it is not a technical issue of entry or exit from a record, but rather the question of the constitutional right to freedom of movement and thus residence in the territory of one country. There's a lot of manipulation on this subject, but I'm not going to discuss it. I am also pleased with the clarifications made by the Minister, who has made it clear that this law is not ideal, that there are many shortcomings, but that it is a step forward for those who have been wronged and for the state of Slovenia and for the preservation of its name. That's why I won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u106	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! When I listen to these discussions, I really wonder whether our minister has really done enough to explain all the circumstances in which we have been erased or where we are. I'm sure he didn't do it enough because I hear him defending things that aren't. When I listened earlier to Mr Dragutin Matei, who systematically explained the whole process, what was going on, I am so much more convinced that those who were wronged are very few. But I can't believe it's the 11,000. With a better argument, with a better view, I think we could throw away a lot of things. The time in which this law came was a very difficult time, a crucial time for Slovenia. And if there was one hole that they couldn't predict, I believe they didn't do it on purpose. How many laws do we pass day by day that have huge holes?Oh, my God! We passed the Real Estate Tax Act, and the government is already predicting that it is preparing repairs. And citizenship, that's the biggest thing we as a country can give someone, we've given them, and we've been very generous. Anyone who wanted it could have got it. A gentleman from Bosnia told me that it was the simplest thing to get citizenship and that Slovenia is grateful for it. And why did so many and so many people accept this possibility and now live normally in Slovenia and therefore are grateful, satisfied and why did some speculate and not do so? I'm for the injustices to be rectified, who really couldn't, but it can be proven. But that the speculators will still make good money on this account, which I think is a huge injustice to this country. And when you talk about how merciful you are, well-intentioned. New Slovenia has proposed a law whereby war veterans for Slovenia could be given the opportunity to prove, on the basis of a medical certificate, that they still have the consequences of participating in the war, but you have not accepted it. Then do we really want to make amends? Are we really that kind? Only to some. We are not merciful to Slovenian citizens, to those who fought for Slovenia, and to those who manipulated them, they did not want to arrange their documents at the time, despite all the calls, but to them we are generous and will give millions and millions to Slovenia. I am not saying anything if we were a rich country with great economic progress, economic growth, if we had all the domestic problems. But, unfortunately, Slovenia, which is on the verge of asking for the assistance of the international community in debt, must be generous to those who have been wronged. Why are we obliged if someone is not our citizen, or are we really obliged to cover all of his costs of staying here? I don't feel obliged. We owe it to those who have been wronged, and those who did not want to settle this problem themselves, and to that I feel no duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you. As for the amendment, whether it's "delete" or "transmission," it seems to me that it's being manipulated. Errors from the past of the current authorities from 1991, 1992 should be corrected. Why? For the sake of electoral law, that is, for the sake of politics. For 12 years now, the SDS and the rest of the right have been deceiving how they are willing to correct all these injustices, and even those who speak of values in the spirit of Christian democracy and bet on individual freedom and the rule of law and even want to interpret because someone has proposed a law on deleted, on compensation because it harms Slovenia, it is, in my opinion, contrary to the sense of the rule of law. Of course, the deletion wasn't complete. At the time, the State acted systematically, and violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms must now be rectified. While the law seeks to compensate some 11,000 victims, the other 50% are open and will probably have to wait for the court to judge. Also, what they were doing in 2004 with Bavčar, when they wanted to be expelled, when they were not informing the injured, but the landlords, and two thirds of them left. If this law corrects injustice, it is a question. Maybe in part. Whether the proposal for the amount of compensation is realistic, remains open and will, of course, remain a bitter taste. So anyone who votes against this law will vote not to solve the problem, but to wait again for the European Court of Human Rights, where these damages will be twice or three times higher and we will face Europe as a state that systematically and deliberately violates human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me say that I will support this amendment to Article 2 of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but I regret that we are discussing terminology much, much too late. We can't even talk about terminology. I believe that this amendment probably doesn't have much of an opportunity to succeed, because the term "deleted" has somehow given birth to us. I do, and let me tell you, I understand in some negative connotation. Of course, we have many of these expressions of birth that parents fight for when they use them. Today, a little earlier, Mr Minister surprised me when it was only between us and the Slovenian public that he raised some doubts. On the one hand, it discusses the Committee of Ministers, on the other hand, the vague relationship between this Committee and the European Court of Human Rights. Who's the dominant here now? Probably a court. And for our understanding, of course, I am in favour of this and respect the judgment of each court, but on the other hand, the question is who defended Slovenian interests in this court. If the one who defended Slovenian interests also used the terminology "exterminated", then at the beginning we have already lost the story. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, there's a heavy darkness ahead of us. I am proving to myself that I must be optimistic and that we are probably talking about this issue for the last time in the National Assembly. But the more I think about it, the more pessimistic I am, because once a marriage talks about money when it talks about 130 million in the first phase, then there's a problem. And here, don't mind me, many have appetites. Let me remind you again. This country comes from the great internal energy of Slovenia and the Slovenians. This has been associated with many generations, millenniums and culminated, as we all know, on June 25, 1991. We know what we had at the time, and we know the circumstances in which the legislation of that time came about. We had a war, we had aggressors. Even today I see those soldiers of the Yugoslav People's Army in the Long Village who were buried and held pipes against the territorial defence of Slovenia. And surely even then, the members of the congregation of that time were somehow in this spirit, in the spirit of this danger of aggression, adopting legislation at that time. Of course, the issue of trust in the new country was a key issue at the time. Many of the bad stories we have experienced throughout this self-sustaining history are, in my opinion, solely because of mistrust in this country, in the institutions of this country. We have already repeated many times, even today, but I think it is necessary for the Slovenian public to repeat it, and therefore I stress that the Foreigners Act, which is one of the independent laws, has given citizens of the former Republics of SFRJ the opportunity to regulate their status in the new country of Slovenia. Within two months, all had the opportunity to obtain Slovenian citizenship on favourable terms or to arrange for a permanent residence as a foreigner within the same period. Let me just remember. The Constitution, which was then formed, was broad - minded toward all people. We have a model set, which I am particularly proud of, the issue of minorities, both Hungarian and Italian. This is a modelly regulated issue, and this arrangement can be followed by the whole of Europe. And now I'm moving on. Many citizens of some republics have settled their status properly and in a timely manner. And that is exactly what I would like to stress here today. Dr. Gorenak was talking about the number 170,000. No problem. They've settled this status. Why not all of them? Because they wanted to be erased? Or more precisely – transferred from one register to another register? Or maybe they speculated? My answer is, they had no confidence in this country. This is a key question and the only answer. They didn't trust in this country. Those citizens of the former SFRY republics who had not properly regulated their status, and many of them did not even want it, have transferred it from the Register of Permanent Populations to another register. Let me finish, ladies and gentlemen. I'm in favor of correcting the wrongs, but for correcting all the wrongs. Let's be principled here, let's be parliamentarians here with a big opening and do it together, not a coalition, the opposition, all together, let's make some long-term concept of how to fix the injustices that are still open today. Everyone. Since by this law, I do not mind, the state allows an easy way of obtaining taxpayers' money to those who have once rejected Slovenia as a country because they simply did not trust it. And once again I ask, colleagues and colleagues, when will the remaining injustices be rectified, because we must be consistent in correcting injustices. Let's say those who were forcibly mobilized to the German army in World War II and to the material victims of World War II, and when we will bury the victims of the post-war killings with dignity and recognize their right to burial, which is actually the basis of human civilization, that is the basic element of human civilization. Come on, let's consider the concept of correcting all the injustices that anyone is suffering today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. You have a replica, Mrs. Potrata. Were you misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you. I mean, I recognize myself in a group of those who don't understand that in 1992, you said, in Slovenia, there was a war. There was no war back then. Mr Horvat, I do not know how many times it will be necessary to say that in the 1999 Constitutional Court decision, paragraph 16 clearly states that citizens of other republics who have not opted for Slovenian citizenship could not reasonably expect to be equal to foreigners who are yet to come to the Republic of Slovenia and that they will lose their permanent residence without any notice. The Slovenian Constitutional Court has written this down. Why am I talking about this? Since all the other foreigners who had a permanent residence when Slovenia gained independence in Slovenia retained this status of permanent residence. Only residents in other parts of the former common country have lost their permanent residence status. And citizenship is not something gifted, we are not talking about empathy, we are not talking about mercy, we are not talking about such emotional things, we are talking about legal issues. And it would still be possible to quote the Constitutional Court's decision, but only to say that, the Constitutional Court found that the constitutional principle of the protection of trust in law had been violated by erasure. And I argue that if what was respected by the independent documents was promised that no one would get worse, we would not be dealing with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I would really like to ask that we stick to the rules of procedure and replicas, as the replica is also implemented. Here you go, Mr. Horvath, you've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for giving me your word. In the procedural proposal, I would like to say that Mrs Poteta has abused the replica institute. I didn't say a word to her, maybe I had a lapsus linque, yeah, the war for Slovenia was in 1991, I was a participant, and then I guess I know I have the documents at home too, so riding on someone's mistake in the war year he was alone, but it's really a little low. But I also expected Mrs Potara to say more about the correction of injustices, including those I spoke about last time in my debate, and they are a fundamental element of human civilization, that is the right to burial. Nothing about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. As it is said, I have also pointed to the fact that if it is a replica, let us also be contentual. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, and you have the next word, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I must say that I am, of course, pleased today in my own way, that we have begun a second examination of the law that will correct the injustices that have been committed. But I am sad because every new treatment we try to turn into a direction to turn injustices into some kind of so-called victim of someone who has committed injustice. Something unacceptable is happening in this House. I am also sad because all those who have blamed it at that time, who are not in this House today, who might be able to say it, may be found or found themselves inside, if ever at that time, to say it out loud. He may be very clear when it comes to his participation, including why he did so. I haven't recognized him yet. However, according to the documents we see available, we have the names and surnames of the people who made the decision. I don't know why we're so moving around here, because these things are more or less clear. And to make it easier to understand that we can do something to correct injustices, we also need to be enlightened and clear about what was actually happening at the time. This is the only way and by repeating it, we can destroy this perversion that I've been listening to since 9:00 a.m. this morning. This 2nd article is trying to change the part that's very insulting to me. Deplorable in the part where some of my predecessors referred, which is interesting, in the first debate no, now in the second debate increasingly, because there is always a new formula, how to justify something that they would not accept and why it is bad, are new expressions. I, if you remember, have for the first time debated very clearly the first time that I do not agree with the words that are called justly deleted but deleted. I have already pointed out that if we use such expressions, we may even somehow justify certain certain events that have occurred illegally, which today is clearly and clearly proven and also judged to have actually been a mistake at the time. I can talk to you all today in a discussion with you all and we are thinking about whether it was an official or whether it was a political decision, whether it was intended or not, and the fact is that this was unacceptable and whatever we call it. That is why, today, by this law brought by the Minister to the National Assembly, we are really trying to correct these injustices that have occurred. Nevertheless, it was to say that 170 thousand people managed to solve their problem because they had settled their status in a timely manner and 25 thousand had not, but it was rude to say. But it's really rude. It's just that if I couldn't do it according to your explanation, I wouldn't really need this law. That's not true! One, twenty-five thousand, one hundred and seventy thousand, or as many as there are, this cannot happen. Of course, it must not be so much more because we have documents on which we can tell why it happened today. You know, and I'm going to be very clear today, and I'm going to say very loudly, you know, that the then Demos government in some, Mr. Horvat would say in a kind of spirit at the time, and I'm not going to be hunting now when the war was and when it wasn't, and the spirit was that in fact the politics decided to make it go away because it predicted and judged that it was better for Slovenia. Long - term and over time, this has proved to be even worse for Slovenia. I wasn't the ones you've discussed here in the past, whether compensation or not, were afraid of it, even had interpretations on this subject, and developed some theories of fear, you know what will happen now that we're going to go into some reverse image and show in Europe and in the world, what a shame has happened. In fact, even some of you turn over the story and say that we are demeaning ourselves in front of the whole world and even explaining how we have been in some other countries and even as an example, because you want to make these words again for some other action, how we have been exemplary because we have done so well, and that they should be exemplary in us to do something similar elsewhere when they come into a similar situation. I don't know if you hear what you're saying. I'm so sorry, my fellow Member, I'm going to cover with my hands for as long as it suits me. I must say, you're so unbelievably very handsome, too. And I must tell you that I admire you very much because I am still trying to understand non-verbal communication from you. That's nice. But it's not a nice act you're trying to justify. And I must say that this term that I have heard from your fellow Member today, that the offensive title of the law is only because it actually speaks of something that has not happened, and you are trying to simply put it into a new term, which is called, watch it now, this is really something amazing, I don't know if it exists in our country, the Minister will introduce me to the "reserve register". What kind of expression is that? Does anyone know that? So everything we don't know where it would be, what register we'll put in the reserve register. And when something happens, we'll just say it was a backup register. Don't joke, people! It's not like anything! I can't even explain to my daughter what a backup register is. A reserve register may be for those who think it is justified, only when they can use it and do it on behalf of something that is not called law or authority or is not credible. However, the fact is that the then authorities, including your fellow Member, when he was still a militia officer, insisted that in such cases, when it comes to telling a person that he does not have a permanent residence, "the administrative authority of internal affairs issues a decision on the cancellation of residence, which is not in accordance with the law," said Slavko Debalak. Even a cop knew he couldn't do it, but he insisted on making a political decision. And that's wrong. And now I'm going to tell you something else. It wasn't just Demos. Far from it. They were on the left and on the right. Until the first decision of the Constitutional Court, the left and right were silent. No one wanted to say it specifically, even public reporters, commentators, no one wanted to go into this story. And this must be admitted once in this national council. They were all quiet. Nobody wanted to fix it. However, when the first constitutional decision fell, some began to wake up and began to see that something really wrong had happened in that country. And when the second constitutional decision fell, it still wasn't enough. As far as terms are concerned, I apologize, everyone in this world understands the word term, not because we use it, but because they know conceptually what the word actually refers to. It's just me or part of this hall won't understand. This deadline was also discussed by the United Nations Human Rights Committee when they considered this topic as being contrary to the law. This term was used by the United Nations Committee on Economic and Social Rights, the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights. Finally, the European Court of Human Rights in the Kurić case also makes it very clear what this is about. And last but not least, our Constitutional Court has made this very clear. But no, the depravity goes on. Today I heard from one of your colleagues that the right words should be used. What are those real words again? Who's called here to say the right words? All I know is that the Slovenian language is written in spelling, the explanations for the use of words are clear and this terminology is used. Then we have the words written in the law, and this vocabulary is used further to facilitate our agreement. To understand a particular matter is a problem, and it always arises, from which point of view someone interprets and explains a thing. And most of the time you have special problems on that side. Who is to blame, Mrs. Ramshakov, you know best. Even today, you yourself have come to the point that you have even done something about it and that you know these procedures most. But what surprised me in the end is that when your colleague says it's a new expression again, it's this transmission. Transfer of what? Look, dear colleagues, we need to be aware of one thing, I know that you know all this well, but unfortunately, as you as a broken record repeat the same mantra, I will simply repeat so long as this law is not adopted, and so long as these injustices are not corrected. This is — and one thing is very simple — if decisions were made that could be appealed to, objected to, or simply failed to respond, then this problem would be solved, by the one who wanted to lead it politically in this direction. Decisions have never been made. People have most often learned that they do not exist, only for a year or two after they first sought either health care and found that they do not exist in the register or in any reserve register, they simply did not exist, and that they do not exist in other records where they should exist. And therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is high time that we wanted to talk about some of the spirit that Mr Horvat is talking about, I would be very pleased to learn today that in this spirit, after 20 years, the time has come for us to correct these injustices. But I agree with you, all injustices need to be talked about, we're only talking about deleted today, and that's the point. And when we talk about any others who have the right to a funeral, to anything, we'll talk about it. I'm sorry, but all we're talking about today is deleted. And if you do not wish to be in oblivion and memory erased, support this law and wash the conscience of all those who have committed this crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Since I do not see Mr Gorenak in the Chamber, we are moving on to the next debater. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Actually, I have to say, I feel like I'm in some kind of purgatory or we're actually doing something like what you'd call a cleaning service. Because the established parties in this country have not been able to admit for years and years that some of the injustices that we call them in one way or another have occurred, we must solve these matters as well as many other things now. I thought that somehow today we would all be happy to say, let us close this chapter, the shameful chapter whatever it is that understands it, and that we will not be dealing with this story again. However, I see that I have had some illusions here, because obviously this subject is still so hot, so interesting that today we have heard more of an introduction to the Minister's interpretation than how we are going to solve things properly and thereby erase our guilt or, above all, the guilt of those who have done so. We all know who did this, I'm not going into why it was so, why it happened, but the fact is it happened. And what is even more sad is that it was the eternal theme of parliamentary practice in Slovenia, and I hope to say that many of the Members were making a political career at the expense of the deleted, perhaps even in this House they would not be if they were not constantly like a Buddhist prayer mill spinning and spinning and turning these topics. And today, when it's time for us to actually say, "Mea culpa, mea maxima culpa, we made mistakes, we eliminate them, we don't eliminate them in such a way that we correct all injustices. And we reopen this question of who these people are, what were their intentions, what were their intentions, whether they were people who were speculators, whether they were people who were enemies of this country and so on. According to my behavior, there have been a lot of people in this group. There were people who didn't even know what it was, people who didn't want Slovenian citizenship, and they could. And here we are still mixing the acquisition of citizenship with the issue of deleted. They were people who were even born at that time, but they didn't get any documents, but they were born to parents who were erased. There have been cases like this. Of course, there were some speculators among them. But if we know about these people, we should process them. That's why I call upon all those who know this and who claim to have been speculators to identify themselves. And not to do what we do in the National Assembly all the time, it is a practice to generalize matters on a case-by-case basis. We use the induction method all the time. Sometimes it would be good if it were the other way around, to make a method of deduction, and to highlight cases that might be really problematic. Then they would have done less injustice to those who were not troublesome and who were in this role because they simply did not know whether they were ignorant or whether they were convinced that it was arranged because they were in railway, mining, military or not, which they found with certain documents at a particular place and then found that their documents were no longer there. We just put these people on a level to look through it, and you didn't see it because it didn't exist. And that's the worst thing that can happen to a man to lose your ego, that you're gone. And instead of really saying it now, we are finally trying to solve these things, in one way or another, half-breeding, a little better, we are still opening these things up today, and we hope that we will meet again on this subject in the National Assembly. I really hope we don't. Our client as a new party on this political scene is certainly not responsible for the deletion, nor is it responsible for the non-removal of its consequences. Nevertheless, we believe and believe that the National Assembly, as the highest body or legislative body, must recognise the extermination along with the consequences as a systematic and grave violation of human rights. Dr. Dragica Wedam Lukić, former President of the Constitutional Court, said of this shameful act: "The deletion was not completed, the state acted systematically." Well, and that's the sad essence of this problem. This is a sad fact, and I hope that all those we consider to be democrats will not reopen this story in this direction, because we really do not deserve this name of democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. We don't know about all the speculators, which is why we've always advocated in the SDS that things should be dealt with by looking at each individual story to prove and tell what happened to him. As it is said, injustices could have happened, things did not happen hand-to-hand, a new country was created and a new country was created. While some did not believe it, it happened, and some things and records had to be arranged. I am interested, and I will ask the Minister to respond if we have opened up a problem at a time when we were preparing the defence of the state in the Court of Human Rights. For the law of Jasbin was mentioned. After that law, people who had a decision to grant housing, for example, we know that they were workers, I don't know, Litostrova, Iskre, Ljubljana Bank, etc., who had the right to housing, and at that time some of these apartments were given up. It was possible under the Law of Jasbinsk. So either they bought it or they gave it up and got 30% of the value of the apartment paid off. I wonder if we've ever applied this because some of these people are also among the deleted. But someone who gave up the apartment, it's not a simple thing, had to consciously decide that he wouldn't be here and didn't want to be. And if you don't have this information right now, I'm going to ask you a question about this, because these people have already received some compensation and left this country at the time. But I don't think this has been used, at least according to my data, even though some people know these things and they also know the cases that appear among the deleted today. However, I think that someone who sells or gives up his apartment knew very well that he does not want to be a citizen, that he does not want to live here, because then he also left, and many have said so. So I would also ask you for this information because, of course, it will be easier to make decisions. And I'm going to break our amendment to Article 2. Some, as has been said, have been given decisions to be transferred from the register of permanent residents and to have their status regulated. I myself worked in the Igo Congregation, and I also had cases when people came with an old ID card when they needed a doctor. When I asked them why they didn't arrange it, they said they were sloppy, they were repeatedly invited, and they didn't go to the administrative unit, and so back in 1996, 1997 he had an old Yugoslav personal. That people didn't know what was going on, what was going on, despite the notifications and the calls, it was a little bit like that. That was the main news on TV, and you have to be really talented, or you're not here to miss that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, do you want a word now? Here you go, Minister Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u122	It'd be nice to listen to each other. I have already said many times today that compensation belongs only to those who have settled their status in Slovenia. However, the status could only be settled by those who, under the 2010 law, had proved that they had lived in the territory of Slovenia all the time, that is to say on their side is the burden of proof, or that they did not live because they were deported or removed from the country because of their disappearance or were unable to return to the country. So let's be perfectly clear. The hearing is completely individual and no one who left the country of their own volition can, could not get to the status of permanent residence later or be able to obtain compensation. The law needs to be scrutinized, and if you find a hole in it that speaks contrary to what I have now explained, then you must point to that provision with your finger and not speak to it. However, as far as this amendment is concerned, I would appeal to the opposition to support the law without this amendment, because if we all agree that injustice must be corrected if we all agree that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights must be respected, then it cannot be decisive how we call this event, delete or transfer. If that's why you don't support the marriage, then forgive me, it's a bureaucratic way of thinking, it's bureaucratic arrogance. You can't refuse one marriage because one thing is called something other than what you'd like to call it. This is pure bureaucracy at the highest political level. And if we want this country to develop in the administration a thinking that will not be bureaucratic, then we need to set an example, an example. Then Members must not think bureaucraticly. Cancel this, please, bureaucratic arrogant and support the law without this amendment, which only names the deletion as transfer to another record.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! It is interesting how much time, energy, and money we spend to correct mistakes in the past. It's also interesting that no one is responsible for this. And the people who made such decisions probably have a name and a last name. What will we accomplish with this law? In my opinion, nothing. We will not give people back dignity, not 20 years of lost life, nor dreams, nor children to those children who have not been recorded. That means we're one sad country. And we're going to experience that. And we say we're a state of law. For 20 years we have been scolding people and we hope to claim here that we are the rule of law, my dear people! We say we are a fair country. For 20 years we have been scolding people and saying that we are a just state, that we are a social state. Do you know what a social state is? That people who are poor, who somehow get in trouble to feel. It is not the case that the Slovenian who moved to any country of the world to delete it. Put yourself in a position to move anywhere for any reason. She didn't apologize, and there's no money to pay for it. Therefore, it is no wonder that this country is increasingly despised. The deleted from the board's meeting went from contempt to this country. And more and more citizens and those who live and do not yet have citizenship despise this country and hate it. And we Slovenians love this country. And we're gonna have to do the country one way we're gonna love it. I hope you've read the book Mehmedali Alicia Nobody. You have to read it, because I'm sure you didn't, and then you'd discuss it differently. Then we would not say that we must show Europe that we are a dignified country, that we are a rule of law, that we are a just state. Far from it. You know, it's good to read as much as possible, left and right newspapers and so on. In Youth 30. 10. Zvone Dragan, diplomat and negotiator of the troika with the SFRJ, sir in mature years, was not babbling, but said on the basis of his experience how he felt about today’s country. You know what he wrote? "It's our own fault, it's our own illusion of our own worth." And a lot of other wise thoughts. I suggest we really read it because he's already pointed the way we're going. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u125	Mr. Vogrin, the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u126	I'll tell the amendment. I think it would be good to conclude this debate as soon as possible and to channel energy into what we will do and what we will live from. Or our slogan and our greatest success will be to say in every session that we have successfully committed ourselves. How much longer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I've also noticed a desire to discuss it, so I'm going to open up an opportunity. We have three other panellists reported. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I also have to get involved in this debate, because it seems important to me to say some things that have affected me in this matter. Since this is a more general debate, I would say the following. It is very important to me, too, that the injustices we have committed must be corrected. As a lawyer, I am also aware that we must implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. And also the fact that the deleted did not receive a decision to delete them from the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia seems to me a big mistake. And if it wasn't done in that way, or if the deleted decisions had been made, someone has already said it today, but I will say it again, of course, I would get a document that would tell them that we deleted them, a document that we could also complain about. Thus, it was undeniable that some did not know that we had erased them. I would like to wish to all those who feel that there has been no injustice or injustice so severe that we can all put ourselves in the position of these people together and try to understand what they have endured. There's been a lot of talk about that, too, and I wouldn't be repeating it now. But I really don't think it's an honour for the Slovenians to have the European Court tell us that we've done people much wrong and that we have to correct this injustice. The effects of the deletion were different. The compensation we're going to pay under this law, or it brings some satisfaction for all these injustices, but believe me, you can't pay for everything in money. Those pains and all these problems that people have had are impossible to pay with money, but this compensation to some extent is a compensation for all their suffering. Of course, I will support this law myself, and I will also support some amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Branisel, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you, Vice President. There is a fact that some people have been wronged, and there is a fact that these injustices need to be corrected. This has been determined by the highest legal authority of both the European Union and our Constitutional Court. And there's no more debate, I hope. I am sorry that these matters must be dealt with by this government and our minister, if only we could deal with something else. What this deletion looked like, I wouldn't go back so much, the point is, it was done administratively. I would still like these ad-persons to be held accountable for this intervention in human rights. With the moment when these people became so-called deleted overnight without even knowing it, without having any legal means, they took these people's documents, pierced those documents with a stapler, loaded them into a marina and drove them to Kolpa, and at that point lost their right to a permanent residence, lost the housing rights that Mrs Jeraeva was talking about, lost their housing rights long before Jasbinski's law, lost their jobs, and so on, all that entails the fact and right to a permanent residence. And now we're moving around and finding out what satisfaction there is for this caused damage. I just hope that I'm mature enough to be able to determine this compensation on our own, otherwise it will be determined by foreigners. That law makes up some kind of package. This satisfaction consists of compensation and some kind of rights that are returned to these people. And that's what you need to look at in the package. Only this package will be judged by the European Court of Justice as to whether it is fair or not. We can easily draw some kind of right there, especially in Article 14, but by doing so, we risk that our business will fall, that the matter will be unbalanced and we will get what we do not want to be set in Strasbourg for this satisfaction in cash. I remember a lot of times, and now I'm going to say one example that points to this, and I'm not talking about people who have nothing to do with all this, but I'm talking about how civilized countries think. Dr. Jožet Pučnik's story, which had nothing to do with the deleted, but Dr. Jože Pučnik worked and lived in Germany, studied there, doctored there, taught there at the university. He's never been taken by German citizenship, and that's why no one was after him, which is why they didn't put him in the stamp, pierced the documents, and drove him to Shentil, according to my information. And we did this to our people. Even foreigners did not do to our people what we did to our people. We left the Pakistanis, the blacks, the Chinese, to live peacefully and function in this country, as if nothing had happened, and we hurt these people in such a way that we now have 20, 25 years after that big problems. I will not support the amendments, but I will support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. But we're talking about the amendment. I'm sure it's not a delete, but it's a transfer from one registry to another, and here it's purely the good will of the minister or coalition to support this amendment of ours, because it won't affect any of the things you've said before. I responded because mostly you're talking about a minority today, so about those so-called deleted ones, I'm saying they weren't erased, but whatever. I'd say a few words for most. Today, the Ministry or the Minister and Coalition are doing a great deal of damage to all those 190,000 foreign citizens who decided to live in Slovenia as foreigners with permanent residence at the time of the three-time call in 1992 or to take Slovenian citizenship. These people today have irreparable guilt. You can laugh whatever you want. Look, for the sake of loyalty and belief in the future of Slovenia, you will not give any compensation, but you will give compensation to those who did not believe in Slovenia, you will give compensation to those who then speculated, I know, personally know about a few cases, not long before Maximarket talked to the man who directly told me how they were being recruited at this moment to get as many of them to Cankar's home as possible, where Aksentijevic waited for them and explained to them how to invest it now. Look, Your Honor, there's not much more to be done. The Transition Left, this is my opinion, has sold its truth abroad. And that led to the judgment that we are witnessing today. Even now, I remember the performances of Mrs Beblereva here in this Chamber and her performances in the Council of Europe, how she has swung after Slovenia and independence. And these are the details that led the court to judgment as it was. And now, Minister, I ask you just a few more questions about how you will react to the applications they have submitted in the last five years, when these so-called deleted ones already know exactly how they will be compensated, and I am interested in how many of these people have now submitted, once again as deleted, and how you will deal with them. Or they also have damages because they've speculated for 20 years, and now they've remembered, wait, and now this can be business, and now we're going to invest. How will you respond to these questions, or are they included in this law so that they can receive compensation for each month of the so-called deletion and then compensation for all the costs incurred in this regard? Look, this is one big lump of the transition left that sold its truth in Brussels, and that's how this court decision came about. Just like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Before that, you did not warn Mr Horvath that he was dealing with me in a procedural proposal, but good. Now I ask you, on a procedural basis, to ask Mr Hroat for evidence of what statements Mrs Bebler in the Council of Europe has been maligning or how he has already said the name of the State of Slovenia. This is a serious accusation, I will not go into other things in his debate. But what he said about linking Mrs Bebler's direct link with the European Court of Human Rights is an honour for Mrs Bebler because it is right for you to defend human rights. But to say that her statements in the Council of Europe are responsible for the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, at least what I can expect from you, is to invite Mr Hroat to provide evidence of what he said. In the Council of Europe, there are magnetograms in parliamentary sessions, and please invite Mr Hroat to present these magnetograms.Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much for this procedural proposal. I would say so, Mr Croat himself is responsible for the words he has spoken here, so that he will probably defend them even if necessary. As for previous procedural proposals and replicas, however, when one of you or one of us abuses a replica, of course someone else gets the opportunity to abuse a procedural proposal. This is just one such unfinished story of our Parliament. We are done with the debates of the panellists. Does Mr. Secretary still have a wish? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u136	Of course, an explanation for that last one. Behold, we cannot wrong anyone with this law, because this law takes nothing away from anyone, nor the euro. If we correct one group of wrongs, we can't hurt anyone. In this way, it can be viewed only by someone from, I don't know, foss, hatred and intolerance, which is unacceptable in this House. Second thing. Until compensation, I think that for at least 20 years now I am explaining that compensation will be justified by those who have lived or lived in the territory of Slovenia and who have not been able to arrange their permanent residence or have tried to arrange their permanent residence but have not been able to. It does not cost you much to open this law and open the status law, although it is demanding, it is not easy legal reading, but you need to take some time and study it before you can think of stupidity, because, excuse me, you are deceiving people that people will get the feeling that there are some speculators who have disappeared from Slovenia in 1992 and are only now interested in Slovenia. There are, but we're not going to give it compensation because the law won't allow it. Read it! Look, I have a PhD in legal science, and I've been doing this for hours and days and months, and I know what I'm saying. I don't know if you've done enough of this. The third issue concerns me as a liberal of entertainment – sadness and fun at the same time when I see how the Slovenian left and Slovenian right react when they get a picture in a mirror from Europe, or from Brussels or Strasbourg. Left when he gets an economic picture in the mirror, he wants to break this mirror and says that Brussels is to blame because it shows us that we owe ourselves too much and that we have deficits and so on. The right hand is when we get our picture in the field of human rights. Let's think about it a little bit!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask once again whether anyone else would like to discuss Article 2 or the amendment and its related articles? Otherwise, we still have some open articles and amendments ahead of us. I suggest that if there is no desire to discuss it, we move on to Article 3. Mr Tonin has already made a statement in Article 3. I'll give you a chance to sign up. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will not touch that part of the amendment, which is linked to a long debate of terminology. However, I must say that I will not support this amendment because of other things, because it does not enforce the day of the deletion but imposes the day of the application of the right to compensation. This is unacceptable and I cannot support such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mag. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u140	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, many hard words have been spoken in this hall. In some ways, however, I think that we are all working hard in this room. that injustices are removed, of course, in such a way that new injustices are not caused. Today's debate and many debaters have cited cases, and I have asked myself this morning about at least two chiefs of administrative units who have already been in a long period of time and have also dealt with these things, i.e. deleted. They're both saying the same thing: that we have at least three types erased. The first guy is one who simply didn't believe in Slovenia and didn't want to settle his own status, not a foreigner, not anything, because he just didn't believe in Slovenia alone. That's the first guy. The second type of deleted is those who did not settle their status because they were not in Slovenia at the time of this old regulation. They also existed whether they went to war in the south or because of the war they could not come back to Slovenia. There were people like that. That's the other guy. But you have a third type, and these are the people who, because of their ignorance, the younger ones, perhaps even because of irresponsible parents, simply did not settle this status. And what bothers me personally about all this stuff is that we throw all these three guys erased into the same basket. I'll explain why. If you look at this Article 3 which speaks of the period of deletion. We reward this first category of those converters with this Article because the era of deletion is counted from the time it was deleted until they have tried to settle some status. Who first tried to get their status straight? Those who sincerely believed in Slovenia and those who wanted this mistake, which they had enjoyed when they did not arrange for it, would be eliminated as soon as possible, and these people would now receive a minor compensation because they were trying to settle the situation sooner and sooner as needed. However, those who were able to calculate and calculate later in 1993 and 1993, how and what will happen will receive greater compensation for this longer period of time. This is a fact, and it will be possible for the Minister to confirm that whoever tried to settle the status later will receive greater compensation. This is the principle that I cannot agree with, and this will be the main message why I will oppose this law, because I do not think that we should reward those who have postponed their status. It seems to me that it was trying to follow that that border point was when someone pointed out that it wasn't everyone's, but that someone indicated that they wanted to settle these things, but that those who did it later were rewarded, which I don't think is acceptable, and I think it's wrong. That is why I will support the amendment of the opposition colleagues who in some way improve this Article 3 and at least draw closer to what I have just discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u142	I think it was the first such rational debate on this side. This problem, which you have just highlighted, we have been very much thinking and discussing in the section, the Interdepartmental Group at the Ministry. I myself had this same thought, but the concept of the judgment of both the Slovenian Constitutional Court and the ECHR was set up in such a way that it was perfectly clear that, in fact, at the moment of deletion, the problem arose and that the problem lasted the entire time that it was deleted. In fact, there can be situations like what you said, but there is also a lot of safeguards against it, because people were only able to settle their status on condition that they actually lived in Slovenia, let's say in 1999, when the status law was passed, and then it was strengthened in 2010 to say now, but ha, it waited until 2010, and then it arranged. No, no, no. In 2010, only one who proved that he had lived in Slovenia all the time, that was almost impossible, or that he was not physically in Slovenia just because he left Slovenia, but could not return, or because he could not arrange his permanent residence. So to some extent, this problem for legislation is solved. To a certain extent, this problem, which you have highlighted, exists, but is unfortunately insurmountable because we are solving the compensation scheme in 2013. If we were to solve these things in 1992, we wouldn't have a problem at all. If we were to solve them in 1996, 1997, the dimension of the problem would be significantly smaller, because we are solving them in 2013, but there are certain things that we cannot do differently than the judgment that we have to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 3? If not, we are moving on to the next debate on Article 7. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. The essence of this law is just beginning. These are damages. It's nothing but money all the time, and it's all about money right now. This law has experienced exactly the fate that I have foretold for ten years when the transition left arrogantly rejected all constitutional and other laws, even though there will be no compensation, because there can be no compensation, and lied to the entire Slovenian public long and wide, and today it will present an account to it. It's a bid. First it was €40, now it's €50. And there is another comparison that I find sad to compare these people with those who suffered horribly under Nazism in Dachau, Auschwitz and other concentration camps. This comparison was based on the sum for which they raised the original sum in their own law in the coalition. This is offensive to all who actually suffered in German concentration camps, under Italian fascism and under all the other totalitarianisms of which Slovenia was the victim. It just doesn't work. In this case, it was nothing more than transferring someone from one registry to another. And what was the point? They haven't sent him a letter about it yet. That's the whole story that's been erased. However, if the letter had been sent to all, it would not have been so. So much for all those who don't even know what's really going on today. This is the essence of the Slovenian erasure. There was no special letter of recommendation, a decision against which to complain. Interestingly, in some administrative units, such as Kranj, we sent the recommended letters. Then how can we talk about erasure there? But that's another story, because in this story, there's so much nonsense in it, it's hard to list them all for a while. The point is, it's just money. And how do the media report this now? A billion euros was announced by Minister Virant in this House, he said, "if it goes well," I quote, "if anything goes wrong, the damages can also go well beyond a billion euros", which is why go look at the magnetogram. I've quoted this statement several times. He said that if I summed up the whole that this law now covers some EUR 130 million net, but if anything goes wrong, the damages can well exceed a billion euros. I took it a couple of times. I have always said that this is an official statement by Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, who predicts what will happen if anything goes wrong. And Murphy's marriage, which is the only thing that applies to this government, says, "if anything goes wrong, it's going to go wrong." And it will work for this marriage, believe me. As far as this government goes. When I said this, what the media are now publishing: "Yes, the opposition is threatening with billions of euros in damages." The opposition doesn't threaten anything. The opposition just says what the minister said. That is said, the opposition is now doing what the media should say. We should tell the media that the Minister's official statement that the 130 million net compensation already covered by this law is that there is still a possibility of three times the amount that can be appealed on the basis of that amendment you have adopted against the will of the opposition on the committee, that is to say that we are already there at about half a billion euros and that then, "if something goes wrong", if I quote the minister, "it will also be possible that the amount of compensation will greatly exceed a billion euros." These are all official statements by the Minister, which he will now be able to confirm or deny, but because they are magnetograms in the National Assembly. The media should inform the public that this is alarming, because the same transition left has been for ten years all the proposals we have been making, rejecting that compensation will not be, because there can be no compensation at all, because we are talking about compensation, that we are misleading the Slovenian public, because I was declared a Nazi with a family, because I warned that everything will eventually be generated in a bid on the amount of compensation. And, of course, we should say that in the SDS we were telling the truth and that she was completely lying to the opposite side, long and short, when she confronted us with all possible offensive expressions, from fairy tale tellers, manipulators, liars. We were all of us, only people didn't. Today, however, there is a moment of truth and a moment of grave silence in the central media reporting on everything, just not what the Minister has said and what we point out, which we rightly point out, because this account will be exposed to people. And what's worse, this account is completely out of the thumb, you've proven it yourself, when you first started with one number then you started with another number, you both have about the same justification, except for that supplement that I already mentioned. This is said to be a pure bidding, where you think how much you have to give, that it's about somehow going to go, which means that it's all from the thumb, which means that it can be half as low as it is, but at least the country will be halfway there. What is the underlying problem of this law is that we have always spoken or broken down or argued as far as the law goes. But you both, first you give a lump sum, and then you give the possibility of unlimited lawsuits, because all the obsolete hands that you've been relying on for no compensation start running again under this law. You're both giving them. You refer to that cap, but it's a very bad brake. For the great question is, when the Constitutional Court is over, believe me, that this law will end there, that the so-called deleted ones have already predicted, weighed values, whether it will say that this cap endures, or that the material damage must be recovered in full.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u145	The minister wanted a word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u146	Mr Grimes, you are a master of demagogies and manipulation. If I had the will to learn this, and thank God I don't have it, I think I could learn my whole life, and I can't get to your ankles about demagogies and manipulation. Look, I said the following. If we were to fully follow the requirements of the deleted organisations, this country would cost about one billion. The law you are enacting today will cost the country 130 million euros in five years on certain assumptions, and of course it is not possible to predict this in zero terms because we do not know how much of the deleted will be decided on for the action before the court. There's no psychic who can predict it today. We come from some very conservative assumptions. And the other thing. You say that the only problem with deletion was that they did not send the recommended mail — or how? Look, this is such a top-of-the-line manipulation that is not worth a Member. She's really not worth it. It is necessary to read the judgment of the Constitutional Court, to read the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and then to see what the essence of the deletion was. And you know because you must have flown over it at least. The point was that, at a certain point in time, 25 000 people in that country ceased their right of permanent residence, whether they were in its territory or elsewhere. It's the essence of the erasure and nothing else. Not whether it was sent by mail or by mail, or by note or without note. Stop with your hair, stop using all sorts of bureaucratic-arrogant excuses, because you're missing the point. If you hold to what has been heard on this right side many times today, that you are in favour of the injustices being corrected, that you are in favour of correcting them individually, that is to say, from the case that you are in favour of Slovenia respecting the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, then today you will press your vote "for" this law. Everything else is an excuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u147	Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u148	Now I ask you to invite the Minister to an immediate apology. First of all, he's cruelly sorry. Secondly, he is extremely rude when it comes to the judgments of the Constitutional Court. But he used to refer to his doctorate a little while ago. If I read the judgments carefully, I would know that the original problem in all judgments is that it was a transfer in which decisions were not subsequently issued after an appropriate procedure, against which people could exercise their rights to judicial and secondary protection. Since they could not complain, then all those consequences occurred. And that's the essence of the whole story of the so-called erasure. However, if this condition were fulfilled, it was also the amendment that some in the opposition referred to, and unfortunately was not adopted then 20 years ago, then it would not have been possible to talk about all of this in this way, as today. Once again, however, it is interesting that some such notices have also been recommended. But it was not really in this system, there was no whole process, and here we have nothing, but the Constitutional Court has ruled as it is. Unfortunately, there have also been some circumstances that are not discussed today. There was a time of war, there was a time when people massed their families abroad, knowingly not to sign off on citizenship or permanent residence, because otherwise they would have had to comply with Slovenian law, and thus knowingly violated the law. But these are elements that were weighed by the Constitutional Court and gave priority to the fact that there was no possibility of protection. And because there was no protection, they took the view that these things needed to be arranged differently and put things back into the legal order. The way to do so is left to this national assembly. Nor are the decisions of the European Court of Justice so binding and so unequivocal that each dot and branch should be carried out blindly. No country does that. How to accomplish these things, and how to make this right, is a decision, a scissors and a canvas in the hands of a coalition. And once again, I'm gonna say what I started, what I started with. The time to solve this problem was, in fact, 10 years ago, when Minister Bohince and I had already agreed on a constitutional law that would regulate these things once and for all, and all these dimensions, all these procedures and all these costs would never have happened. At that time, this was rejected with a mockery that there would be no compensation, for there could never be, for all the hands had grown old. There's compensation here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes, with your procedural proposal, you have entered the content. Thank you very much on the left for your constant warning. Let me run the session. Mr Grimes went into the content, but I think he was led by a minister who went to a personal level of accounting with a Member. I hope that we can avoid this by apologizing or not apologizing to each other elsewhere. I give the floor to Mrs. Dimitrovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. With regard to the amount of the compensation of EUR 50, it is worth noting that the practice of the European Court of Justice shows that in the compensation schemes the compensation is paid at 40 to 50 % of the amount of compensation awarded from the pilot action. With this height, we improve our favourable confirmation of the European Court of Justice. And, Mr Grimes, today we are talking about the victims of the erasion, and today you are constantly standing up to yourselves in your debates as a victim, how you have been the target of lying and I do not know what you are doing. So please refrain from making such comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u151	Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you very much. All those who said there would be no compensation did not lie, because there are no compensations according to the Slovenian legal order. We have been reminded of this by the European Court of Human Rights, and that is all that follows now. If then the SDS party had a serious intention to settle this matter, then this matter would have been settled and no lawsuits would have taken place. This case would have been settled. People, so-called deleted, would get the right that was taken away from them in 1992. So I apologize, I did say in 2001, but in 1992 there was an erasion. And since there's been an erasion, it's an incomprehensible thing. I've really been thinking over and over that a mistake has been made. However, after all these years of such efforts by the SDS party that the matter does not come to the bottom, that the matter is not resolved, that it is always talking about some people, so-called manipulators, who would like to use our country to get some resources that would want some rights that are above the rights of others, and that really saddens me and leads me in the direction that the matter has been manipulated and really done on purpose. Look, as the minister said, no one takes anything from this law, but certain groups of people return only basic dignity, these are human rights that we all have in this country. That is why I will not support this amendment, but I will support the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss Article 7? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I'm protesting your comments to the Minister. It is understandable that, at the expense of Members and Members of Parliament, it is unacceptable that, like those who hold the meeting, you comment on the Minister's statements. Everyone thinks as he thinks, and has the right to say it. Now why don't I support the amendment to Article 7. In fact, this reduces the flat-rate compensation; as this has been determined, colleague Dimitrovski said. However, I would also point out in this respect that it combines material and intangible damage, that the direction that the Minister discusses before we adopt this compensation scheme and individual actions in the Strasbourg court will have material consequences, financial consequences for the country are significantly higher. As far as the speech on compensation is concerned, which Mr Grims repeatedly renews, so far, as I know, no court has awarded compensation in Slovenia to any person who has been erased because there was no legal basis. That is why we have also received a lesson from the European Court of Human Rights because we do not have a systemic solution. And that's the right thing to say. Scare with millions and I don't know what kind of damages it's always been a welcome excuse to stumble into a status law. We have a status law without talking about compensation, but we have already said many times that the right to compensation is a constitutional right. And since this injustice, which we call an erasure, has been committed by the State, it is unfortunately also a duty for the State to settle the damage that has occurred. Those who simply do not accept this fact will simply have to accept what will come from Europe again if we do not solve it well enough and resolve it quickly enough. Whether this is well resolved, the Constitutional Court will say, and not least, the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mrs Dimic, I would just say that holding a meeting means listening and thinking, among other things. And of course, there's a lot more to it than reading what the professional services here have written to me. I believe you'll all have to deal with this one day. Mrs. Dimic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will support the amendment to Article 7, because, you know, not least, it is true, I believe that there have been many cases of speculators who did not believe that Slovenia will become and remain independent. As stated in the newspaper Window of Administration, in April 2003, where the then head of the Internal Affairs Department of the Cerknica Administrative Unit wrote down the following: "It happened that in the Cerknica Administrative Unit, when a citizen of the former SFRJ on the day of independence burned the Slovenian flag and then fled to the Federal Republic of Germany, he did not receive an entry visa to Slovenia for seven years. When he returned and reported to the Cerknica Administrative Unit a short time ago, he was proud to tell us that Slovenia would apologize to him. However, he is not the only one who further explains and claims that Slovenia will apologize and threaten with the Constitutional Court." She also warned that some citizens from the republics of the former Yugoslavia have three passports, Bosnian, Yugoslav and Slovenian. And they just show the one that's most convenient to them right now. This was published publicly in the April 2003 Window of Administration. I think that this has already pointed to the attitude towards Slovenia alone and that these matters really need to be looked at in much more detail. Finally, I am asked a question – will this gentleman be entitled to compensation after the letter of the law? I think this was also an insult, but if we subtract all of these, there is certainly no reasonable amount of compensation in these difficult times for Slovenia in all of this legislation, which has been adopted in the past week, so, as I have said, I will support this amendment to Article 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u158	There's no point in dementing it. This gentleman will not be entitled to compensation because he does not fulfil the basic conditions under the status law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u159	Mr. Meh, did you want a word? Here you go, Mr. Meh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u160	It keeps repeating that there was a war at the time. It was deleted in 1992. This must be said out loud and not to lie or excuse acts that have happened unjustly, unjustif there was no need. Therefore, it would be right to talk as little as possible about this vile act as possible, a stain on the history of our country, to eliminate as soon as possible the pill we have received and to correct the injustices we have committed. That seems to be the point of the whole thing. Today, repeating the stories that have been told so many times and repeating the untruths and all that, just means that as soon as the law is passed, the responsibility of those who have cooked it must also be triggered. They have to answer, it's not just playing with the constitution, with our history or our position and everything. That's why I can't support the amendment. In any case, I would like to say something, honourable Members and Members, and so would you, Madam Vice-President. Mr Minister may have been a Member, but he is now the Minister of the Slovenian Government, and I am convinced that it is right to give him due respect, as is necessary, and to warn those who need to be warned, otherwise we are constantly subject to the fact that we must say in the meantime that these are not business or procedural debates. Once again, I will not support it, let us keep silent at this time, accept the law, correct the injustices, and we will do the most for our people, for our country, and for the injustices that have certainly been done.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. I fully agree with you, but you probably agree with me that we all deserve due respect in here. Here you go, Mr. Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I support what my colleague Srečko said should be said as little as possible and adopted this law immediately. Look, there's been a lot of talk today about what you know, how many individual cases you know. It's not a problem. Just do what I did. I went to the board of directors, turned in an individual like that, and he didn't get his citizenship. You do that, and I don't think there's any problem. However, I am convinced that our country and the relevant ministry will be able to review the case from case to case and to find out what is true and what is not true and to take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We're at the 7th. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, we move on to Article 8. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS Group which no longer has time to discuss. Anybody else want to discuss it? Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The amendment to the Social Democrats is not acceptable because it proposes shortening in the process of determining the financial compensation from three years to one year. For procedures that are complex, which are difficult, a reasonable deadline should be laid down and I think that the applicant has duly fixed that deadline and therefore the amendment is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u165	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. We are moving on to Article 10 and to the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We are moving on to Article 12, which I am putting to the debate. We also have here an amendment from the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We still have paragraphs 15, 20 and 22. Since the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 22 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Groups of the National List and DeSUS to Article 20, we will discuss them together. I shall put to the debate Articles 15, 20, 22 and 22 of the SDS Group's amendment to Articles 15 and 22, the amendment of the Parliamentary Groups of the Civil Gazette and DeSUS to Article 15 and the amendment of the members of the positive Slovenia and SD to Article 20. Anybody want to talk? There's more to the debate. I'm opening up an opportunity to apply. Four have been reported. The first one has the word "magic." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. I will only support the amendment to the 20th Article of the Group of the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. A proposal was put forward on the Committee to draw the word as a priority from the eligibility of non-profit housing and thus remain only equal or in line with the principle of equality. I reviewed housing legislation, examined the rules on the allocation of non-profit dwellings, but of course the first explanation for this article of the law. And it seems to me that, just as the original article 20 was written, the record was appropriate. In the first paragraph, he only equated the right to acquire housing with everyone, since European law has been transposed into housing law, which opens up opportunities for non-profit rent or for the right to housing for all others who are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but have permanent residence in Slovenia. The second paragraph, however, took into account the fact that, as a result of this, I understand, the integration of material and intangible damage that has been done by deletions as a specific form of exercise of rights is this advantage that they have in the allocation of non-profit dwellings. In particular, to say that the applicant would be entitled to an apartment with a non-profit rent, he should first meet all the conditions for granting a non-profit apartment. This means that, with its social status, it should justify this with its benefits. I'll read you six from the 2011 apartment code. Article, priority categories of applicants, as they all cover themselves with those that you also find in the explanation for the law, but there is only one category. See, it says, "the advantage of a family with multiple children, with fewer employees, young and young families, disabled persons and families with disabilities, long-term citizens who are homeless or tenants, victims of domestic violence, victims of the status of victims of war violence and applicants who are important to the congregation in terms of their profession or activity". And in this category, according to the two parliamentary groups that have tabled these amendments, deleted as victims of war violence should also be included. This means that only a few of those additional points would be obtained, but still those who publish the call have the possibility to decide which priority treatment category would be taken into account. This means not to write in the law that they are equal, but to say that from other beneficiaries such as scholarships or health insurance, and everything else also takes into account the possibility of running for a non-profit apartment, I stress that it must meet all the conditions if it wants to cooperate. Other citizens are now equal to Slovenian citizens and can run for these apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Fishich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! However, we support the amendment of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party and, of course, the deletion of the priority treatment for these persons in the procedures for obtaining non-profit housing and social protection programmes, as such provisions would put other people in an unequal position in Slovenia. For us in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, priority is given to these people, in addition to providing them with monetary and other compensation, an unacceptable way of dealing with this problem. While this government imposes new and higher taxes and obligations on citizens, with thousands of young families waiting for housing, with an increasing number of young unemployed, and the fact that you will end the possibility of including young people in public work in this meeting with a new labour market law, it is also unacceptable to establish the advantage of being erased in obtaining housing or social assistance for us. As far as Article 20 and the amendments are concerned, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support the amendment of the two coalition groups, as it is unfair to all other people in Slovenia. As I have already pointed out in the consideration of the amendment in Article 15, we would like to reiterate that it is unacceptable for us to see the deleted as a priority category in the allocation of non-profit dwellings. The already envisaged compensation under this law will further vacate our social treasury and budget. It is impossible to understand and understand that you accept such provisions in this law and, on the other hand, you have abolished the protective allowance for the elderly who are in the social institution. You are also here now many who have easily abolished state pensions for those who have obtained legally under Article 53 of the previous law on pension and disability insurance, since it was mainly farmers and craftsmen who worked their entire lives in the family, on a farm and so on, and in the past they should not even be insured. You have just abolished the benefits for our citizens who have managed to find work in neighbouring countries. You did not support the proposal of the law of colleagues from Nova Slovenije. This session will reopen the deadline for people with disabilities, the wars for Slovenia. Machete, as social fines for large families and underage students, you return reduced rights in the form of child allowances and scholarships, while on the other hand increasing taxes. You have accepted a property tax and increased health care contributions. It is unacceptable that you did not even support our amendment, the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, to at least check that there are not those who were on the aggressor side of the then war for Slovenia among the beneficiaries. Both the Constitutional Decision and the European Court of Justice’s reasoning clearly state that at least the interest after staying with us must be expressed in order to have the right to seek compensation. We think it is quite simple and clear that whoever was on the aggressor's side certainly had no interest in staying or going back to Slovenia, so we are against the amendment and such a law. By adopting the priority treatment deleted when receiving social assistance or obtaining non-profit housing, you will also do new wrongs to all other citizens or residents in Slovenia and to many young families who have been waiting for help or housing for years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dimitrovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would like to point out that the purpose of the amendment of the Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats is to align only the baseline situation deleted from the other beneficiaries of non-profit housing, as they have so far been discriminated against because of the impossibility of applying permanent residence status compared to others. Of course, our proposal does not mean an automatic right to a non-profit apartment. The provision of the Article, which has been deleted in some way, sets out the status of the vulnerable group and gives them the opportunity or right to run for non-profit housing under more favourable conditions. This provision, however, means that we place them alongside other vulnerable groups such as Roma, disabled persons, single mothers and single parents. They will be deleted if this amendment is adopted, eligible for a non-profit flat only if they fulfil all the conditions on the invitation to tender, with their role on the basis of the law in view of the fact that they have been deleted, points slightly higher or more favourable. I will support this amendment myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Kurnjek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, we will support the amendment to Article 15 tabled by colleagues from DeSUS. However, we will not support the amendments to Articles 20 and 22. In Article 15, we believe that the deletion of the words "and priority" provides for an equal situation which has been deleted from all other citizens. On the basis of housing law, they will also be deleted on the basis of their social status in the same situation as other citizens in the same situation. What is the situation, Mrs Potrate said earlier. I would like to touch only a few words already mentioned by one of my fellow Members in Article 2, when she mentioned that one of the reasons for prioritising the granting of a non-profit flat is also that they were not able to obtain a non-profit apartment or the possibility of buying a non-profit apartment under the so-called Yazbinski law. I must say that in the former Yugoslavia, all workers have paid for their housing contributions, and later, when social housing went for sale under the so-called "Jabinski Law", not all of them had the opportunity to buy such housing under very favourable conditions, but only those who benefited from such housing at the time had the opportunity to do so. However, those who did not benefit or lived in their homes did not later receive any compensation for having previously paid a housing contribution and indirectly made it possible to buy social housing on favourable terms. Many of our citizens were in an unequal situation at the time, as had been said earlier, that they had also been wiped out in an unequal situation with those who could buy those apartments. In the Citizens' List, we will support our amendment to Article 15, which is also followed by an amendment to Article 20, which we have supported on the home working body, which was tabled by the SDS party. I also predict support for the entire law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We are close to the end of the debate on open articles and amendments. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Yes, I know, we're following you, Mrs. Potrat. Here you go, Mrs. Potter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr Ribič listed a series of laws that this coalition has done wrong. However, these two parliamentary groups put school nutrition into the 2012 budget, but Article 160 of the current law speaks of equal citizens of the European Union in the acquisition of non-profit housing [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The minister has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u176	At one point of the debate, I have to take the floor to propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the same meeting, we also hold a third hearing and adopt a law. We must be aware that we are already late, that the European Court has ordered us to adopt the compensation scheme within one year, that is, by 26 June of this year. This deadline was delayed because it was too slow on this marriage. When the current government came to power, in particular when I came to the Ministry, I made this a priority. I've already promised you this at the hearing, and in a really short time with an excellent team, only one part is present here today with me, the law is prepared, put through the government into the National Assembly. It would be very wise to finally adopt it at this meeting of the National Assembly to inform the Council of Europe of this before the next meeting of the Committee of Ministers, which will be held in early December. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you, Minister. We've taken note of your proposal. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mrs. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Hello again! In Article 15, I would like to make it clear that today many anomalies have been made, that this article provides for other forms of just satisfaction and that, in addition to compensation, it provides for seven other institutions to which they will be entitled to be deleted, if I say so, from the payment of the contribution to compulsory health insurance all the way to access to the educational system. In this article, we will support our amendment and the amendment of the DeSUS Group to erase the same treatment in resolving the housing issue and not as a priority, as is the current proposal in the law, because we believe that everything or that this priority treatment is not necessary here. However, as I have already announced in my words, I would suggest to Mr Ribič that he should read the second paragraph of Article 2 of the Law, because it is clearly stated in the second indent that no compensation will be granted to those who have been denied the application for status regulation due to the threat to public order, security or defence of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. It is said that there is no fear, once again, of getting compensation from someone who participated in the aggressor's side in the war for Slovenia. And let's stop, please, telling lies again, but first, if we sign up for the debate, let's even read the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you. This proposal would be good in all cases, Mrs Hočevar, I agree with you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Otherwise, we will conclude the debate on this article, including the debate on all the amendments that we will decide today, with the time frame of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to Minister Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! That there will be no doubt, I am aware that this law, which is before you today in your second reading, slightly improves the financial situation of political parties, as it is its main point that it prohibits donations by companies or legal persons in general. In return, however, we get a much cleaner and more transparent customer financing system, a system that reduces corruption risks, a system that reduces the risk that capital centres of power buy customer preference, services and privileges. According to the studies that have been carried out, you can also read this in the accompanying material to the law, political parties are assessed very badly, very negatively, so citizens see political parties as one of the more corrupt creations in this country. And now, whether anyone agrees or disagrees with it, this is some problem that we have to face and do what we can to make it better. I have already said on the committee that this law is not a magic wand and that I do not imagine that we will stop all corrupt practices in this country overnight in connection with the parties or that people will start trusting political parties overnight, but it is certainly an important step towards greater transparency and hygiene in the political system. The old saying is that it is not free to have lunch, and it is never known whether a company that donates to a political party has no specific interests in the background of amending legislation, after obtaining public contracts or any other benefits. You also have companies, this is not such a rare practice, which, just in case, donates to all political parties, to all alike. So I'd say a little rough, bet on all horses to be well-written with any party that wins the election. It would be very difficult to argue that such companies finance customers out of a belief or out of a desire to express their position. Donations by natural persons remain, even by entrepreneurs. For example, someone who is an entrepreneur, who has espé or a limited liability company with one member, can continue as an individual as a natural person to donate to a political party up to 15 average wages at an annual level, but not to an economic company. The current funding system also allows state-owned companies to finance political parties by province. For example, a party in power puts their people in state companies, gives them jobs to certain companies, and then these companies are legally funding political parties. We are now going to dry these swamps with this marriage novelty to a large extent. This law is very much linked to the amendment of the Law on Access to Public Information, which you will receive at first reading at the table on Friday. This is the novelty that provides the public with all the data and documents of companies in majority state and municipal ownership, the right to look into the business and documentation of all state-owned enterprises. Together, both laws follow the same purpose to make the business of state-owned enterprises more responsible, more economical or, if you want, fairer. The law brings some key changes, strengthens the supervision of the Court of Auditors over political parties, increases transparency of client financial reports, lowers the level of donations to be disclosed publicly and ensures that the reports are made public. More clearly defines what the contribution of a political party by very simple logic – all for which an account is made and paid – is the contribution of a political party, introduces a slightly different key to the allocation of budgetary resources between the parties, without altering the total amount of financing of the parties, raising penalties for violations of the law, simplifying the allocation of funds between groups of Members and political parties, without increasing the total amount of budgetary money for the parties by one euro, and bringing some administrative burdens, let's say that the parties will be able to broadcast their annual reports via the Apples web-based form.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Home Affairs. I give my word to the chairman of the committee. Mr. Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as the parent working body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions at the first meeting of the 16th session. 11. 2013 The National Assembly is at the 17th session of the 27th. 9. On the proposal for a law, 2013 held a general discussion and concluded that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. The proposed law aims to regulate mechanisms that will make it more effective to ensure that the financing of political parties is more transparent, that the data of the annual report of political parties are made publicly available, that effective monitoring of compliance with the provisions of the law is ensured, that appropriate measures and sanctions are used for violations and that other mechanisms are in place to prevent corruption and influence political parties' independence. The proposal supports the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, which constitute further alignment with the Commission's views on preventing corruption and the Court of Auditors and with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the amendments of the New Slovenia Group. The proposer opposes the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which maintain the current arrangements for the financing of political parties. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service mainly had a comment on Article 7, which reduces the range of permitted sources of financing for political parties. In its written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service expressed its concern about the proportionality of the proposed ban on contributions by legal persons and individuals and referred to it as an excessive legislative measure. As a source of funding, the profits of an undertaking whose ownership is a political party should also be eliminated, which, according to the SPS, should be reconsidered mainly in terms of interference with the benefits arising from ownership, as well as in relation to the principle of a free economic initiative. It also drew attention to concerns about the possibility of political parties to obtain budgetary resources for the education of Members, administrative and professional assistance in the work of the groups of Members and the organisation of sent offices. It also drew attention to the proposed amendments to the criminal provisions relating to the imposition of judicial powers to decide on certain offences and to the imposition of new sanctions. The representative of the Co-ordination of Non-Parliamentary Parties and Andrej Magajna said that in principle he agreed that the financing of political parties by companies could be a source of corruption while proposing a re-examination of the exceptions to that prohibition. In the debate, the Coalition Members expressed their support for the proposed law, which commits political parties to more transparent disclosure of their funding and gives additional powers to the Court of Auditors. They also supported the proposed ban on financing by economic operators, which will limit corruption risks. The opposition MEPs, however, objected to the proposed ban on the financing of political parties by legal persons and private parties, as they believe that corruption in politics will only increase. Therefore, in the direction of the recommendations of Greece and the comments of the SPS, they propose to maintain the existing funding regime while increasing the transparency of controls. The debate has repeatedly stressed that only amendments to human legislation will not change people's opinion. To enhance the reputation of Members and political parties, we are responsible to politicians alone with our ethical and moral behaviour. The representative of the proposers provided additional explanations and answers. Among other things, he drew attention to the Commission's proposal to prevent corruption in order to criminalise the illegal financing of political parties. The Committee then adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, the Social Democrats, the National Letter and DeSUS to Articles 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24 and 25, of the New Slovenia Group on Articles 8, 10 and 13 and of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on Article 15, and its amendment to Article 16, which states that the word "and fifth" shall be inserted after the word "and fifth" at the end of point 3. The Committee of the Other Amendments has not adopted or found that they are no longer appropriate. The Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the draft law after its final consideration in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 17th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 19 November 2013. I shall put to the debate Articles 7, 8, 10 and 12 and the amendments of the SDS Group to this Article, as well as the amendments of the NSI, SDS and SLS groups to Article 8. Since the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7 is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 8, 10 and 12, we will discuss them together. So I'm putting seven, eight, ten, and twelve into the debate. The article and the amendments mentioned above. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u184	Madam President, thank you for your word. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have already met twice with this law, both at the first reading and at the examination in the home working body and the position of the SDS Group is still the same. We believe that it is right that political parties can also finance legal persons, as well as private parties. There is much talk in this law on transparency, on public, on control, on reducing corruption risks and everything else, but in the SDS Group we believe that this law is moving away from what we all want, and this is the transparent functioning of political parties with as little corruption as possible. That is why we have also prepared certain amendments in the SDS Group, and once again, we have supported all those articles in the law that touch on transparency, the public, surveillance, greater transparency, the effectiveness of individual supervisory functions, except in this case when we are talking about funding by legal persons and private parties. The fact is that only 7% of the legal entities in Slovenia are funded by political parties according to known information from the Statistical Office, while all others are financed by public funds or from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The first fact in this law is what I may have noticed, at least so in the last days, by reporting individual media houses, how we share a larger amount of money with this law of the political party again. The fact is that this money buyer or this law will not increase the amount of money by one euro if we look at the 2014 budget, which is a matter of one or the other, the funds are even smaller. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is read very well, and the fact is that the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service also points to what we also point out in the SDS Group. First, some of the facts in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and then some practical cases, on the basis of which we believe that the transparency of the activities of political parties in order to eliminate the possibility of co-financing by legal persons and private parties will be reduced or that the corruption risks between the economy and, on the other hand, between policies through the financing of political parties will be even greater. Because sometimes they say what we are saying is wrong, just two, three sentences from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, that our public may also get a sense of what we are talking about, not just talking to ourselves, but also of what we like to say, and this is about democracy. And yes, democracy costs, political parties stand aside, although it would probably be most reasonable for everyone to be quiet in this law, because the public immediately grabs a piece of hunger when it comes to political parties. But we must be aware of the fact or wonder how many countries in the world operate without political parties. I don't think we have a country where anarchy would be in power. However, we have a country where only one party is in power, but I believe that the Minister is not the intention of this law or of the drafter of this law, so that the co-financing of political parties is born in such a way that certain right parties are won and wrongs are lost, as this would probably result in some dictatorship of a particular political party. I quote the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which challenges all these principles of how it is best to resolve the problem of co-financing political parties by preventing legal entities from financing them. As I said at the first reading, you have decided the easiest and fastest way, and in our view, the least transparent. You followed Greece's 2007 recommendations, i.e. their documents, which say, "from international acts, in particular the recommendations of Greece, there are findings which tend to be the focus of measures to ensure transparency, the public and the effectiveness of control". We do not have any problems with this in the SDS Group. Nor is it a ban on legal persons and individuals. In the introduction of the bill, the comparative review presented shows that there was almost no general ban on financing political parties from those sources at the level of the EU Member States. While you have mentioned France and Latvia, it is a matter of countries which have established their legislation on the basis of the same international legal frameworks. Furthermore, the Legislative and Legal Service writes: "From the point of view of pursuing the objective pursued, the question of the proportionality of the solution proposed is therefore raised in the introduction." Then there are two sides to what all of this means. Then there may be a few more phrases that the proposed restriction should be re-examined and weighed in terms of interference with the constitutional right to unification, so we are also talking about being at a thin border between what we can regulate legally and where on the other hand we are also colliding in the constitutional provisions of our Constitution. And the equality of passive electoral law. Then there is freedom of expression, Article 39 of the Constitution, and individual articles of the Constitution. And to conclude. They note here that, in terms of interference with freedom of expression, it is therefore necessary to consider carefully whether the prohibition to ensure an unquestionably legitimate objective is to prevent the risk of corruption and inappropriate interaction between political parties and economic operators, perhaps an excessive measure. You followed Greece's recommendation. It is not a directive of the European Union, but a recommendation from a body where its recommendations can be made restrictively, as you have taken it as an example, or they are examined a little and enforced by some other mechanisms in this law. I'm telling you again. With all those provisions that touch the inspectorate, the Court of Auditors, the Yipes, transparency, public oversight in the SDS, we have no problem. Unfortunately, since the first hearing, I have not been given the opportunity to review how many times in the past individual political parties have been reviewed by the Court of Auditors. I believe that the SDS are the most reviewed party. I myself have been in a position for a year when I have been doing a lot of work with the financing of the political party, not only ours, but also in general. I myself have once or twice been on the stand before the Court of Auditors, once because of the next law to be dealt with, due to the referendum campaign, and once for the financing of political parties when it comes to small things. Minister, with this bill of yours, if the SDS Parliamentary Amendment is not adopted, political parties will have problems with their operation. I am not talking about how some people want political parties not to be, but look at the example that I experienced just last week when, as a member of my congregation committee, I organized a charity run and then, of course, it came to people asking if I was going to run, I wouldn't run, and even if I wasn't running, but I would like to make a donation because it's a good purpose. Then we wondered how to obtain these funds as transparently as possible, and then to give to the one who was earmarked for it. Fortunately, I obtained the co-organizer of this charity run or charity event, which he himself took so long to open a special account at his club that funds could be collected. Such a moment as has happened this week, if this law is adopted below, it will not even happen. A few entrepreneurs said, "Tomaj, look, good purpose, we're going to make a contribution." I'm telling you, this other club was so good that it opened the account, we're not even gonna be able to have it anymore. When you talk about political parties and financing, you talk about the parties in general. But sometimes cases occur mainly in the local area when local committees acquire funds, but we are talking about the minimum amounts, from twenty-fifty to one hundred euros, where they want to contribute something because of charity or because of a purely local specific event of a political party or their committee. And now it won't be possible. Yes, I agree, they will be able to contribute as natural persons, and you have also gone very restrictively, because anyone who has more than €50 in his wallet will have to go to the bank first, and secondly, anyone who wants a little more, I am talking about a natural person, to contribute to political parties, will immediately be stuck to the banner. They will say, yes, Jože Novak contributed to this and this party, his name, surname, address, EMHO and all his information will be published. As a result of all these facts, people will want to avoid this purpose of the law that you are pursuing, which is transparency, the public and effective control, and there will be cases when both in the local area and the parties, I will say, at the national level, and in cooperation with legal entities as well, they are looking for some by-pass solutions. In this way, the legal entity will no longer finance political parties directly, but in cooperation with any local committee which parties this legal entity pays, I don't know, the service of buying flowers, the service of this, the service of that and the blurring of the financing of political parties will be even greater. That is why we believe that the transparency of this law will be greatly reduced, while at the same time greater risks will be posed by corruption. Instead of being, as it is in some normal world, when you can finance whoever wants, the same as with the Red Cross, you can finance anyone who wants to, above a limit that they are also publicly published, and everyone will love to contribute if they don't, as I said before, land on a pranger, but now with this law they will seek solutions, and this, Minister, is not a good purpose of this law. Therefore, once again, here we give you the opportunity to reconsider whether by abolishing legal persons and individuals you really are pursuing the goal you are always repeating, which is transparency and reducing corruption. However, public opinion polls show how political parties have laid down corruption, the minister, that this law will not give the public a break, but only a percentage of the better opinion on political parties. For them, we will still be Members, Ministers and all those who act in the parties, so don't be the one who needs to be abolished sooner than later. Minister, perhaps later on in other articles, even though we are talking about all the articles together, I suggest that you read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service again carefully and avoid this restrictive action that you have imposed on yourself, this is the total abolition of legal persons. We also agree with all the other measures that are in this law, including our amendments, whether to delete articles automatically or to make some amendments that are also following your good solutions. That is why we decided not to delete the articles, because then we would lose this transparency, transparency and the public opinion of the law that you are following. If you look at our amendments, all that the Law-Legal Service has warned about, which has warned Greece, and also what the purposes of your law, as you yourself have written down, follow this law. Only one difference is, co-financing by legal and private persons, we support everything else, but we believe that because of this, perhaps for you little things, the financing of political parties will be less transparent and more subject to corruption risks. Believe me, Minister, before you said you were the president of the new party, you were not on the party for 10 years, I have been on the local committee active in the political party, I have also had a position on the party at the national level, and I know how things are being handled. And even those who have played legal persons with open hands, whether they have financed one or more of them, will now be looking for passports and grey routes, how they will finance the client, whether it is a good client's intention or whether it is a political party's funding only in pre-election time. The Minister, really, think again, practice will show you that we were right and that our amendment is about making the operation of political parties more transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word was wanted by Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you. Because I saw that only Mr. Lisec applied for this amendment. Yes, in this law, I think we are very much in agreement and agree, but there are some conceptual issues where we have different views. And there's nothing wrong with that. One of these conceptual issues is whether the economy should be allowed to finance political parties or not, or whether companies should be allowed to finance political parties or not. It is true that the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out some of the risks of such an arrangement, but I firmly believe that this prohibition has no effect on freedom of association, that every individual in Slovenia can still enter any political party, can, along with others, establish a political party, not be threatened with its freedom of association. It also does not interfere with freedom of expression. Any entrepreneur can tell who his political favourite is, for which the client cheers and so on. They cannot and will not and will not be allowed to give money to political parties to prevent those same companies from reaching political parties after a while, when they come to power, they get ministers, Members of Parliament, and say, "We have donated so much and so much, but now we would like this law to change" or, "now we will, we can come to the minister first, because we have given the party something." That's what this is about. Once again, we all know that free lunch is not in principle and not all, but many businesses that give money to customers also have their own bills and their own calculations. Why should we point out why we would expose ourselves to these risks, especially why the parties themselves would be exposed to these pressures and to this false sense of duty, although I am sure that most of you would never agree to this logic because he donated something to us and we will do him a favor. But already this feeling that there is someone there who thinks that he can push because he made a donation is inappropriate and not good for democracy and for the political system. Therefore, it is my firm belief that it is right to suspend this funding by companies. It also seems to me that customers will have to operate through transaction accounts and that the contributions of natural persons can also come to the client's account if they are more than €50, only through a transaction account. In general, I think that in the economy we should move as far as possible to business through cards or transaction accounts, because this is the best way for all cash flows to follow. Cash, cash flows the supervisory authorities often do not see. We have quite a few stories from the past about how some bags of cash traveled up and down and how people could not explain the origin of this cash and the like. That's not good. It is particularly not good if it is happening at the very top of the political system. Let's make things clean if someone wants to donate to a client, go to a bank or open an online bank at home and tell the client everything will be well recorded, you'll know who paid. What's the problem? Clean accounts – good friends. That it would try to bypass, abuse and so on. Perhaps so, but here they come into play by the supervisory institution, in particular the Court of Auditors, which will be able to follow all transactions, all expenses, all the benefits that the party will receive. I am convinced that the Court of Auditors has these abilities and capacities to identify and sanction irregularities. However, I have already said on the committee that it seems to me that if we want to go all the way here, we should do one more thing so that the illegal financing of political parties should be defined as a crime, as they do in some countries. Then, really, apart from the most arrogant criminals, no one would have hoped to walk around with some bags of cash like this to fund customers. If this ban is constitutionally controversial or problematic, I also told the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service on the Committee, yes, then the current regime is problematic because we already have funding restrictions. No more than 10 average wages can a natural or legal person contribute a year to a political party, and this is, of course, some restriction. It can't be 100,000 euros or 200 000 euros, but it can only be 10 times the average gross salary, says about 15,000 euros today a natural or legal person can contribute to a political party in one year. According to the new report, it will remain the same for natural persons and companies will no longer be able to do so. Above all, it seems important to me that money will not flow from this state part of the property, our common assets, state-owned companies after one, two, three, four steps towards political parties, which is possible today. You have to admit it's possible. State-owned companies are not bound by public contracts, private companies with which these companies operate can give a donation to political parties, all legally, legally. No one can even tell today if something like this is happening. But it's not right. It's not good. So we're going to stay on different shores. It's nothing. Two different concepts, both legitimate, one country has such a set-up, the other countries have so arranged, unlike the previous law, where there is really no room for manoeuvre, the judgment must be respected, the injustices must be corrected, and here we have every opportunity to think differently and to say so, and that we agree or disagree with this proposed new concept. In the opening presentation, I did not specifically mention this because the time was running out that this law was actually prepared on the basis of the recommendations made by the Group of States against Corruption, namely Greece. Six years old, these recommendations, and I think it's time to adjust. But it is true, as you said, Mr Lisec, that this ban on financing by companies is not a requirement or a recommendation from Greece. Here we have taken another step forward in the direction of transparency and limiting corruption risks. In particular, I must point out that this law is in line with the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Court of Auditors, both supervisory institutions, which I thought was very important. Both institutions see the law as a step forward, they also have practice in controlling political parties, they both know where the problems are, and we have tried to solve these problems through law. I am particularly pleased that the law will receive the support of one part of the opposition. With New Slovenia, we have harmonised the law, adopted some of their amendments on the committee, Mr Horvat, and I think that we will also act at the plenary session so that New Slovenia can uphold the law and have very broad, almost constitutional support, which I think is very important.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you very much. There's still a desire to discuss it. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has a replica, then I open the application.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you. Minister, about state-owned enterprises. Just what is the first proof that this law won't be good either. State-owned companies can't finance political parties right now, but it's happening, you said it was happening. Despite what you are saying about the Court of Auditors, about the Ipes, about the inspection, you will not prevent it, or we will not prevent it, despite the good intentions of this law. And Mr. Secretary, you said, clean accounts. If we have a political party on the one hand and, on the other hand, a legal entity — A, B — were there a correlation between them if legal entities, if they could be financed, would be fully known. Now another third entity C will be involved, whether it be a florist, a printer, a car carrier, anything that is either a political party at the national level or a local account that can be fictitious. For example, there will be a printer who will not be allowed to finance political parties now, I don't know, because in the local area of a cousin or the best colleague of the president or a colleague of the councilman, anyway, and will issue some fictitious account for, for example, 2,000 euros of service rendered from that day on, and how the Court of Auditors will determine whether it was really a service or not. Now you have a completely easy traceability from a political party to a legal entity, now another third party will come and the Court of Auditors will have a much harder task of identifying what financing political parties, what is legal and what is illegal. And believe me, Minister, a lot of customers or businesses will decide on this activity. Trust me! As I said, I've been active in the local area, I've also been in a party in such a function, and we want you to have legal entities, yes, we agree, spread out, but let them finance political parties as they can finance the Red Cross, Karitas and everything else. Traceability will be reduced and transparency will be reduced, but unfortunately there will be greater corruption. Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u189	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you. Yes, see, of course, state-owned companies are not allowed to finance and finance political parties today by law. However, they can make purely legal transactions with private companies, and these private companies are once again legally funding political parties and the circle is concluded. No one can even say there's anything illegal. Soon we will see how much this has been, because we will extend transparency to these companies and the enlarged supervisor will show us what was going on. But the new law forbids it, prevents it. It just won't be possible anymore. And I am afraid that today's greater flow of purely legitimate money to political parties has exactly this origin, from our common assets, from state-owned enterprises. I don't know if there's a lot of purely private companies that don't have any business with the state and state-owned companies that fund political parties very much. But like I said at the beginning, it's true that we're losing something with this. Thus, out of a total of around 7 million, as far as every customer receives from different sources per year, so is membership, contributions from natural persons, legal persons, the state budget, municipal budgets, and between half a million and a half million from contributions from natural and legal persons. Here we do not have these statistics distributed between natural and legal persons. So, yes, by about one week to one tenth, the amount of money for the customers will be reduced by this. But on the other hand, the situation for each customer will be much cleaner. No one's gonna be able to put up an account, but now you owe me a favor here, and even if you don't want to do it. But there won't be any pressure. The Court of Auditors will be able to look at everything. This is one of the great novelties of this law that the Court of Auditors may go to look at the documentation and business not only in the client but also in the companies with which the party operates. And the anomalies you mentioned will be exposed. And I don't think companies are going to be able to serve them, because here we run into crimes like tax evasion, money laundering, etc. This is no longer just a matter of illegal financing for a party, but it can also be a crime of tax evasion or money laundering. For example, companies do certain services, services to customers, etc. Of course you can, but they're going to have to put a full account in order to do that. If they do the service under price, it will be illegal financing, subject to penalties, sanctions and reimbursement or payment of this money for humanitarian purposes. You mentioned earlier that you had trouble collecting money for humanitarian purposes. See, if there is will and desire, and this is commendable, you must greet., Here of course the way is easy to find. This is what foundations, societies, Karitas, the Red Cross and so on, these are charities. Political parties do not have this in their activities, but if they do something like this, it can be commendable, but it is necessary to find an appropriate legal way that is not difficult to find, and it will not be difficult to find it in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you very much. As I see the desire for further discussion, I am opening an application for the debate on Articles 7, 8, 10 and 12 and the amendments tabled. The first word is Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Minister, you know that we have already given our arguments on the Committee on the Interior why we do not support your proposal or the coalition proposal in the part where we are talking about financing political parties by businesses and natural persons. You have also always advocated in this Chamber and in an explanation of the bill's proposal to direct Greece. Greece does not recommend preventing the financing of political parties by businesses and natural persons or independent entrepreneurs, but recommends ensuring the transparency and transparency of the business of political parties, and here I fully agree with Greece. However, I do not agree with this proposal that you completely suspend the financing of political parties in the manner you have allowed, so I will also support all these amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. As my colleague Lisec said in his introduction, you were also warned by the Legal and Legal Service. And let me remind you that it was you who, when you were still the President of the National Assembly, often in this Chamber and on individual committees that always said that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service should be respected. I believe that you are an expert in your field and that the rule that says five lawyers of ten different opinions is true. But, look, now you're punishing those parties who were transparent in their political work. You punish them instead of demanding responsibility on the part of those in charge of overseeing the work of these political parties. This is important. In our country, no one takes responsibility. And we must ensure that those who have cheated come before the hand of justice. The way in which you are proposing, in a way that is respected, a coalition is now proposed, but also in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that you are violating the constitutional right to association, although the Minister does not therefore agree that you are in fact violating the equality of passive electoral rights and are also violating the constitutional right to freedom of expression. Even more, you violate all fundamental human rights. And in the previous item on the agenda of this session, we have been in opposition and, above all, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been exposed several times to disregard the decisions of the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights. This is precisely the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services which gives some indication of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but which you are literally violating by this proposal, which we are considering today. See, also the Legal and Legislative Service has warned you that the prohibition of financing political parties with donations does not stem from the opinion of Greece that it is related to the issue of donations and that you are interfering disproportionately with these rights. According to the Constitutional Court Decision, U-I-372/98, a political party needs sufficient financial resources for its work, as the Constitutional Court has also pointed out. Let me draw your attention to another decision of the Constitutional Court, to which the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed, namely, to the need to draw attention to the decision number U-I-367/96, which specifically stressed the commitment of the State to ensure that political parties have a level playing field in determining candidates, electoral campaigns, state funding and the reimbursement of the costs of the electoral campaign, while, in view of the principle of equal opportunities for regulating the public funding system, it must operate in a neutral manner. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us once again read this opinion very well of the Legal and Legislative Service and the next time you call for the Legal and Legislative Service of the National Assembly to have a right, see here she has put a lot in your face right in this law. That is why I will support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and cannot support your solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, a nice greeting to the Minister and a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In Positive Slovenia, it is clear that we welcome the amendment of the Law on Political Parties, because we believe it is the right time to make order in this area as well, to create conditions and put in place mechanisms through which risk reduction or reduction of these corruption risks will be achieved. It is also right that, on the recommendation of Greece, the recommendation of the European Parliament and, like other countries, we also incorporate all these contents into this law. Our parliamentary group or our party agrees with all the amendments that we have drafted together in the coalition, and we also agree with some other amendments, such as the 20th article by New Slovenia. However, we cannot agree with the amendment to the 7th and all the other articles which are subject to this Article on the proposal of the SDS to amend this Article. It was clear and one of the main purposes of this amendment to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties that it was precisely to separate the economy and the financing of political parties by the economy. It is clear that political parties, their work is financed from the State budget to be financed by membership fees, to be financed by perhaps other things, but the separation of the economy from this funding cycle is essential. I will not talk about unexplained money and briefcases, and also about very vague reports on the work of political parties and also election campaigns, and I will not talk about it, but we know that the National Assembly has also set up investigative commissions dealing with this area, financing free of charge and so on, and would not do so today. History has shown that where there is opportunity, there is also a thief. Every chance he makes a thief. And I'm not talking about one or the other political party right now, but I'm talking about this basic purpose, the intent of this novel law, which is that, as far as possible, all the elements that cause corruption risks are being abolished. And it is true that the coalition has also drafted amendments to this novel, which have been recommended by the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission, which I think is further completing the whole novel and further eliminating and strengthening these safeguards. Look, it is clear that politics and political parties have been financed by the economy. As many times as the economy has given money to political parties, it has also expected so many times from a political party to return, not money, but actions that will correspond to that part of the economy that financed the political party. And after all, this is no exception in our country, because we hear right now that they have the same problems in the European Parliament, the same problems. There are also large corporations that influence decision-making in the European Parliament and so on. It's not the same content, but it's very close. Today it has also been heard in the debates, I am talking about policy and that we have lost the reputation of politicians precisely because of such corruption risks and because of such actions that have taken place in our past. It is then right to advocate today that the amendment of this Law on the Financing of Political Parties will be clear and determined to incorporate elements that will show very, very transparent and clear how political parties are financed, and it is right that there are really no ones in this circle who would promise anything from this funding, that is, companies, legal persons and all those who would finance political parties in order to get something from it at the next moment. Positive Slovenia supports this amendment, also supports all amendments to the coalition, including the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 20, but we cannot support the amendment to Article 7 and all the conditional articles to this Article because that fundamental principle and the fundamental tendency of the amendment of this law would be annulled and eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hochevar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! First of all, it really saddens me that those of us who are first called to properly regulate social relations, to work responsiblely in the country, that some of us have problems of making order in our own kind. In my opinion, the Law on Political Parties will, of course, be able to say that paper conveys everything, that in every system, within every law, there may be abuses. But I am convinced that the law establishes additional mechanisms that will effectively ensure greater transparency and business within political parties. Look, we're the customers who run the country that has an impact on people's lives, so it's only right that every euro that flows must have proof of where someone drives and where money comes from that drives the customer machinery. I will not support the amendment itself to Article 7, because I think that if it was adopted, the law would become partially disabled. Look, when we ban the financing of legal persons, we follow the model that France and Lithuania have. Although I can agree that in some other comparable countries, where this is possible, there is no corruption. But let's take a look at Slovenia for an example. I ask you why, then, in the past, some companies have financed different political parties, on the left and on the right in the middle, if you really want to, if only one economic company has the right to help or support, to finance a certain political option. At the first reading of this law, I read a ten-year-old article from Mladina, which, I think, financed both LDS and Slovenian People's Party and SDS. So that indicates that everything is not there. Then another issue is why we can also get data when some companies were financed by political parties and were then in power, and their business with the country rose rapidly in those years. But these company graphs also exist as they increase their business with the country when one party is in power, and then, let's say, it falls completely to the bottom. You know, this is what shows or suggests that this is untransparent or that we are in an area that is hazy and even though we will not solve all problems with this law, at least we are trying to take a step closer to greater transparency. Not because of the six-year-old recommendations made by Greece, but because it's right. Regardless of whether this will make us more prominent in the public, one of whom you rightly warn, but because it is right. But when some worry that we will have to work or even work, see, if there is a crisis, it is a crisis for everyone, it will be necessary to find out what it is, and it is possible to work more in the parliamentary benches than elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Do you have a replica, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak? Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Madam Member, in much of your debate, I can agree with you, in particular in the need to ensure transparency of business. However, I cannot assure you of the fact that this is actually a violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms. I agree and will always support that political parties should not be financed by companies that are majority owned by the State, but this has nothing to do with private initiative. What you're saying right now is that institutions that should detect corrupt acts don't do this, the rule of law doesn't work. If an undertaking is unduly financed by a political party and if a political party fails to show these funds, I agree that both must also be punished for it. But first, let the supervisory authorities, the judiciary, the institutions, also the anti-corruption commission. I don't know how you haven't defined yourself in your debate right now until the conduct of our former fellow Member, Mr Stepišnik. This is an example of how someone misuses his political function to obtain funds for his private company, and this must be punished. But where are you? You're not loud enough. Because if they were, they would be asking the Prime Minister to resolve Mr Stepišnik right now. It's a double morality, what you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u199	Mrs. Ramshakova, maybe mag. He's not competent to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u200	I can see that you always interfere with the words or the President of the National Assembly when we speak to Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and that it is your fellow Member, unfortunately, or Minister. Look, these are unacceptable behaviors, and let law enforcement authorities detect and prosecute them. I'll always agree with that. And I have always agreed when I have either led an election campaign or led my own electoral campaign to know about every euro I have spent or who has dedicated it to my campaign. And here I'll always give you the right one. But I'm not going to give you the benefit of the doubt if you're going to restrict fundamental human rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Gregor Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u202	Just for reconciliation. This is not an intervention in fundamental rights and freedoms, as no one is restricted to the right to join any political party or to establish it together with others. Here we only prohibit companies from financing political parties to prevent certain services from being demanded. And my colleague Katarina mentioned those graphs that the media often published, and I have to say that I had no intention and I didn't want these graphs to prepare me for this hearing in the National Assembly, because I don't want to point my finger at anyone. It's a poem. But the phenomenon is that, in fact, every exchange of power, there's a group, one list of companies that grow into traffic for once and for all. Once the power is turned around, these companies are downsized, and some other group of companies appear, and their traffic is upriver. In most of these cases, it is likely that those who gave these transactions and those who concluded these transactions on the company's side will say, "Yes, because everything was legal, because they were public contracts and so on, because if anyone had objected, they could have submitted an audit to the State Audit Commission without having submitted it." That's usually how this thing ends. There are no signs of crime in such cases. And these are essentially some kind of legal manipulation. With this law today, we want to prevent such things. We want to prevent companies from investing their money in political parties, so that they can request or expect some services in return. You know, I also had a discussion about this marriage within my own party, like, I think, the others in the coalition. Of course, the National Gazette was also financed by donations. And even the people working for our party weren't thrilled that we're going to lose this opportunity now and that there's not going to be any money. But they agreed with me that the feeling we would have would be significantly better and that it would be worth the money. No one, no company will owe us anything. We haven't been, but now maybe someone feels we owe him, and now he won't be able to.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you. The next debater is mag. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let's try to turn this around a little bit more cheerfully. A while ago, we had received all Members and Members of Parliament's e-mails the difference between democracy and dictatorship. It said: Dictatura means, "Hold Mr....," that I will not say it to the end, because it is not decent, and "democracy means in Slovenia, "what it says, it respects you one way or another." We're in the middle of something, because you can talk, not too long, because if you talk close to the truth, then you're quick to try to keep it down. Well, let's cut to the chase. See, political parties are in fact supposed to bring pluralism into society, different interests, views, democracy in general terms. Corruption is strongly linked to political parties, and Minister Virant is working with this bill to limit it. Let's take a look at a particular case, because at the principal level, we're all in favour. I've had my own fun on the other side. If you go to the Commission's Anti-Corruption Supervisor, find out that all companies, especies, parts are listed there. Descendants operating with a country or state-owned enterprises. Then you come to an interesting conclusion, because I know a lot of people who work with state-owned companies, with ministries, write laws, contracts, and I was wondering how much they deserve. In particular, I can give you names and surnames. They're gone. They're gone, ladies and gentlemen! I have sent the anti-corruption committee the question why they are not there. See what the answer is, about the same as it has been for 20 years: "The Commission agrees that it would also be necessary to review those expenditure which is intended for natural persons, but the current legislation does not allow it at present for the protection of personal data, as regulated by the Personal Data Protection Act. Otherwise, we agree that it would make sense for your proposals to be implemented, but prior to that it is necessary to prepare conditions for technical implementation and legal bases that would not be contrary to the protection of personal data in the case of natural persons." So whenever we really want to set things right, meaningfully, meaningfully, in order to prevent abuse, we come to the point where someone says that this is otherwise arranged in that law, and this solution is contrary to that. I'll tell you something else. You know how elegant we play. Minister Virant, don't you blame me for some case from your client. Janko Jenko, a senior member of the Civil Code, has been trained in two supervisory boards. Do you know how elegantly we avoid each other? Let's just say he's not a member of the party anymore. But he stays on the boards of oversight. You know what a play this is! And that's a solution, as they say sometimes: it's a lie, just like a dog's scythe. You understand. That's how we do it here. It's simple, we say, he's no longer a member of the party. He's basically a party member because he works for a client and he's into it. I'm sorry that in a way, I have to meet Mr. Jank Yank sometimes, say a word, a very good man. But since customers operate according to the principle of criminal associations, of course they need to help their own, so this law is progress, but far from true solutions. Moreover, Giga Šorli calculated, he did one study 20 years ago that a political party needed to come to Parliament – but it took four to put – 50,000 euros per MP. So, a minimum of 200 000 euros has to be collected. He who is unable to do so cannot oppose Parliament. Here is the key to fighting political parties for money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you. Dr. Virant wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u206	Yes, because you mentioned a specific case, I have to comment on it. Some of us can clean up in our customers before our own threshold, as we have already proved many times in the National Gazette. In this particular case, it was that, in fact, Mr Jenko, as a visible member of the party, had achieved that he had been employed in two supervisory boards or specifically in the supervisory board of the Slovenian steel industry, which I was not aware of, but learned from the media. I immediately called him and told him to withdraw from this supervisory council, and he also gave me the word that he would withdraw from the supervisory board of the Slovenian steel industry. When the time came for him to make this move to resign, he decided that the Slovenian steel industry's preferred supervisory council had steel as well as the party in which he had spent so much time, which was sad for many of us who have genuine political intentions, but it is. He is no longer a member of the party, has nothing to do with it and has no contact with the client and has no function and role. I guarantee it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm asking you to report to the debate. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u208	I didn't want to come forward anymore, but given the individual executions of the predecessors, it might be a good idea to take another call. With all due respect for Mrs Katarina, I believe that her intentions are pure, but the fact is that the party from which she comes is new on the political scene and that is probably why there is little lack of this action by political parties. But I was very surprised by Mr Zanoskar's performance as an old political cat, from the mayor to the MP, to hit political parties in such a vehement way. I agree with him. Disengagement of the economy and political parties, yes. But Mr Zanoškar or Mr Minister, do you think that the economy, despite this law, which prohibits the co-financing of political parties by private parties and legal persons, will be less likely to be required by counter-services or pressure. There won't be any. However, they will only be carried out differently or translated. We now had political parties, a legal entity, but now we will have two legal entities, or someone else, who will agree with each other either at the local or national level with a low level of political participation. Example. Before that, the builder wanted to co-finance a political party, like in the local area. Now this will not be allowed and it will be either the party's president or the party's secretary-general, or I don't know who from the party said, "Listen, this is no longer possible, but I have an open account at the printer where we owe him I don't know about the press, give him the bill." And it will be done and we can make any legal mechanism, no one benefits us, because traceability and transparency will be less. That's what we're trying to tell you, but apparently some of you don't understand. I'm not getting into this. For example, the European Member would probably legally have one service, the Slovenian European Member, but because it was disabled, he went under the table to talk. Fortunately, he was caught. If this were allowed, I would have made a public statement that there was something that he wanted to make a deal with him, and all the guys would have been melty if he'd let it happen. But since this was not allowed, the system was not allowed, so he made arrangements under the table. And that's exactly what the deal is gonna be. Member of the European Parliament, I think we all know which Slovenian MEPs are and who have been exposed with the help of hidden cameras. And this will also happen on the political scene in Slovenia. It won't be transparent anymore, it'll be imprudent. Yeah, we have a supervisor where you can see who's working with which client, but at least now we knew. Now, because of these bypasses and circuits, this transparency or traceability will be covered. There will be no more order in the operation of political parties, but there will be more disorder. Your Honor! Practice will show you that the purposes of this law are good, as I said several times before, at least those of the Court of Auditors are good, but, for the first time, the devil is in detail and, secondly, everything that has been revealed will be hidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you, too. Minister, you want a word? Yeah. Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u210	Yes, look, we can't be against a law because we already know that the authorities will not implement it successfully. Wait until you get the auditors of the Court of Auditors, we have the Court of Auditors in very sharp terms. I think they'll be able to make order, everywhere, even in political parties, and see how these things show up. It's hard to imagine how you're going to show that some inn or some volcanoer ordered propaganda material for your election campaign and paid for it and that it wasn't done by a party. See, if it operates through transaction accounts, all such machinations are detected. The tax administration has recently been working in many areas where we have not always dreamed that it can be done or that it has not been the right will: the grey economy, the tax haven. I think more than 10 million have already taxed these fictitious businesses in tax havens. All of this can be covered if the supervisory authorities have support, if the policy gives them clear knowledge that they expect and require order to be made. And the same will be true in this area. We will operate through transaction accounts, no cash, no money bags will be carried around, but we will all have to accept that companies cannot finance customers and we will stick to order. One of the biggest problems of Slovenia is that it is already thought in advance in this way. Oh, how we're going to play the law, how we're going to look for bypasses to stick to the letters of the law, and we're going to get to the same goal after the curves. This way of thinking is what it is today, because this culture is all too present. And if it is present at the very top, yes, hell, then how can we expect entrepreneurs and citizens not to think that way? We shouldn't be thinking about abuse today. The law is what it is. It prohibits financing by companies. Economic companies will not be allowed to finance political parties, no bypasses, no circuits, no tricks.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Excuse me? A replica? Mr. Fox? Who was the first in the replica? Mr. Zanoskar. Mr. Zanoskar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you very much. That's all I'm saying to my colleague, Lisco. Of course, I do not attack political parties, but it is my interest to make this novel so that these mechanisms will be in place so that it will not be possible to play these rules. But the debate that you have is that, before we accept the novel, you are looking for and pointing out the circuits and the points through which political parties could be financed despite the adoption of this novel, but they are, in my opinion, very, very wrong. We have experience from the past. Look, even from state-owned companies, political parties were financed, funded by those directors who bought their headquarters. Here the historian speaks his own, and we must build on the fact that this will no longer happen. It is completely wrong and wrong to think that it will still happen here and here. Then it doesn't make sense that we're doing anything at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u213	Mr. Lisec, you probably have a replica of Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Once again, for the last time in this marriage. Minister, I understand you have a new political client, but I really hope you're not naive. That's exactly what we're trying to tell you. If legal persons and individuals had the option, it would be transparent and clear: political parties, legal entities. Now legal entities will find a way past this law. That's what we're trying to tell you. We don't mean anything by it. We believe that our amendment would be more transparent, but now what you have all said before is how state-owned companies have now been financed, even though they should not have done what one machination has done. Now that you are abolishing, automatically force the legal person, if they want to do anything, I hope, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we are not naive enough to say that we are separating now from this law: politics on the one hand, economy on the other. No, no, no. Everyone's going to go to hideouts even more. That's why we want to help you with this amendment so it doesn't happen. Our purpose is the same as yours, but we believe that the existing law will allow for more and less transparency. That's it. Now for the last time.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u216	I've been on the subject for the last time. I admit that I am probably a little naive sometimes because I believe in playing by the rules and that everyone is playing by the rules and I don't understand this way of thinking. Because companies will not be able to use or go through certain circuits in this law if the parties do not allow them to do so. It is true that the scissors and canvas are in our hands, the leadership of the parties, the secretary-generals, in particular them, the presidents do not deal so much with these operational matters, but we are responsible, we need to put the system in place so that it works. The secretaries-general, executive directors, whatever they call themselves in the parties, will have to ensure that no company appears that would like to finance the customers after the circuits. I don't think we should even think about it. It's over. The law will be adopted, and it will be prohibited for companies to finance customers and peaks. We just have to accept it, and we have to stick to it, and we don't even think about being abused. We can't let anyone abuse that. I hope we agree here, and I'm sure you'll also order your secretary-general in your client that if it's such a law, if it's the order to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you. Now he has the word, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Minister with a co-worker! In opening, when I discuss our amendment to Article 8, I say that Members of the New Slovenia Group are somehow satisfied that political parties are self-restrictive, which means that in recent years we have actually reduced funding for political parties in the state budget. We will never stop this funding, all democratic countries have it, and that is the right thing to do. The democratic political system has its price and must be encouraged. Let me give you two numbers. For this year, the national budget provides around €3.2 million to finance political parties and is already down 22% in the following year. This means around €700,000 less money to finance political parties next year. Of course, we remain, at least the Members of the New Slovenia, concerned that, unfortunately, funds are also being cut for those people who are actually at the edge of Slovenian society. And now specifically for the amendment. We have succeeded in the work of the home body that our amendment has been adopted by the Committee, which extends the circle of lenders for political parties to natural persons. Here we have precisely prescribed the form of a loan contract, we are talking precisely about the data that this loan contract must contain, etc. With this amendment, we are actually still improving this provision by saying that the amount of the loan of an individual natural person should not exceed 10 times the average gross monthly salary per year. Loans given shall not be considered as financing of customers under this law. Why this restriction? Why this ten-folder? Of course, it is normal that these loan contracts, like all others, can change. And this contract can also change in this direction, either in part or in whole donations. This is said to be the case where the creditor, the natural person, simply credits the customer, which means that this automatically means the customer's contribution, and it is logical that this should be limited to a tenfold gross monthly salary per year. Surely we can achieve something by saying that political parties will not be able to finance a legal person. In this area, I have learned quite a bit from the late Finance Minister Dr. Andre Bajuk, whom, frankly, some entrepreneurs came before the elections in 2008 and said they wanted to help the party. You know his character, he turned it all down, and he said, "We're not going to accept it, because he's going to give us the bill." The bill in the broadest sense. That's not an invoice. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we know for ourselves, even the natural persons who will finance the parties can put an account out for the parties. But here, of course, the power and ethics of the individual political party, the leadership of the party, will in fact tell the customer that our mission is a work for the common good. And if it is true for a man to stand and fall on ethics, then politics is a thousand times earlier. Politician stands and falls on ethics. And no law will raise our ratings, nor will it raise the ratings of members of the National Assembly. The ratings will raise, colleagues and colleagues, our actions. These must be transparent, transparent. And in fact, we need to prove by actions that we are working for the common good. Not for the individual, not for the company. For the common good. As for the other solutions that we welcome in New Slovenia, we have also resolved the issue of financing political parties at the level of municipalities at systemic level. So far, this has not been systematically resolved, and the local communities will now be legally obliged to finance political parties. Indeed, I, too, have these concerns expressed by my colleague Tomaž Lisec, if we prohibit something, then it is always a kind of sweet fruit and many after this sweet fruit are interfering. That is why it is necessary, and I also remind the Minister here, that there will be a need for more control in this law, and at least we expect more control in the new Slovenia. It's always like that when you say something, you could have bypasses or some other solution, just to make sure that the law rules are somehow broken. But if that happens, then, ladies and gentlemen, we must also seize in the National Assembly. Even if it is an individual case, for an individual company or for any other public person. And don't mind me, we should seize here to get a clear image, clear answers to what happened to one of the ministers or, more precisely, to a company owned by the state. Perhaps everything is clear, crystal clear by law and so forth, but perhaps it is a question of ethics. And politics stands and falls on ethics. I listened very carefully to Minister Virant when he spoke about our idea once – but we do not own it – we will be happier if it is realized – the so-called extended supervisor. If we do this, it will be another step forward to see who is working with state-owned companies, state institutions and so on. Somewhere I have read the following, which I think is very appropriate for today: "When society finds itself in decadence, in a slow but persistent decomposition, which appears mainly in a continuous vote after the increase in wealth, material wealth and psychophysical enjoyment and in extreme softening and egotism, then there are various financial, capital, employment, wages and other similar injections just a step into further, even greater crisis." This is a content worth considering even when we consider the Political Parties Act. Let me conclude my debate with the truth: politics stands and falls on ethics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u219	Dr. Virant has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u220	Mr Horvat, on this occasion, I would like to thank you and New Slovenia for your good cooperation in this law and also for the support of the law that you will probably give. This proves that we are also able to step together and participate in the good of the country, although we are often on different shores – you interpolators, I am interpelled, but it has nothing to do with it. When it comes to things that need to be done for the country, we will be able to continue to cooperate. There's no problem on my part. As for the extended supervisor, we are invited to listen and discuss on Friday, when we have a paper on access to information of a public nature, where one of the basic innovations is this one. Therefore, the public and access to information should be extended to businesses in the majority direct or indirect public ownership. However, companies with 100 per cent public ownership will also be committed to the so-called pro-active transparency, which, according to the household, means that all their transactions with amounts and recipients will be recorded on a specific online application that will be practically equivalent to the supervisor and will be managed by the Public Payments Authority.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you very much. We have already discussed this law on the committee, in the first reading, and I believe that our amendments are returning the law to some reasonable form, that this move, which you have decided in the coalition, is that by seducing, literally, how good it will be when legal persons are unable to finance political parties, that it is concealment, a mimicry that is not good. The reputation of political parties – as I have heard – you have already discussed – with such proposals and such changes to the law we will not change. In this country, even the reputation of the parties is somehow very subtlely falling further, as it is estimated that if the reputation of the customers collapses, that left is less visible, it gets less than that, because they still experience it as part of the system, these modern spring parties were established after the independence and these customers are only people as classic customers experience it. Therefore, this demolition of the parties is present and I must point out one such unheard of. Last week a well-known European People's Party resolution on the situation in Slovenia was published. This is the farthest of the most credible parties in Europe with the largest number of voters. 73 parties sign under an opinion, all European leaders, and they say to us – the first European Member who wanted to draw attention to himself and I do not blame him for throwing away such an ossuary, has reduced his credibility temporarily when he considers that this association has done the same thing as an information bureau resolution. Then, in a serious newspaper that is supposed to be the Work, a journalist writes in the Saturday annex that the EPP is the same as the Cominterna in its time. Unheard of! Mr. Minister, in fact, I urge you to react to such things because you are a rhetorical minister who is also keeping an eye on it. For do you know what harm Slovenia will suffer from in the international space, because if the European People's Party of Association, such as the Cominterna in its time, we know that Yugoslavia was shaking because it had its resolutions on bayonets and had catastrophic consequences. Now such a resolution would be comparable! And to write directly several times that this is the Cominterna of today, because after this analogy, you will probably agree with everyone, then the dominant person in this association of these customers is Angela Merkel of today Stalin, because in Kominterna it was Stalin's decision. Do not worry that Germany, as the most serious and also the most powerful force, will not go smoothly through such mud and humiliation. Here we lose the reputation of our party, but this is systematically done and this article on how it will not now affect and the links between the economy and those interests when we throw it out of the law. Do we have our citizens as storytellers? Do we think they're fairy tales? You know, as transparent as possible, without restrictions, this should be because that party - for example, I believe that in such a case, if there was no burden, we would force companies or, above all, state-owned companies to give everything transparently, but from the fact that most of these managers in these state-owned companies, for example, would have their heart beat to the left and given them the fat money they are giving to the parties now left in other ways to get revenge in the next elections and thus achieve transparency and balance. No! No! These articles will result in less transparency. More hidden funding, old cats – we know which side there are more – will already be able to do so and we will have more corruption in the country and a worse situation. That's not why I'm here for this kind of deception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u224	If you call it misleading people, we call it making order. Because if a rule is laid down that companies will not be able to finance political parties, then this is the order. If you don't think you'll stick to this order in advance, then speak to yourself, because the others will.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u226	Mr. Secretary, you personally attacked me. I have spoken in general, but I assure you that laws and regulations, even financial transactions and the search for privileges – God beware! No one's ever convicted me in my life, no one's ever done that before. And I can also live transparently, and I'm not looking for shortcuts. If you're saying that I'm going to do this, I'm not the director of a state firm either, and the fact that I had this funding option, it just came out. I know, but I've been in the economy for 20 years, in the company, in the state firm, Kidrichevo, now Talum. The then director – not now the director, but he was the SD candidate in the last elections – issued a special issue of Aluminium, a factory paper where he wrote all the emblems, all the logos to be elected by the workers, he made a large picnic for the whole factory and 5,000 pensioners and President Kučan, and he drank and ate all night. You don't think that's corruption?Oh, my God! On a factory account?Oh, my God! This is still possible. No one was persecuting this at the time, and if we have as unilateral a power or a state of spirit as we now have, there will be more corruption. But if you think I'm gonna be involved in this and break the laws, you're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 11 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. Another procedural proposal, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u228	As for the previous one, we would also suggest that this law should also be dealt with at the same meeting. and if the coalition amendments are to be adopted, two third-reading harmonisation amendments will be required.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on voluntary and re-referendum campaigns within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government and I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Gregor Virant for further explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I'm not taking your time in this marriage because it's a twin. It's a package with a new bill on political parties. The goals are the same, the solutions are very similar, analogous. There is no need to repeat this, so I would rather finish and enjoy the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Jerko Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you, President. I will also cut this report very short myself, given that it is indeed a form of complementary law to the previous one. The Committee discussed this subject at its 1st meeting, below. 11. 2013 The National Assembly has previously held its 17th session of 27. 9. 2013 held a general debate and concluded that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. I would limit myself only to the comments of the Legal and Legal Service. The representative of the ZPS said that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups followed mainly those comments of a technical nature, while constitutional concerns about the provisions prohibiting the financing of electoral and referendum campaigns by private and legal persons did not end. The amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group are, however, going towards resolving those constitutional concerns, but their solution has not been consistently implemented. The representative of the Co-ordination of Non-Parliamentary Parties and Andrej Magajna expressed support for the proposed solutions aimed at preventing corruption in politics and highlighted the issue of unequal media representation, with which non-parliamentary political parties and lists and individual candidates are confronted in election and referendum campaigns. He therefore proposed an amendment to Article 4 of the proposed law, by which media broadcasters who, by law of duty, engage in a campaign or decide freely to engage, should ensure that all campaign organisers have equal conditions for the publication of communications and equality in the presentation of candidates, programmes and opinions. However, we should also ensure an equal amount of time in the presentation time and in the confrontations. The Committee did not adopt its proposals. The debate expressed opposition Members' opposition opposition to the ban on obtaining contributions to the electoral and referendum campaign from legal persons and private parties, since the possibility of abuse should be prevented by increasing transparency and control. However, they welcomed the alignment with the Constitutional Court's decision, which concluded that the 7-day ban on the publication of public opinion polls and surveys was an excessive restriction and excessive interference with the freedom of the media. The reduction of this ban in light of the time of electoral silence will, in their view, have a positive impact on the political space. A coalition member also expressed her concern about restricting campaign funding, as it sends the wrong message that political parties are something corrupt and that those who finance them are automatically subject to the suspicion of corruption. She also drew attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which could have been an excessive measure, but nevertheless announced support for the proposed law. The Committee then adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats, the National Gazette and DeSUS, but did not adopt the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and did not vote on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the 9th Article, which became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you. Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 17th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2013 We are moving to debate on Articles 6 and 9. Here I would like to remind you that the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 6 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 9, and we will discuss them together. So I am putting to the debate Articles 6 and 9 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? Mr. Fox, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you. Very briefly, as has been said by the predecessor; it is a compliment to the previous law. But if we have previously talked about financing political parties for a longer period of time, here we are talking about funding an election and referendum campaign, which usually means, according to our legal provisions 30 days before that day X. At that time, all the activities of both political parties and candidates, as well as other legal entities that have a desire to participate not only in the electoral campaign, but in particular in the referendum campaign, are so much more energetic and therefore it is even more necessary here to follow this note of transparency. I am truly surprised, Minister, that in these two laws, only on the basis of the proposal to finance political parties, as well as the election and referendum campaigns, the Legislative and Legal Service on more than ten sides has pointed out the problems with the constitutional provisions of our constitution. In fact, you did not respond to any of their concerns by going against certain amendments. I think that this is more than 20 articles of the Constitution, which are controversial for the Legislative and Legal Service, and, Minister, if we do not agree on this general work regarding the co-financing of political parties by legal persons and private parties, I believe that Mr Magajna has already pointed out at the meeting of his mother's labour body that, in particular, smaller parties or those who do not have the possibility of being financed by public funds due to legal provisions, i.e. from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, will probably trigger a constitutional assessment of certain articles of both laws. I say that this is likely to be the case, the Law-Legal Service also warns, which is only in this law and in these two articles, in which the SDS party has also made amendments, that this is likely to happen. Although I am coming from the second largest parliamentary party at the moment, and by the number of members probably from the largest party in the country, it is only right that we take care of the smaller parties in some way. On another occasion, I would say that we leave small customers alone, but if this goes on, we will probably have only a larger customer and a satellite, because in the SDS we do not have the support of various Forums 21 and other state, para-national and state-owned enterprises that could finance us. Those who are fortunate enough to cooperate with them will, as Minister, believe me, act even less transparently. I'm telling you, I don't think you're going to be any more lenient in this marriage or in these amendments than you were in your previous marriage, but the Minister, if you don't listen to us, listen to the smaller parties. Really consider whether it is right, at least during this time, that electoral and referendum campaigns for most of the smaller parties take the right to co-financing by legal persons, but of course you also take the right to certain other legal entities to be more active in the field of referendum campaign. Moreover, I personally believe that it is at the time of the electoral referendum that parties at the local or national level are even more subject to this search for services, or some pressure after cooperation, which is expected to bring some benefits after the end of the referendum campaign or after the end of the electoral campaign. I am so much more confident here that when we are full of mouths about how to separate the economy on the one hand and political parties on the other, this resolution will be very small or even more blurred. In short, our purpose with the amendments was good, I really don't want it to sound like we are against transparency now; we are for transparency, but unfortunately, Minister, once again, the practice will be shown by your naivety, or without your naivety, that legal entities will serve these pressures and lobbyist counter-services to a greater extent than they are now, when they have a free way with certain criteria when their name is found in the public, not just a legal person, even a natural person. Can you imagine, Minister, what it's like if someone donates a little more than 50 euros, to give a name, a last name, an emsha and even an address if they're funding political parties? I really wonder who else will want to take part in the electoral campaigns when it comes to those smaller amounts, at least in the area of local self-government and in the area of local elections, who will even want to participate with local parties. And, Minister, I have a feeling that, for you or the parties to this law, as well as for individual elections, more than some kind of artificial maintenance we have in life, instead of dealing with it and giving political parties the tendency they have in developed democracies, and we are returning them to a system of black and white films where only certain countries, as has been said before, have only France and Lithuania, on which you and your fellow Members have so many excuses, have about the same model as you want to introduce, all others have a much more transparent review, but with greater control, which unfortunately we are losing with these provisions of these two laws. In short, although you want more control, transparency will be lower. That's what I guarantee you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you. Dr. Virant has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u236	Well, it's a purely analogic conceptual difference as in the previous law, so we can just repeat our arguments here. For me political parties, they are not a non-essential part of democracy, without democracy, but they must also be subject to some order and some transparency. And I repeat: I believe that political parties will abide by this order and these provisions of the law. If companies want to, they try to push and somehow force their money on the sidelines, if I understand you correctly, they'll just say no. And if that happens, we have the Court of Auditors, we have the Tax Administration, we have other supervisory institutions that will prevent it. Maybe I'm naive, I'd rather say I'm optimistic, I believe that in this country we're going to stick to order and rules more and more in all areas. Since things are changing, just look at the grey economy, a few actions by the Tax Administration, and believe that there is still a change of mind on the ground, among those who, until yesterday, may have considered something purely self-sustaining and normal, that they do not issue accounts, they are now issuing accounts. Today they may still be betrayed because of coercion and fear, but it will slowly pass into culture, as has been the case in Sweden, or Norway, or in some other countries where this culture is at a higher level. This is how we must act in political parties, and I have no doubt, no doubt that none of us in here will doubt that we will already make sure in the parties that we stick to the law. You're just going to squeeze these party collectors of money, the secretary generals or whatever they're called, if they're going to have an appetite for the marriage to go through, and you're not going to let that happen. We have read the warnings of the Law-Legal Services very carefully and if you read them carefully, you see that our Law-Legal Service has acted as often as it does: she has expressed some of her, as I would say, precautionary concerns. Nowhere in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service does it say that anything in this law is unconstitutional, contrary to this or any constitutional article. They say, "The point would be to think about whether or not we should have arranged it differently so that we would not risk a constitutional judgment." Normal. The legal and legal service shall be placed in a conservative position, the one with the most pessimistic scenario, so that the matter may fall before the Constitutional Court. But look, we're taking very little risk here. If, for example, the Constitutional Court – contrary to the opinion of most of us, including lawyers, that this is not unconstitutional – decides that it is, that donations will be returned to legal persons or that legal persons will be able to donate to political parties again. I highly doubt that will happen, but they will. Now compare this with the legal violations for which the citizens of this country pay a lot of money because they have judged the courts after a few years or 20 years. Compare this story deleted, how much it will cost us, because it went to some legal risk or some legal error, how much the story with the annex to the 2010 collective agreement will cost us, and so on. Those are the risks. Well, anyway, people with names and surnames, who made these wrong decisions, made the wrong decisions. There's no big risk here. The most that can happen to us is that the right to funding by legal persons will be returned to law; but I very, very much doubt. I doubt the Constitutional Court will decide that. I'll say it again. Then the law is unconstitutional today, since the law already has restrictions on natural and legal persons. They can't just fund political parties indefinitely. Thus, if limitations are inherently unconstitutional, there is something seriously wrong with the law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you. I think there was still an interest in the debate. I invite you to report for discussion. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Personally, I believe that the solutions that are in the new Law on Elections and Referendum Campaigns will not make any progress. I'm pretty sure they're almost going to cause less transparency. That's why we tabled amendments and at least keep a decent marriage. I don't know who was the godfather here with such solutions, these solutions actually have bypasses and they'll be much more useful to you. I must say, in this law, it is positive that you have changed when public polls can be published. This was again one of our ideas, Slovenian, that we will not know how to influence it, because now after the new two days before, these public agencies will less risk knowingly falsifying the results and demonstrating that the winner will be the winner as it happened in 2004, when they already knew that our client is in favour, but they have published different results, and then they say that it will change a lot in one week. [[…]] Now that excuse is going to go away. There's something else that can change on the last day, but it won't change. Mr Minister, I am sorry that you did not want to react – in the past and present – to the fact that I have warned us about how the parties, electoral campaigns and all this are being compromised. In fact, if someone is allowed by the public media to declare three parties to this House to belong to an association comparable to the criminal organisation of the Cominterna, I think an alarm must be issued in the country, because it is unheard of. And it's not Angela Merkel today's Stalin of Europe. It's not! Although he is the strongest person in this association. Absolutely. Talk to the German ambassador and tell him in his eyes. What's he gonna say? Our ratings will be worse on all markets based on this, and I don't know what it is. Then you mentioned good examples of preventing the grey economy in this connection. I hope that these measures work and are necessary, absolutely, I just have to tell you that for me the worst gray economy that has happened in the last week is the way the state has committed itself: under the table, intransparency, in secrecy, in conspiracy. It is said that huge commissions were made by those who brokered the business. Huge commissions. And that's corruption. Huge commissions, I hear. If this information that crawls into the public is accurate, it is horrifying. This is worse than any grey economy. These solutions, which are in marriage, are by no means preventing such cases as I mentioned before, but that was also, I remember when I was in the TGA association, then it broke down on Talum and Silk, when this huge picnic was made before the presidential elections, when the fight was between Pučnik and Pučnik. A factory with 2,000 200 employees, and I don't know how many thousands of pensioners -- it was all for free, it was flowing as much as you want. To this end, we opened a green halada, 40 hectares of landfill, where the director of Rob’s son now made electric electrovoltaics, thermovoltaics – and it was then possible to influence those people. A special paper, two editions, in the second, this candidate of yours in the last election, and a member of Forum 21 has made a catastrophic mistake. In that special Aluminium, he put President Kučan, who opened this green halada, in the great title of President Kučan in a landfill of red mud. It was really a red mud dump, but the symbolism was a little bit like that. Probably Kučan wasn't grateful for that painting written by President Kučan on the landfill of red mud. But there was so much money thrown into the campaign — surely no one acted on duty and nothing. And this is how you abuse the campaign! As long as the state is like this, it will happen. You have literally foreseen this in the coalition, because you have cut drastically in the criminal service money budget for the NPU, so that it will no longer deal with economic crime, with such associations that are thus stealing the country. You have already predicted this in advance, that as long as they work for the benefit of this coalition or for the benefit of the left, it will all be legal. And we're supposed to fill that red mud dump once and lock it up forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you. The word has magic. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek. I don't think she's in the hall. Let's move on. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like both laws to express my support to them by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Under the previous law, we will support the coalition amendment. Only the amendments of the SDS Group have been tabled to this Act. Since the law by adopting the coalition amendments on the Committee's hearing has taken the form that the parliamentary group agrees with, it is perfectly understandable that I will not support the amendments to this law, more specifically to Article 6. Before I go any further to these amendments, I would like to call on Mr Jerovsk to carry out, as a responsible citizen, the act that each of us is obliged to do, if he knows about the corrupt act, he is obliged to report it. Instead of just having fun with the things he's explaining to us, it would be good if he did what he had to do. However, if he has not done so or if he has no evidence to do so, he should be aware that the word is a public word in Parliament and that the speaker is responsible for the public word. So much for that. But I'm surprised at the treatment of this marriage. When Mr Lisec discussed the amendment to this article, he discussed a matter which was, in fact, linked to the basis of political functioning. The proposals that Mr Lisec is talking about and the amendments to this article are supported by a sub-theme that this law will not bring greater transparency. I'm thinking the other way around. If it remains the way it was, and we are not satisfied with this and also with international organisations that have reviewed the political functioning or functioning of political parties, referendum and electoral legislation, then we deny in fact that anything can be done further because we say it already at the start, because it will not lead to better results. That's one thing. Of course, if we start off on the basis that we're all lollipops and that the lollipops are more loyal than the honest ones, then it really doesn't make sense to change anything. And there's something else that surprises me. In dealing with these laws, we have proposed solutions that would be more helpful to small parties. Indeed, this legislation on political parties and on electoral and referendum campaigns can be tackled by two perspectives; the amount of funds available can be recovered and the amount of public funds can be returned to the parties from the budget. Interestingly, the party that advocates the most constitutional change in the direction of the majority system, but the majority system is more favoured by the smaller number of parties and the larger parties, is now showing itself in a completely different light under this legislation. Of course, some amendments to electoral legislation would be even more pleased, for example, when the French model was mentioned to follow the French model in our electoral legislation, even in order to reward the party that brings more representatives to Parliament or to local self-government from public funds, but should say representatives of the less representative sex. That's what they say. In this case, we know we're talking about women. This is certainly one of the possible solutions that is one step further from what our electoral legislation already has to provide candidate quotas. However, the quotas for candidateing have not yet provided for a truly parity democracy that would allow for gender parity. I am very interested in what the result will be in the next parliamentary elections if they have more success in the elections of the new party, who will not know their power in individual environments and will have to decide where to run for the prescribed percentage of women, that is now 40% under the law, and where they will give men the opportunity. I leave open whether an amendment to the law will be adopted to abolish the electoral borders. I'm leaving this aside. I am speaking from the point of view of the legislation in force, the one we now have, and by which we will most likely vote next year if early elections take place. Some things are absurd, they are absurd, because we also met with representatives of Greek political parties last year, not all the parties were there, and I think that this electoral legislation gets my support just because the findings of Greece and Ousse and some others went in this direction that something needs to be changed. I do what the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes in the 6th Amendment, where the old text is in some way returning or canceling to the one where the restrictions are clearly defined, I cannot support this amendment and I cannot then support the amendment to Article 9. I am not saying that my scepticism for some of the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service has been completely eliminated, but I hope that what Minister Virant says will happen, that even if the Constitutional Court attaches its opinion to the Legal and Legislative Service, this financial impact on the State will not, as it has for the public finances, be it the result of any other decision taken last year or earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Now I can bring together the debate and the replica to my colleague Potrati. On this occasion, I am grateful that my colleague points out that the crimes of economic crime must be reported and reported. I can say that I resisted that director's decisions twice, against wild property, and then, for the third time, they put me from the technical director to a technological surplus. They said, "Jerovska can't be bought, you have to get him out, and he was always clean for you, and for Forum 21, he was a candidate in previous elections. Here, too, I used to be in this room when Minister Dragonja was the Minister of Economy when I noticed that he was from a conjuncture – which was extremely strong in 1990 or 1989, and then after the new investment we sold 150 000 tonnes of aluminium when the price rose by a thousand 500 dollars, but the dollar was the same as the euro, and I thought that the new investment that was paid was only one tranche of credit; that is to say, when I arrived in 1996, I was in the National Assembly, I saw when we had a public debt, that only one tranche of credit was paid; the other went to public debt. Here I was asking where that money went, then they said these gentlemen bought some shares in Australia and so on. The minister invited me for coffee, said, "This director is too strong, I don't hope." It was a reaction. However, the Public Prosecutor should react to this, but he has not reacted and is still not responding to the public prosecutors today for any matter under official responsibility when it comes to dedicated people, as an option. That's how my friend Potts was. I didn't have any fun when I was talking about how to play the campaign. What happened at those elections was tragic to me. I didn't see the title of Kučan on the red mud dump of that newspaper that was used for the campaign, the crime. I don't know, it wasn't a crime to report it. If we hadn't made such a sophisticated campaign, President Kučan would probably have sued the director that he had mutilated him, that he had placed him on the red mud, although there is a red beef in Kidrichev and there is two million of it there today. By mistaking me, I've done my job. But I have not experienced from your kind to oppose such campaigns. I didn't know you at the time, Mrs. Potrata, maybe you were at that picnic for the broad folk crowds on the party line. Maybe. So I say that the campaign in this country is unfortunately being abused in every way possible. The event was a big business victory, so they said, when this robe actually left, it covered itself with a layer of land and came to an emergency greening and no longer caused disturbances in the surrounding area. Which was the legal reason that the factory was able to celebrate a great deal, but it was used for the campaign. This is what those who are hollistically aware of, we know, but only in our own judiciary would they ever sanction. It has also been skillfully created and I recognize that this option has its place in companies, in state companies, in people and in the moment you replace the others. Look, at these driving exams. Who had these concessions and knew nothing happened?Oh, my God! And there, I don't know, even one for computer science, for the Internet, you immediately switch to lower levels so that what you do in the background can be done without control. You're taking the country in a negative direction and this debt, as we've seen it now, is the worst thing, the worst gray economy; the strong commissions of high interest are in the hands of Minister Chufar. Well, Mrs. Bratusek, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u243	Thank you. The replica has a mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek, because I didn't think you'd avoid the opportunity I don't know how many times you're going to tell your employment experience, but you're going to take things away so you can at least tell me twice about the red mud. But my warning that the suspicions of corruption should be reported went to what you're now done with. You have repeated twice that a fat commission has been paid in respect of the debt. And that's what I'm thinking. I don't mean what ever happened so many years ago. At the time we had neither the anti-corruption commission nor anything else, we now have the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Standards for monitoring, reporting and control of certain acts have risen substantially; and this is what this is all about. And you know exactly what I'm talking about. And if you know – you know that because you know the people who told you about it – and you are selling it as a fact, then at least what I expect from you as an informed citizen is that you will take the steps that are needed. For the anti-corruption commission also accepts anonymous applications if you now say you will be an MP with your immunity if you notify a corrupt act. But perhaps the problem is that you can't put one institution into nothing once, and the other is to refer to the functioning of that institution. There's a problem! I think it's irresponsible to do that when just like any event you don't agree with, you have a comment on it, which has already turned into a crime without doing anything for it, as you say, if you know it. I remind you of this, not what happened to you, I don't know how many years ago, before you were an MP, and what happened on some pre-election campaign. but you are – go watch a magnetogram, and you probably don't have to look at it – you are aware of this, you have commented on the latest action of Minister Cuffer regarding the debt and you have talked about the shamelessly high fees or you don't know what kind of high fees. And that's what you should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor. You have the floor, Mrs Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you, Madam President. I must say that I will support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, before I give further explanation, I hope that you will allow me to conclude the idea that the Minister spoke earlier about the fact that the Law-Legal Service cannot say whether a law or some proposal is in accordance with the Constitution or not. This is understandable because the Constitutional Court is carrying out a constitutional assessment. I hope Minister Virant is listening to this debate, so that he does not think that Members and Members do not have some knowledge of the law, even though we are not lawyers. Otherwise, I will not limit myself to the electoral campaign in my position, but mainly to the referendum campaign and why I will support our amendments to the bill. From this point of view, because I believe that those who are organisers of the referendum campaign are not always the same before the law. Thus, if we allow a natural person or an interested legal person who is a private law to organise a referendum campaign while not being able to finance this campaign from his own resources, in my personal opinion this restriction on their rights and fundamental human rights and freedoms and, of course, freedom of expression in particular. This is why we have tabled the proposed amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this way. The Law-Legal Service also reminds you in this case of these inconsistencies and that it is likely that there will be a constitutional judgement; but you know, a constitutional judgement is always an assessment of whether a law is in accordance with the Constitution, whether it has financial consequences or not. It is precisely because we are aware that it is always necessary to judge from this point of view whether a constitutional assessment can then be given, that we should draw attention to some things that we do not find acceptable in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here we do not give a large number of people or entities the possibility that when the National Assembly adopts a law that violates their constitutional or fundamental human rights, they may organise a referendum or election campaign but cannot finance this campaign. But they have an express interest in launching a referendum campaign and with the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we return this opportunity so that you can also give this opportunity to non-profit organisations. [[…]] Does that seem right to you? Not to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jerovšek? No, no, no. I find that no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law on the registration of rights within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Is it possible to provide a further explanation of the bill by any of the government's representatives? Yeah. Just a minute. Who do I give my word to? Mr. Bojan Trnovšek, you are not among those mentioned for the Government's position. We continue the debate. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. I give the floor to President Jerk Čehovin for the presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go. The Minister will join the debate later [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you for saying that for the fourth time. The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, as a parent working body, considered the draft law on registering electoral rights at its 16th session, on 6 November 2013. The Committee was also briefed on the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana, on the opinion of the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality, on the opinion of the Pomurian Hungarian Self-Governmental Community, on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, on the report of the Commission on National Communities, on the opinion of the Commission of the National Council of State, on the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors to Articles 4, 7, 13, 14, 16, 17, 22, 23, 28, 29, 31, 36, 38 and 44, and on the amendment of the delegation of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities to Article 12. On the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at its 17th regular meeting, the National Assembly held a general discussion on the proposal for a law and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. The representative of the proposer, the Minister of the Interior, said that the proposal was of a technical nature law that primarily brought the European Union's directives into line with the electoral right to vote in the European Parliament. In addition, it brings a series of rationalisations and simplifications in keeping the register of electoral rights, by combining the various records into a single register of electoral rights. The Novela also establishes an addition to the added electoral rights of citizens of Italian or Hungarian national communities and members of the Roma community. This special electoral right has so far been recorded by electoral directories drawn up for each election separately, and the novel foresees that it will be recorded in the register of electoral rights, which is much easier. In addition, the bill removes the decommissioning of classical electoral directories and nevertheless allows the individual electorate to look at the records or records. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said in her presentation of the written opinion that they had taken into account in the drafting of the opinion that the proposed law was a technical or implementing regulation of individual system-wide electoral laws. In doing so, they relied on the theoretical starting points based on the legal field of the national regime of the Republic of Slovenia and the legal regime of the electoral system. In line with the above-mentioned points, the register of electoral rights does not have any substantive impact on the electoral right alone, but merely allows proof of that right. Regarding the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, she said that some of their comments were taken into account, particularly those of a nomotechnic nature related to greater clarity and determination of the legal text. In particular, it drew attention to two comments on the amendments to Articles 17 and 64, which were later taken into account with the amendment of the Committee. In a presentation of the Commission's written opinion on the national community, Member Roberto Battelli said that it did not seem reasonable to him that members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities should base their Community membership by sending a declaration of membership to the Commission for National Communities. In his view, this has an anti-discrimination effect on the exercise of the rights that these persons have. To remedy this, the Group tabled an amendment to Article 12, which eliminates this discrimination. In the debate, members of the opposition pointed out that the amendments did not take into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. In particular, they drew attention to the opinion of the PSC that the delivery of electoral material to citizens and citizens living abroad should be regulated in the Electoral Law, namely in the system law and not in the technical law. In addition, they objected to pursuing the objective of the economy of the elections. In their view, the aim should be to ensure that all citizens, both those living in the Republic of Slovenia and those living abroad, enjoy passive electoral rights to the greatest extent possible. Moreover, in their view, there is a lack of regulation on informing citizens of the exit from the electoral directory. The question was also raised as to what actual numbers were successfully delivered by the delivery of the electoral material and then the ballots returned. Members of the coalition said they supported the bill because it was a novelty for coordination with the European Directive and a number of simplifications. Mr Virant, Minister of the Interior, said in response to the PSC's opinion on the sending of electoral material, that the matter was essentially regulated in the Elections Act of the National Assembly, but the provision on the service of materials was not in his opinion an infringement of the electoral system. Regarding the number of votes sent abroad, he said that about 10% of the 60,000 votes were returned. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 4, 7, 13, 14, 17, 22, 23, 26, 28, 29, 31, 36, 38 and 64. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group. The Committee also adopted the following amendments: amendment to article 12, amendment to article 17, amendment to article 44. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you, too. Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 17th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled. 11. 2013 I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? I invite you to report. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this amendment. In fact, in this amendment I see an attempt to get rid of our minorities in Argentina, Australia and Canada in the long term, that part of our diaspora, as we call it, which is attached to traditional values. Of course, they sometimes find that the electoral material is too late to be returned, and they will now be deleted from the electoral directory. It is not said, however, that they do not intend to be reactivated at some point in some elections. This way, deleting these people from the electoral directory is unacceptable to me. Of course, you are well aware that in Serbia and elsewhere where there is a different, a newer minority from the former Yugoslavia to vote left, and you are thinking of obtaining decisive votes to wipe some of them and others will be present. It is also an unfortunate message to our minority, an unheard-of message from our minority, that they are already being wiped out in their homeland, even though they have preserved Slovenian language, devotion, patriotism for three or four generations, and are now no longer desirable. Look, we're changing these electoral laws, but it never goes in such a way that you actually have the opportunity to express your electoral will in an easy way. I am not an expert on this, but if the Croats succeed, and if other nations succeed, they have such an electoral law and such rules, why not even in Slovenia can work and succeed. There's no political will! Now this step of deleting these people from the electoral registers is an additional message of how appreciated this minority of ours, which at the time was our ambassador, who has done enormously for Slovenia to convince the world public opinion, has helped in every way possible, and now we tell them: you have done your job, you are no longer interesting, and I will slowly delete you from the electoral directory as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you. Dr. Virant has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u252	When I imagine, for example, if someone is watching the transmission of this session now, and heard Mr Jerovsk, they should be appalled at what they might do to you. Apparently, the government has decided to delete our people, citizens abroad, from the electoral directory to take away their electoral rights and so on. I wouldn't even answer if there wasn't actually a danger that people who don't know and look at this and fall for this kind of crap. Why is this marriage really going on? Among other things, this amendment. It is that years ago, the Law on Elections in the National Assembly decreed that Slovenia, i.e. Slovenian electoral authorities, must make it necessary for all Slovenian citizens who have permanent residence abroad, that is to say our emigrants – and they are not only in Argentina, they are also in Germany, there are many in Croatia, there are many in Serbia, there are many in Macedonia, Australia, France, and there are still many in the world, and there are some more than 60 000, all of whom have electoral rights – to send electoral material to everyone, which sometimes was not. Sometimes they had to report in advance if they wanted to vote in the post office and then received the electoral material by mail, they said a voicemail, an electoral card that they could vote, and together with a confirmed electoral card they sent it back by mail. Then the law was changed that now more than 60,000 people, whether they vote or not, are automatically sent by post office and electoral card. And all that changes this law is that in cases where a specific title twice in a row is returned in two successive elections – the right addressee is not taken over, is not known, he may have already died, we do not know – but we do not send in empty, then at the next election of this shipment does not mean that we have taken the right to vote because this person has the same opportunity as before to report that he wants to receive by mail, that he is voting in our diplomatic consular office abroad or that he is voting in Slovenia if he is physically present on election day. That's all this is about. I don't know if Slovenia has enough money to spend it three times in a row to someone who's obviously not at the address that maybe the deceased who doesn't pick up the shipment can't be served in short to keep sending it to that address. That's all this is about and nothing else. The data is, by the way, like for the first round, the last round of the elections I see, the first round of the presidential elections in 2012 entered 63 thousand 106 voters on special electoral directories, they were voted in the first round of the presidential elections 7 thousand 173, which is said to be slightly above 10%, in the second round 3 thousand 264, says approximately 5% of all those we send to them. And we're still going to send a huge number of people, and only a small fraction of them are actually going to vote. All we want to do is that those shipments that come back twice in order to stop sending ballots and electoral cards by mail, and none of them will therefore be deleted from the electoral directory or from the electoral law register, will continue to have normal electoral rights, only by post will they not get the material. Practice shows that around 7,000 300 titles of individuals abroad do not reflect the actual situation, of course Slovenia cannot control the movement of its citizens abroad because it does not have those powers. In the territory of Slovenia, everyone is obliged to sign off, to register a permanent residence, but when a Slovenian citizen goes abroad, he has no obligation to tell the country. But if he wants the state to know what address he's staying at, that he's going to be sending him these electoral cases, he can report it at any time. It is said that the arrangement is extremely friendly, very friendly to our citizens abroad, and by no means has there been any wish or minimum possibility of losing the right to vote or having less opportunity to exercise the right to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you. This is about the question of what citizenship means. To anyone who has citizenship, the State is obliged to allow all conditions that all rights arising from citizenship are also exercised in an easy way, in an equivalent manner, we must be equal before the law. We all know that with the justice system we have, it's a long way off, but the goal should be. Legislation must already be drafted in such a way as to achieve this objective. It is a question of proportionality of the measure, if one no longer receives or notifies, not material, not anything, that means that it is practically excluded from the system, can somehow reenter it, this is essentially what the minister has said now that he can reapply and then intervene to it, but if he does not know that something is going on in the country of origin, then it will probably be difficult to do so. What opens up this question is how much the state of Slovenia actually cares about its citizens and citizens abroad, how much it keeps their records, how much it maintains contact with them or strengthens them. How concerned they are that these people remain connected to their homeland. And from all these aspects of great importance, this article, mildly put, is questionable, as proposed, because, as it is said, if you once remove someone from the system, there is certainly a cut-off of the last bond that at least periodically binds a person to the country when the elections are being prepared. Of course, the fact that some have died or something like that and that we do not have these records raises questions as to what this country is doing after its diplomatic, consular representations with all the mechanisms available to them, that these records are not even roughly regulated, as this clearly follows from these words. We're going to point out one very interesting thing, and I'm not going to say fun, but tragic symbolism this day. This morning you had all your mouthfuls of tragedy so-called erased. Here it is possible to draw quite a parallel, it was said that for some we do not have records, and we will exclude them from the system. Do you know that most of these people have also been sent those decisions, in such and other forms, to some even the recommended calls in advance on some administrative units, and then the subsequent notification that the transfer was made to return? And you know that later, I think that at the time, the current Minister of State, the large number of these people were specially provided with materials, mails with calls for this to be arranged and so on, and that if I am not mistaken, 47 of these emails from addresses in Slovenia, not around the world, from addresses in Slovenia came back – watch out, not because those people would never have been there, but because that address never existed? That's interesting information, because there was never that street there, never that object there, that address never existed. So much for that big delete. In this case, we are talking about Slovenian citizens and citizens and about a country that is obliged to provide me with conditions to exercise one of their fundamental rights – the right to vote and be loved is certainly one of the fundamental links between the state and its citizen or state and electorate or electorate. This simple withdrawal may be the cheapest, fastest option, but it is certainly not the best. That is why we propose that this solution should not go into place and that this record should be arranged differently and that it should find another mechanism that will allow this relationship to not be terminated and, on the other hand, to strengthen the participation of the State of Slovenia with all citizens and citizens around the world and to enable them to effectively exercise their rights. In fact, if we read the Slovenian Constitution, it would be clear to everyone that the right deriving from the Constitution is also the right to lead and be loved, which is linked to citizenship, to the right to vote, so we are talking about it, independent of where this person is. Everywhere in the world, the country must give it an opportunity, but so that it is realistically available, that it can learn about it, that it can realize it, that it also actually realizes its right. And that's the only reason this is the case. If you accept our amendment, it will buy us time to weigh this solution and to find another, better mechanism, that through proper recording arrangements and later some other mechanism things rationalize, that no one is expelled from the system in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I invite you to report. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The comparison with the 1st item of today’s agenda is indeed unfortunate in this case, because when we talked about deleted, they were excluded from the permanent population register. Here, however, the register of citizens who have the right to vote is reserved. No one can write them out of the register, delete them without an appropriate document. Reports from the State Election Commission can also detect such cases when the spouse, for example, credits the electoral card with his spouse’s death. That's not enough. There must be an official document whereby the State Election Commission can record this in the electoral directory and will no longer consider such a deceased citizen among potential voters. The same can be true if a person on a return electoral card writes that he no longer wants to receive material. That's not enough. I want to say, it is not comparable, because here the formal reasons for withdrawing from the electoral directory without the documents necessary for this to be taken into account by the State Election Commission, cannot happen without this withdrawal of the individual from the electoral registers. But there is another option to be pointed out. You certainly know these options, what happens if an electorate or an electorate wants to vote prematurely or if he wants to vote by post. This must be reported in Slovenia and this must be recorded in order for this to be carried out. In this case, our citizen must also do what is necessary to enable him to exercise his constitutional right. It is not, once again, about restricting electoral rights, but it is only a matter of exercising electoral rights, where we can also count on someone not either wanting to vote because he does not see a potential candidate vote for him, or whether there are other reasons for him not to do so. That is why I am warning once again: we are not talking about intervention in the electoral directory, we are talking only about sending electoral material which is diminishing if we sign the electoral directory twice in a row – this is to be found and seen as being found, because, finally, when we go to vote, we sign the electoral directory, that we have voted and that is a sign that we have consumed this constitutional right. Here is returned or unreturned electoral material that proves whether someone has exercised his right or not. And please do not deceive people that this issue, which we are currently discussing, has any connection with the law that we have discussed at the 1st item of the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. Members of New Slovenia, Christian Democrats, we will support this amendment because we believe that this limitation of the number 2 is too strict because we know that in other countries, mail is not as well arranged as it is fortunately in Slovenia, and this also leads to mistakes. So I think it's actually about restricting electoral law if we say that when the second mail comes back, we won't be sending any more. That number seems absolutely too low to me. If it comes back from year to year, I understand that it is no longer meaningful to send, otherwise it seems to me that this is a harsh measure. So that I don't get served again, what I did at the time that I was the Minister for Slovenians herself, in place and around the world, I can say that I had already convened a coordination meeting at that time, where we were really discussing how to improve mail in a more timely manner; this is, of course, one problem and another is the return of shipments, because the address is not the right one. At that time, somehow in this direction, we concluded, as far as I recall, that we will strengthen information through both the Office and the press and the societies with which the Office for Slovenians is in contact, as well as through the DKP, which also have some records that know Slovenians living around the world. This role of additional information, it seems very important to me, of course also to citizens who change their permanent residence, are obliged to report this, so that error is also in those people who have not communicated the change of address. Of course, Slovenia, if it wants to be friendly to its citizens abroad, must also do everything in its power to improve its data, records, addresses of its citizens. I will support this amendment, as I said, because this number is too low.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u260	Thank you, Madam President. I will certainly support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in particular from this point of view, because, as on the Committee today, we stress that the solution you are proposing is disproportionate and inappropriate, since you are restricting both active and passive electoral rights to our citizens and citizens living outside our country's borders. You know that we have already pointed out on the committee itself that everyone has no opportunity to communicate with the country and that they can arrange this residence. Despite the fact that some of the debaters before me are saying that when someone who has been tried to serve twice at an address abroad and then returned this post office and will be noted as a failure of service, this will not affect his electoral right – I say it will. In fact, if you read the third paragraph of Article 4 in its entirety, it can be clear to you that the first time this law enters into force, this will have consequences not only for those, but also for the next elections. But look. This third paragraph shall read as follows: "Only the electoral details for which all the complete information referred to in paragraph 1 to 11 of this Article has been used for the publication of the number of electoral beneficiaries, the composition of electoral registers and the issuance of electoral cards shall be used, and for which the failure of service referred to in paragraph 1 to 11 of this Article has not been recorded in the same address abroad twice in a sequence of failures referred to in paragraph 15 of this Article." And this is exactly what we want to correct in the Slovenian Democratic Party at the next election and here I refer to what has been said to be the same as in the so-called deleted, that the electoral beneficiary will not be informed by letter or by decision of the administrative authority or administrative unit, that he is drawn from the electoral directory and that he himself must have this concern that it will be [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you. Dr. Virant has the word. First, Mr. Horvath, then you get the word. Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u262	Thank you. Make sure there's nothing to worry about. For all those large majority who receive the shipment normally, it is over 50,000, nothing changes, and they each have the option to choose whether to vote or not – and most of them decide not to vote, a large majority – whether they vote by post, or whether they go to the diplomatic-consular representation of Slovenia, or if they are voting in Slovenia on the day of the vote, they vote here. For those who are obviously unsuccessfully trying to deliver shipments for various reasons — that mail may not work, that they may be deceased, that they may have moved, that they may not want to pick it up — after two failed attempts it stops, which is extremely logical and rational to do so. These voters still have exactly the same options: they can vote at the diplomatic-consular office, which only checks – and they can do so immediately, in a moment – whether the person in the electoral register is in the electoral register, all citizens are in the electoral records, nothing affects whether we are not sending him the post office, whether he will come to Slovenia to vote, or if he wants to start sending him the post office, he will notify the Ministry or the administrative unit that he wants to receive the electoral material at this and that address. It is indeed a minimal change, a purely logical rationalization in cases where shipments are returned twice in a row. I don't think anyone here will, after twice listening to someone send something to an address, insist, and for the third time try the same address. No one would do that with their money, but this is a large number, a relatively large number, and it is state money, and this needs to be done rationally and economically.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u264	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this SDS amendment to Article 4. At least in some way, the amendment tries to make the state's relationship to one fifth of the Slovenian national body that lives outside the borders at least a little more friendly. Yes, because it is true, this does not have a whole fifth of the Slovenian national body, living outside the borders of Slovenia, electoral rights, in spite of everything. When we talk about electoral records – yes, a new data is introduced. This information is a counter to the failure of the electoral service and when this counter reaches number 2, then the electoral cards are no longer sent. This number two, I believe, is not good, is too low. You simulate, try to be an electorate somewhere in America, in Canada, anywhere and given that the elections are relatively common, it may happen that some electorate is at the time of the two elections in the hospital. So he doesn't get election tickets. When the third election comes, he won't know why he didn't get the election card. He does not follow legislation as closely as the Members of the National Assembly. When he realizes what's going on, it's the fourth or fifth elections. If we simulate it, that's how it's gonna go. Of course, it makes sense to me to ask the question, what about at home, because some of our citizens, many of them living here in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, do not regularly go to the polls. Or are we sanctioning them as well now, because this is in some way a sanction for these electoral beneficiaries who live outside the Republic of Slovenia. And of course – rationalisation, costs and so on. I agree that costs should be taken care of, but since yesterday I am also trying to be a little more optimistic, as the Prime Minister of the Government here also said that Slovenia is among the five most successful countries in Europe. Just now that we are among the five most successful, do this rationalisation – Mr. Minister, please! I would only ask that we support this amendment and that in some way we treat the electorate who live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u266	When there is some kind of misunderstanding, it must be explained immediately. This is not about not sending to those who do not vote. Because they are huge and will be sent on, even abroad. I said, of the more than 60,000 citizens residing abroad in the presidential elections in the first round, they were voted in just over 6,000, in the second in just over 3,000. This does not mean that we will stop sending material to everyone else by mail, although sometimes, a few years ago, it was not automatically sent, but everyone had to tell them separately if he wanted to get it by mail if he wanted to vote by mail abroad. It's different now. But only those who fail to receive the shipment will cease to receive it twice in a row; not that they do not vote, it has nothing to do with it, but that it fails to heat it twice. The President of the Government is not here today, so he can't replicate you, but you've also falsified her statement a little bit. She said that, with regard to the European Commission's assessments of our Slovenian budget and the measures related to it, we are in a group of countries, together with France and the Netherlands, in the second best group of countries, with regard to the assessment of the quality of our budget in the spirit of the standards of the Stability Pact. That's all she said. Germany and Estonia are in the first group, and then we are in the second group with France and the Netherlands. That's not what the President of the Government invented. That's what the European Commission wrote down and sent us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I also see a desire to discuss the amendment tabled. I'm opening the application. Three or two panellists and one panellist have been reported. The first one has the word "magic." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u268	It's a good thing we're being specific about this. When we talk about how friendly the country is to its citizens who do not have a permanent residence here, and as much as not, I would remind you that Article 4 of this Law, however, must be read in conjunction with Article 17. If you read Article 17, in Article 17, the solution is also for what Mrs Novak said, which seems to be the number two too low. Because of this indication that the consignment was not served twice, it may react. Look. The last paragraph of Article 17 reads: "The Lover may at any time, at the diplomatic office or consulate of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, the administrative unit, the Ministry or the State Election Commission, require the deletion of the data referred to in Article 4, paragraph 15, of this Act. This paragraph of paragraph 2 of Article 4 states: "Failure of hand-delivered electoral cards sent by mail abroad." So an individual who has been engaged twice or only once failed may ask all of these authorities that I have listed to erase this information; and it will start counting on a new one — if we want to. Either not, or it will never happen, that we should record this information. I think that he has protected enough for this, and it is such a bad feeling that the country does not behave sensitively enough towards citizens outside the borders of Slovenia, perhaps this feeling is a little excessive when we talk about these things. But there is something else I would like to point out that I believe that where the physical delivery of mail is worse, there are among our fellow citizens, there are certainly other communication routes between people that enable mutual communication. I'm going to mention Australia alone. Everyone probably knows how to learn by electronic means. So that the possibilities for mutual information, awareness-raising and ultimately I see the sense that, at legal level, we have such a high-ranking position of minister or minister for Slovenians around the world, that this is a good thing, and that this is also part of their mission, that they are raising awareness of the possibility of the use or exercise of electoral rights in ways that are enshrined in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I understand and also allow the possibility that people think differently about different interpretations. But today, by the minister and also by the coalition, it has been said many times that these people are not deleted from this record; people remain. However, if they moved, and today the opposition also said that they could change the addresses as well. And now I don't see why he gets the wrong mail address twice, why he should get it ten times. So if he's moved out, if the person isn't at that address, then he doesn't get mailed to that address anymore, because that makes sense. But a man has the opportunity and the opportunity to say he's changed his address, and then this mail will be sent to another address. That makes no sense. If I said that in the second third grade of elementary school, the kids would understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u271	Thank you very much. A replica? Of course, a replica is possible for all those colleagues and colleagues who have available time. Specifically, colleague Ramšak, you no longer have the time available. You want a replica, too? Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u272	I know well that there are different communication routes, and I know well that our relatives are monitoring in most cases the developments in Slovenia, too, that they want to be informed. However, I think that it can often happen that they are not careful whether they received mail or not, and that they can be from home — when I was at a cousin in America, they said they were going to Florida in the winter, and perhaps they are not at home — so it can happen for objective reasons that they do not get more mail. Of course, they are so well informed about all the dates in Slovenia, and they are not, because even Slovenian citizens who live here do not know when something will happen. So not to mention that it is self-evident that these citizens know everything and that if they do not get the mail twice, it is justified not to send it. The Legal and Legislative Service also considers this to be a restriction on electoral law. So I think that this number is absolutely too low, that it should be higher and only then could you rightly say that it really doesn't make sense to send to this address.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Ms Kristina Valenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u274	Thank you so much for saying that. I did not mean to come forward, but given that colleagues on the other side of this debate room have been consistently discussing how we sanction our citizens abroad, despite the clear interpretations of both the minister and colleagues in the coalition, I have decided that it is still necessary to clarify that in fact, none of the proposed proposals, such as the original draft law, are in violation of any rights or are not abolishing any electoral rights. I'll start by saying I can't support this amendment. I support the proposal, as set out in the original text, because it seems to me life because we are putting an end to another unnecessary bureaucratic task, so I think it is good that we all support it together. And one more thing I would point out is that electoral law is not in itself, of course, it is given, but something also needs to be done and a little bit of interest should we be involved in the decision-making process. Perhaps another aspect, if we had electronic elections or e-elections, and I hope that we will have them as soon as possible, then this debate today on all these bureaucratic tasks and also the costs incurred by this would be unnecessary. I hope that this e-election project will be able to be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u275	Thank you very much. So far, reported debaters have been given the floor. Anybody else want to talk? I can still see that. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I know that it is probably this effort to convince the coalition to support this amendment and at least a little bit to soften this firm position towards our, for God's sake, our electorate living outside the Republic of Slovenia. But I'm curious because here we have Mr. Minister, how they have this arranged, say, other countries, comparable to us if they can provide us with any information. True, I myself have been talking about disproportionateity, because at home the situation is quite different. I or some voter may not be going to the election for ten years, but in spite of everything, he always gets the notice, it's in the directory, etc. Once again, let us try to live in the life of a man living abroad, and let us not take into account that we are all together, let us leave now which government, including the DKP, which has been abolished. And it's not like an administrative unit to get to it by bicycle or by local transport, but some DKP could be 300, 400 or 600 kilometers away or a thousand miles away. Let us try to get into this a little bit, and we do not think that now these voters who live outside the Republic of Slovenia are thinking eight hours a day just about how to realize their electoral rights. But I also accept that teacher's sending someone back to third grade so we don't understand that it's necessary to ask third grade. These are just some of our teachers. God help me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it? Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor and then Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u278	Thank you very much. What has now been said makes no sense, but I can only repeat it. I said if you went to second or third grade or fourth grade and kids that if something doesn't work twice, that if you send someone twice to the same address, the mail comes back, then it doesn't make sense to send five times, ten times, because that guy probably isn't there. That explains it now. As far as it's concerned, ours don't go to the polls either. Today we are talking about the return of mail; it means the non-acceptance of mail. Even with us, if you don't accept mail twice, we start to wonder if a person lives there. That's what this is about. If we send this abroad, 63,000 such mail has been sent, and more than 10% of people have not accepted mail, the mail has returned, that means that the address has not been correct or people have not taken over the mail, then it is no longer sent there. It's an electoral message. Please don't turn your mouth. Of course I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u280	Thank you very much. We've already discussed this a lot on the committee. I'm sorry it looks like one side has a positive attitude to the diaspora, but this side doesn't. It's a scam, cheating on voters and viewers, and I don't know who else. Look, we know there's a cross in the mail, even here in our country. I know that the previous Prime Minister could not possibly have been invited to a hearing for God's sake, but he was sitting in Parliament and sitting in the government, but the mail didn't get him, but that's another story. We need to know that we are not removing any from the electoral list, the elections are not happening from today to tomorrow, it is a pre-election period, and I know that our foreigners are watching our television programmes, reading our newspapers, and they know that there will be an election on 24 or 25 November or December. He can decide to take over this mail, or he can say what I care about. I'm not surprised, you know. Because if I lived in Texas on some farm, I'd say, no matter what I interfere with my country's policy, those who pay taxes will settle, and I'll come to my country and I'll be here and I'll be well received and so on. Some people just don't want to make decisions about political and other things in the country because they don't care, and that makes sense. We need to know that it is not only those who went from home five, 10 years ago, but that their knees are such and different that they do not even master the Slovenian language, but are still ours – and thank God they are – and they need to be cared for. And that money -- I don't know, it probably wasn't a cost today, because God forbid they say that. But if we save this money after that second send, we'll say, but now we're sending 40,000, I'll say, mail less, savings are that and this savings, and we'll give this diaspora for cultural events, for whatever it is; also for young people to come to us and we'll fund their stay here and so on. I'll sign this right now! But to send 60,000 packages in empty, it's not a small envelope, it's big has its weight and so on, and it's coming back years and years, and that's not good. I repeat: they must remain on the electoral lists, they must have open doors that as soon as they decide they want to vote that they have the option. If we can ensure that, then this law is appropriate. I will not support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u282	I have to say, I'm starting to laugh when I compare this debate and that debate in the morning about the deleted. There was full understanding for those who, within a few months, could not arrange citizenship and permanent residence. There was so much understanding. Unbelievable! Those won't be harmed by more than 100 million, and for these, it's a waste of written shipments. Very sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Meh would like to discuss, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u284	Well, that was under the belt, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, to discuss this morning's topic, which is not a topic at all. This morning we were talking about something that happened wrong, and it's ugly, and it's a stain on our historical memory, and it's a proud thing. But what we are doing now, of course, is a stain that we are trying to reduce or reduce damage, to reduce costs in this area. This is what I would say: someone here today said that we could not have an election for 10 years, but we're still getting notifications. Yes, if they did not return, as if he were no longer there, that he did not accept it; if he gave a clear signal that he was no longer there. And here it is. He received a notice like all other citizens, two sheets. And someone else said, if they don't get twice, that's not good. He says they're not aware of this situation with us, that they're not monitoring it. Ladies and gentlemen, they decide. That's actually the point. We can't interfere in the same basket that he's not familiar with, and he didn't get a notice in the same basket, but he's actually deciding our fate here in the country. It is right, however, that we have a kind and good attitude towards our minority, to our citizens and citizens who are not here. But not in that way that we will be sending indefinitely and will not act at all when it manifests that there is no one at that address and that there is nothing to be done about it. But it is right that in the future, even today and tomorrow, we speak of those who are acting on official duty with the Slovenes abroad doing their part; to do their part in the future, and to hunt down those who wish to make decisions, and to have a friendly relationship with our natives. But everything else — let's stop, let's finish. Democracy is also about raising our hands and deciding. And as we decide, it'll be fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I take it that we have concluded the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 19th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 17.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u286	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Reparation of Damage to Persons Deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18 November 2013 marked new." By Article 2, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group. Note: The amendment is linked to the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 3, 4, 11, 23 and 24. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Article 3, Title 3, to Articles 4, 11, 23 and 24, shall become irrelevant. We're starting the vote. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the SDS Group? Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u287	Your Honor! The term "delete" has been established in relation to the Baltic States. In the Baltic countries, Russian minorities have been deprived of their citizenship by decrees, all rights, in some cases even property, people have been literally apathyds, pushed to the brink. Russia as their homeland after the breakup of the Soviet Union refused to accept them. These people have lived for months and this was a problem that, paradoxically, the European Union and the institutions of the Council of Europe were setting an example for Slovenia. No country in Europe at the time of its creation was so arbitrary that everyone who wanted to live in it wanted its citizenship. No one has granted as many citizens as Slovenia, which has thus shown that there is no fear or resentment against anyone who wishes to live in its territory and be a loyal citizen if he only respects its laws. That is why the great injustice that has occurred to everyone that this term "deleted" is so easily used in Slovenia, because the situation in Slovenia, where it was transferred from one register to another, is simply not comparable to what was happening in the Baltic countries. Therefore, we also propose that in the law – as the legislative authority today we have this right, and I claim that also duty – corrects the term that is now used because it is wrong, because all Europe understands it differently and needlessly on Slovenia as a country and on all its citizens and citizens, it casts a bad light on all its inhabitants. Because in the eyes of the outside world, because of the misapplication of the concept, it equates us with what was happening in the Baltic countries. What happened in Slovenia is precisely recorded in the SDS Group's amendment; this was a transfer from one register to another register. The only problem was that, in fact, decisions were not issued which would be served by an appropriate procedure in order for people to have the possibility of judicial and other administrative protection. This is actually the essence of the story of the erasure that is being exaggerated and displayed in the wrong light. Once again, Slovenia has been given, even as an example to the Baltic States, in the case where this term is used, when it is deleted. That is why the adoption of this amendment is essential, so that once and for all it will cease after the unnecessary placing of Slovenia in a bad light abroad, because it is necessary to know that this also costs us a lot. Of course, the country in the eyes of the outside world, which is clouded as exot, is a country that investors, potential business partners avoid far away and that is why we all live worse. It is therefore a responsibility to independence, to our country and also to the development of the country of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Would you like to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mrs Janja Klasinc, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u289	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Of course, the Positive Slovenia Group will not support this amendment, for a simple reason, because everything we have just heard is not true. The deletion is the right expression, which is confirmed not only by the European Court of Human Rights, but also by our Constitutional Court, and several times, and I have already listed in the debate today, and I will now repeat, as well as by the United Nations Committee on Human Rights, the United Nations Committee on Economic and Social Rights, the United Nations Committee against Racial Discrimination, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights and, of course, everyone who knows what respect for human rights is. The term "delete" means that the Republic of Slovenia made a big mistake two decades ago, and this is not a transfer from one register to another register, but a removal of a large group of people living in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia at the time, of fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u291	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats will not support this amendment, nor will the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, and not those of the following if this were accidentally adopted, which are related to it. We believe that this is not only about using one term instead of another, but it is about a professional term that has already been established in law for a group of residents with permanent residence in Slovenia who have not applied for citizenship. This is what the documents talk about, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are talking about, the law governing the status of these persons is talking about, and if they now adopt a law governing only the compensation scheme, it would be inconsistent in its terminology with the status law. It is therefore not just a word change, but it is a fundamental substantive question, because the term "remove from the register of permanent populations" marks the act of this country from the beginning of 1992, which it has done and which has been recognised as an injustice and we are charged with compensation for this injustice. This is also what we will do with this bill, and we believe that this must be done, or too late in view of the decision of the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights, but at least in due course, it is said by the end of this year. It is a number of issues that we have discussed not only once. Two of the most well-known constitutional decisions of 1999 and 2003, in addition to more than 7 decisions, which resulted from individual applications to the Constitutional Court, five times the decision on the request for a referendum, all of these acts, which indicate how much time we have lost in solving the responsibility of the State for the injustice it has committed to the deleted. There is nothing to help play or play with citizenship and permanent residence, these are two different things that each individual had the opportunity to decide from the promise of pre- adoptive acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? If not, in your personal name, explanation of vote? Not at all. Can I help you? I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. 8 Members and Members of Parliament registered. The first one has the word, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u293	I'll support the amendments. However, another matter that is important, which you did not talk about today, is, above all, those who did not read the so-called judicature or against Kurić and others, i.e. the case of the European Court of Human Rights, where there was a fundamental argument that these people did not have a legal remedy – that is, what colleagues Grims had previously talked about. In this erasure, when some of you talk about erasure, there was no possibility, they were not given a decision, and that was that bureaucratic mistake, which is why we are sitting here today. The other thing that the public will never know is this, I can say, Vehementality or the total negligence of Slovenian bureaucrats. One of the things that has been happening in Parliament all these years, when there have been some possibilities when these things could be corrected at a lower cost, there have been no political majority of them. I am talking, of course, about legal bases or legal measures, where we have talked about a specific constitutional law that we could fix, we could also idealise matters. However, another important issue is the last one that took place in the European Court of Human Rights where Slovenia issued its arguments. For example, the Slovenian Attorney General's Office was represented by a judge who was formerly a criminal judge. When she came to the Slovenian Defence Office, she was assigned this as the first case. Someone who was a total novice represented the state of Slovenia before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And this is the biggest taste where we can talk about total mine action, we can talk about two legal issues; the first thing we can talk about is so-called, I can even say, the idea that some of the acts were deliberately committed in the last instance, where we should fight for some right as well as the state of Slovenia, where we should present our arguments in the broadest light and where we did not do so. And this is such a bitter taste I felt myself. And that we have done too little to represent this country's true arguments. Of course, I also call on you to support these amendments of our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will support this amendment because it corresponds to the truth and reality, and I personally believe that all those in charge of the reputation of this country should be committed to the truth and not to the defamation of this country and to the desecration of this country, that it will go to the analies of history, that something like this has happened to us, let's say, in the Baltic countries where this problem was. But I do not understand this insistence and the emphasis that Slovenia will be affected as much as possible. Why don't we call it the right word? This will also make no difference, the content of the law, but obviously there is a tendency here to harm Slovenia as a country, how to prevent it from being able to do so in the financial markets, how to defend itself as much interest as possible so that this country will die as soon as possible. We are present from A to Z by this coalition. I call on you, colleagues and colleagues, that you are allies of this country, that you are thinking about the future of this country, that you are thinking about the future of our children, the younger generations, who are now in a hopeless situation, and of course we must all be equal. Not one with a big shovel, not one with black bread. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u297	Thank you. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. It's not like Minister Virant said words don't mean much. In this case, these words mean a great deal. The use of the word "deleted" means that it has actually been deleted and, as Mr Grims has already said, deleted in some other countries, not in the Republic of Slovenia. In our case, it is actually a transfer from an active registry to a passive registry, if you want, or to a register of persons who have been transferred to another registry for termination of residence registration. And everyone was given the legal possibility that they could arrange their status, not the way you want to deceive. They had the opportunity to arrange for themselves or the status of a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia or to arrange for their residence is said to be permanent or temporary. Of course, the word "deleted" is not right and I therefore support the SDS amendment, because I think we need to talk about the register of permanent populations, not the deleted and the use of this unacceptable term.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues! The amendments proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported. I will support them because it is precisely at the time of the independence or creation of our country that I was in our country and that they have settled their status, and just a few of these have told me that all those who wanted it have had every opportunity. All those who did not want to do so did not settle themselves, is their problem or even more; they said, we have been paying taxes all these years, working, working, working, paying all our obligations, etc., and now those who did not do so will be using this country in some way, even at the expense of our taxes. Or, in other words, they're sitting in two chairs. However, when today's speech was about how to trust and how the minister believes he will fight for the rule of law, he has been in this ministerial post for some time now, and I would just remind him that we have a review of the laws that we should review here in the National Assembly following a decision of the Constitutional Court; the deadlines for dealing with them or having already aged are even from 1999. That means 14 years, and no one goes after him. We have ten such matters in the National Assembly, but that's not what you're interested in. I can proudly say, among our fellow believers around the world, if we are, or if we have a reputation in the world, we also have it because of our fellow citizens around the world who are diligent, honest, hardworking people, and, of course, with their help, we have also gained so quickly all integrations or [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u301	Thank you, Madam President. As I have already announced, I will not support this SDS amendment for more reasons. Look, after all, this term and the term that has been set and won by the European Court of Human Rights, which, after all, has been won by our Constitutional Court and other institutions, is the term 'deleted', which is sufficient for those elements that have been experienced by all these 25,000 deleted in our country. So when it comes to human rights violations, when it comes to violations of human dignity, when it comes to deprivation of rights in the social, health, housing area, then it is probably the right term. After all, even if we replace this term "deleted" and transfer, what is the legal consequence of all this? Do you think Slovenia will wash part of the stain this way? Absolutely not! It is known what Slovenia has done, what the state has done and how it has violated human rights. Will this reduce their pain for what they have suffered? Is it possible that there will be greater compensation for their harm? Absolutely not. This amendment, which sets out this, will in no way help to alleviate their pain or to alleviate the mistake we have made. This stain. It therefore seems to me that the amendment to Article 2 makes absolutely no sense. Let it remain as European institutions have determined; not least, they have determined that these are 'blotted out' because they are elements that appear in the whole thing. Well, I will not personally support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u303	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! Amendment to Amendment 2. The Article, such as it is, cannot be supported for two reasons. First, because then the marriage would have a pointless title. It would be called the People's Transfer Act into a Special Record. We should define what "transmission of the population" means to silence the first act, this is an deletion from the register of permanent population, and we would stress the second act, this is the transfer of the population to a special record. A special record would also not be defined. The problem is that it is with the emphasis on the specific record that a conscious political discriminatory act was committed in 1992. In fact, with such a new name, we would have revealed more than we would have confused what you think the people who proposed such an amendment. In fact, when they said that it was a transfer to a special record, they would say that these people were not even transferred to a register of foreigners, but that they even had to apply for foreign status. So they were transferred to some particular unknown record. How did this record come to be? In a debate that was very instructive among the three Ministers of the Interior this morning, we concluded that this record was based on the register of nationals of the former SFRY, which were entered in the electoral directory. Therefore, the electoral directory of these citizens was used as a basis for this special record. With this, respected colleagues and colleagues would really reveal to the world what manipulations were taking place with citizens 21 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u304	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u305	Thank you for your word. I will support our amendment. As we have already said several times, injustices may have occurred and therefore individual treatment is needed, some of you have talked about the work being done by hand, a new state was being created at that time and, of course, some things needed to be settled, arranged for new records. This is, of course, also related to the events we are talking about. Where there was no dispute, people received citizenship cards with the signature of the then minister, and those whose status was not fully clear, or because of various matters, employment, place of birth, were invited. 200,000 such people were invited, so there were no bad intentions to exclude anyone, and out of these 200,000, some responded and settled their status. There was a lot going on, and I already told the case when I was working in the congregation, and then in 1996 and 1997, we arranged for someone to become a citizen, and the Slovene man was fine, but then he didn’t go to work, and he admitted that he had been invited several times, and he thought why he should be there. And he didn't leave, and he didn't get the status he was supposed to. We know that there have been many things going on, people from the former republics from other places across Yugoslavia have also gone to the battlefield and so on, and not all of them have been here as you would like to say, and in fact there have been speculations that we do not know about, so we demand individual treatment. Mr Todorović, one of the main members of the deleted, said he did not want Slovenian citizenship, even if we gave it to him for free. But apparently, he wants compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u307	Thank you very much. The amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, be supported. But I'd like to explain why. Despite today's interpretation, as has been said, which has been very instructive, between the three former interior ministers and the attempt to explain what has happened, there is still no understanding of this, as I see it. It's not about any blurry, it's about simple facts. Yugoslavia had a very specific distribution of citizenship. It was regulated by the Republic and the right to vote was linked to the place of permanent residence. When independent countries were created, including our country, the Republic of Slovenia, it was necessary to redesign the permanent population register, as it was then called, today is the central register of the population whose basis is citizenship. Only nationals of their country and not others may be registered in this register. All others may be in the register of foreigners residing in the territory of Slovenia. And, of course, it is not true that the State then acted discriminatoryly, the State allowed everyone to decide for themselves whether to apply for citizenship and get it through a very simple procedure or to apply for registration in the Register of Populations and to obtain permanent residence in this Register. Of course, rights are not exactly the same. The only mistake that was made at the time, in my opinion, was that there was no automaticity to transfer all those who did not apply to the register of foreigners. You must understand that we cannot have any country in the world, no country in the register, which is the basis for electoral rights, of people who are not citizens of this country. He can't have it. Nobody has it. Therefore, of course, things need to be named as they were done, done, and again: I think that we should go this way and support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Do I still see a wish? Mr. Tanko and Mr. Frangež, probably someone else. The first is Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u309	I said in the morning that such an amendment did not show acceptance because I simply understood it as a great deception. In the morning, I heard a very interesting term that there was a reserve register at the time that I couldn't explain to myself. Well, now I've heard which reserve register – the register for foreigners. I don't know. That's what your colleague said. Take care of it at home. But what's more important is that in this reserve register you only put the ones that fit you. That's wrong! Let me make it right: those who did it, of course. I don't know who did this except for those who signed under certain decisions. Once again: with this amendment, some do not want to wash away the error that has occurred and someone has made it deliberately, deliberately, with the blessing of all participants. I don't know why you're so scrupulously resisting and wanting to wash yourself with something that you didn't participate in. Unless you are – tell me! If you're not, let's wash these mistakes back. And this is what urgently needs to be said out loud and stop being silent and move around and look for terms, reasons, and excuses for what has happened. Once again, accepting such amendments is a disgrace to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u311	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment because, in my opinion, it reflects what has actually happened. For me, they have been wiped out, say, campers, for me, exiles, prisoners, mobilizers, refugees, say, those who have been subjected to the violent act of one regime or another. There has been no violent act against these people. For me, those who were killed after the war have been wiped out and have been wiped out today because this country, that minister, has not yet issued the death certificate. What has happened to these people is nothing more than an unconformity. Not one violent act has been committed against these people. The difficulty of naming does not reflect what was actually happening, and the compensation you will determine does not reflect the pain actually suffered. None of these persons were taken from their homes, nor was the State decommissioning them, nor was anything else done to them. In other cases, as it was said, there were serious consequences — for the one who was affected and also for his fellowman. They were flattered, but not all returned today, they were killed, yet they still have no death certificate and so on. In short, we propose simply saying that the act committed in these persons is named with the right name and the right weight. The consequences that follow from this regulation must also be proportionate to what has happened, but not disproportionately increased compared to other victims, including the process that has suffered significantly worse consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u313	Thank you very much. The amendment and the related amendments show support, I'll support them myself. Otherwise, to explain this. Look, there was a speech about manipulating three ministers who probably know something about it and so on. It needs to be put up at that time. The day of independence, celebrating here in front of the National Assembly, then actually began to run this time until 26. 6. 1992, although this could have been resolved earlier, before the day of independence, we know this, not when we could have settled this status. And once again, don't talk about some terrible injustices, don't talk about not knowing what, because it's also necessary to say that 170,000 citizens have arranged it. 170 thousand people have arranged this in time! The question arises why 25,000 671 people didn't do it. They must have been the ones they didn't know. The other thing that is. There's been calls as much as you want. The media reported on this every day and, last but not least, all of us citizens got what, if you remember, a yellow card signed by Igor Bavčar, Minister of the Interior. If someone didn't get a card like that, he could probably have asked himself, "Why didn't I get one?" And what matters most is that from 26 February 1992 until 1996 there was no problem with them. Neither did they set it, nor did the Slovenian political left. Only then did this problem arise because the wars in the Balkans were over and because Slovenia lived, but there was a question whether or not it would be possible to live. The name "deleted" or "transferred" – of course, it is in all of today's acts because this name was created by the Slovenian political left in 1995, 1996, and that is why others have taken it. I'll support the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u314	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next round. I see a desire to explain the voice. I guess that's the last lap. Mag. Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u315	The argument behind this amendment is that it is the only correct definition of what really happened. In law, it is extremely important that we express ourselves precisely and correctly. This concept was, once again, developed in relation to the Baltic countries, which in the period following Slovenia's independence even became an example of how these things should be regulated. This most clearly shows how the very large difference between what is happening here and in the Baltic countries with regard to which the term "delete" is justified. This was a transfer from one register to another register. Added and, if you want, the essential argument for this amendment is the value of patriotism. In each country, the issue of values in Parliament should be first and among them should have a special place of value of patriotism – respect for their own country, respect for all those who have created it, towards all those who have sacrificed the most for it. In this case, however, I simply cannot understand the insistence on the wrong concept, which needlessly unfairly places the state and all its inhabitants in the wrong light abroad, needlessly because the concept is misused. This is about something incomprehensible. You will not find a country with a long-standing democracy where, in Parliament, a part of politics would literally insist on giving the country the wrong idea and thereby showing it abroad in a worse light than it deserves. What you're going through is really only in Slovenia! Where is the value of patriotism, the value of patriotism, which all the presidents of the state of Slovenia have talked about from its creation to today? It is therefore necessary to vote in favour of these amendments: out of respect for their own country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u317	Thank you. Out of respect for its own country, out of respect for its origin, on the great day that this country became an independent state, out of respect for the promise on which Slovenia stands and on which it originated, this is a promise after the high protection of human rights, it must be acknowledged that what happened was wrong and that the grave was an intervention in the fate of many people, residents and residents of this country. The mistakes of the past must be corrected by an appropriate apology and by taking responsibility for what happened. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot support your amendment today because I fear that the removal of the inhabitants and residents of this country was not a bureaucratic mistake, but was a deliberate political act. So today, after so many years, I would expect at least enough dignity to be properly recognized. Just as you often rightly claim to recognize the dignity and respect of those other injustices that have occurred in the past or in its territory. Therefore, the attempt to adopt this amendment is merely an attempt to reinterpret history, a shameful attempt to justify any other shameful conduct that is closely linked to the origin of this country. The creation of this country is a bright point in the history of the Slovenian people. And he'll stay bright if we know how to admit those mistakes that happened on this trip. The disappearance of the inhabitants and inhabitants of this country was not the only such mistake. Another effort will be needed to repair others.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u318	Thank you very much. I see another explanation for the voice. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u319	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. But I don't know if we all live in the same country. After what I have to listen to, I must say that I am extremely disappointed to be sitting among people who care very little about this Slovenian country. How is it possible that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u320	Self-explanation, no offence [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u321	Please, Madam Vice President, you haven't interrupted one in this House except for me! This is what I am reminded of, citizens and citizens, what is wrong with this House and the leadership that you interrupt me all the time. And I'm asking you not to do this because I'm explaining my voice. I am sure that there was no deletion in Slovenia at the time of independence, but at the very least that it was premeditated. No one can convince me that those in this country who speak in such a way that this deletion — according to their assessment of the so - called deletion — has been premeditated. I don't know if they're speaking in the interest of this country. That's what really bothers me. I am convinced that there is no one in this national assembly who would have been elected to work contrary to the interests of this country. What individuals are trying to say and thus malign the Slovenian state in front of the European and global public is extremely unacceptable and irresponsible. I'm sure it's the worst thing anyone can do to the detriment of their own country. I'm sure this never happened because all the so-called eraseds had the opportunity to settle their status. Maybe there's been some minor mistake here and there where he wasn't aware enough, or else I'm sure it didn't happen, at least not on purpose! Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u322	Thank you. We're voting. You have a procedure? Another explanation for the vote, Mr Srečko Meh and Mr Marko Pavlisič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u323	I can't support the amendment. I also propose this time that we conclude at this point and do not say everything because the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights, all spoke of something wrong, but let me read it to you: "The majority of Demos in the assembly rejected the amendment to the 81st Article of the Law on Foreigners, proposed by the Member of Parliament, and it reads: Citizens of the SFRJ, who are nationals of the other Republic and do not apply for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, and have a permanent residence or unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia on the day of the entry into force of this Act, issued a permit for permanent residence in the Republic." This amendment was supported by the then Demos government, but it is paradoxical that Demos' parliamentary majority voted against it at the time. That's what deleted it with. They weren't allowed to stay here, they were wiped out. That's actually the worst of all. They weren't there, they didn't have a chance! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is only right to conclude here, to vote, to bring shame to the table. Now those who speak of patriotism know that if I do not support this article, I am certainly a patriot and do not talk about not being a patriot. My parents were falling for it because we're free here! There's someone else who can. And we still haven't given the death certificate to the 4,000 who were dead on Rab, they gave their lives for this country. We didn't do those, either! I propose: we close, vote and move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Pavlišič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u325	Thank you for your word. It's a dilemma, but let's write "deleted" or write "transferred." It is right to write as most people will understand and I have allowed myself here to ask Uncle Google in the context of the website sds.si, how many times they use a single term. There is the term "deleted" 170 times, usually associated with this problem that we are dealing with here today, and 64 times is used transmitted, usually associated with a purely different problem, which we understand that you also understand in the SDS what this term means, and it is clear that it is better to write it in the law. I will, of course, reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u326	Mr Pavlišič, in his own name it was important, not obvious to others. Thank you very much. We're voting. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 to 47. [[It's 30 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 has not been adopted, and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 is irrelevant. We move on to Article 3 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. Anybody want to explain their voice? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 30 to 47. [[It's 30 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 4. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 has not been adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4 is irrelevant. We are moving and deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. Do you want to explain your vote on behalf of the SDS Group? Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u327	Now we're going to the core of the story. The thing before us today should have been solved decades ago. A decade ago it was reached with Minister Bohince, then on behalf of the SD and on behalf of the SDS, an agreement already written, we both signed a consensus on the constitutional law on what happened and how to settle it. Then came Tone Robb, and on behalf of that radical current in LDS, it crashed. That's why this thing has been dragging itself for so long, and today it's right in front of us. Then we offered more constitutional laws in between. Today, it would be very interesting to present all the materials that we have ever offered, even some of them in the process, here to see how much of this material is already in quantity. But everything was rejected, for all the transition left always stood on its feet and cried out with a loud voice, "You lie, there will be no compensation, because there can be no compensation!" What do we decide today? It's only about compensation and nothing else! It's the core of this whole story, and that's all it really was all about. I have repeatedly warned that if such arrogant rejection of all proposals for any agreement and consensus are continued, everything will turn into a bid on the amount of compensation. That's exactly what happened to your marriage. First you proposed 40 euros a month, then you increased it by an amendment on the committee to 50. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u328	On behalf of the Group of Members, not of others.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u329	Excuse me, ma'am, I'm talking exactly about this because the point is money. I understand you're in pain, but that's the truth. It's all about money and nothing else. And this money, about which the Minister made it very clear that "if anything goes wrong, the total amount of compensation will also be able to far exceed a billion euros". That's his quote. Even now, there is a net amount of € 130 million in the law, and there are some possibilities for the lawsuits that we are yet to come to. Since this whole law is obviously written entirely from the thumb, it is actually an opportunity to act rationally and to lower it, just as you have raised it. This is why we propose that a lower base be applied, because then this will also affect the whole law. Even so, the law has a weak point to which I am reminding you now – you are opening it up, in addition to giving everyone flat-rate compensation, including again all obsolete hands, which means an unlimited possibility of action. Then you put on a hat. I am very interested in whether that cap will survive the judgment in the Constitutional Court and in the European Court of Human Rights. If he doesn't survive, Pandora's box of unlimited compensation will actually be open, and the damage to Slovenia will be incomprehensible — for a matter you yourself have cooked by rejecting all arrangements for ten years, when you shouted that no compensation will be available, because it can't be done, and accusing others of lying. Who lied, ladies and gentlemen, what do we decide today? About the Compensation Act!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u330	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, he has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u331	Thank you, Madam Vice President. If this amendment were to be voted on, then we would have an absurd situation in order to have a different terminology as set out in Article 7 of the Act. But this is not the main fact that the Group of Social Democrats will be against this amendment. The main fact is that the amendment proposes a halved amount of compensation. The compensation proposed by law combines both types of compensation, compensation for material and intangible damage. However, as defined, it will not be able to significantly exceed the half of the compensation awarded by the European Court of Human Rights to 5 injured persons in its judgment. So it's a flat-rate compensation, but it's not going to be able to enforce all deleted, says the more than 25 thousand, but only those who have proven to be in the process of regulating their legal status are saying to return to the status of permanent residence. This is the condition, and this is a condition that reduces the circle of beneficiaries and makes the Social Democrats not satisfied and we attach the Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner so that the circle of beneficiaries should be wider. But we have reached an agreement, we are in compliance with this law, if we adopt it, what the European Court of Human Rights has imposed on us, and now there is indeed a fundamental difference between subjective and objective truth. This is an old philosophical question, but in this case the European Court of Human Rights has imposed compensation. No compensation is available so far, the Slovenian court has awarded, because there was no legal basis for it. This needs to be said again and again why we need to do this and why those who advocate the adoption of this law are not national enemies, but we are trying to do at least something about the adoption of this law that the European Court of Human Rights has imposed on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Are we moving on to a decision or do you want to explain your voice in your own name? I'm opening the application. The application shall be made. The first is Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u333	Thank you, Madam President. For more than a decade, we've been listening to how no compensation will be paid, but look at the fraction, we're in the article where we're fixing the compensation. Slovenia has always been generous to all who have come to our country. If I only remember the controversy, for how long it was possible to buy citizenship, whether it was pizza burek, or for more or less. Now, members of the coalition on the committee have made it easy, without training, to raise the amount from €40 to €50 a month in compensation, and we, in the spirit of saving Mrs President of the Government and Minister of Finance, are lowering this price to €25 per month. In short, this amendment is also part of the fact that the Minister of Finance will no longer have to be in charge of abnormal amounts, because we will pay the bill in one way or another to all citizens through various new taxes and taxes, which we are witnessing with almost every law. Moreover, the amendment is correct because it is proportionate to other laws where compensation is given, but I believe that the coalition of this amendment will not support it, as it is increasingly obvious that Slovenians are becoming second-rate citizens, and that the left hand needs new citizens and is therefore willing to pay them richly. If we support the SDS amendment, at least we'll make some order here. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u335	Thank you, Madam President. I will certainly support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the discussions before the vote, we stressed that if you knock on our conscience that injustice needs to be corrected, we have no problems in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have always advocated that the injustices must be corrected, that each case must be dealt with individually, and that this amendment, in fact, implies in some way what you have already proposed in the basic proposal of the law, that for each month compensation of EUR 25 should be granted to all those who have been transferred from the permanent population register. In doing so, let me draw attention to what is very important and to which I would agree and support your proposal if we came up with a law that would regulate all damages in a uniform manner, and so now we have two laws that define compensation differently, and let me remind you that for campers and stolen children and prisoners, the state has ordered only 1,250 euros of compensation for each month. But, look at the fraction, there is even a date to be set for, for example, an outcast or interned person who is given 0.8358 euros that this date is that he did not return to State 31. 12. 1945, and we're going to give it all back today. It's unfair here, and it's not fair. Slovenia is in such a difficult situation and with this high compensation it is also a burden for citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I see a few more wishes. I'm opening the application and I'm asking you to sign up for those who would really like to explain. Four reported. First Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u337	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment. However, I am asked a question or people have asked me, if this law is to be adopted, they would really like to know or at least have a sense of how many of those who, under this law, will be recipients between those 12% or slightly less than 12 who did not come to the elections when we decided whether we wanted Slovenia alone or not. I am sure that there will be none among these recipients who would then be among the 80% who voted for Slovenia alone. All of them wanted this country, and they're between the 170,000 and the ones who took care of it later. I know in particular the personal cases, which even after 10 years of finding out or needing something, have settled this matter without a hitch. But it is true that you will probably take this money out of that pile when you abolished state pensions years ago for our citizens and citizens who worked after 65 years of age, of course they have nothing, but there were about 180 euros, for those who received social assistance because they refused them because they didn't want to pay the real estate to the end, and of course with what kind of tax. You're specialists for that anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u339	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will support this amendment because I believe that the state of Slovenia has, after its independence, had to regulate the status of all residents in the country. It had to regulate the rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for those who did not have it, it opened the door wide and it is right that it did so. For those who did not want to do so, they were able to apply for foreign status the very next day, even within a few months when this could be regulated. This would regulate their status and the rights they had in this country. However, it must be clear to us that someone who is not a national of the State cannot be registered in the register of the population, which is the basis for an electoral right based on citizenship. Other registers are practically impossible to create, so there is always talk about such a famous reserve register. And this is where things need to be settled. The courts have instructed us that those persons who have not settled themselves should be provided with some compensation, despite the fact that there has been a decade and more of this talk about no compensation being made, that this should be settled in a way that I do not know how. There have been several attempts, constitutional laws, normal laws, if I say so, which are accepted by a normal majority – we have not reached any agreement. We are now ahead of the fact that compensation must be accepted, so I believe that the amount of compensation of EUR 25 is more than appropriate and that in this way, despite all the other reservations and comments that a person has, but we must make. It is our duty to respect and respect the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. In doing so, it is important that we decide for ourselves how we will act. Given the state of finance in Slovenia, I believe that EUR 50 is significantly overcompensation per month, so I suggest that [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u341	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment. That's the first one. Second. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights clearly shows that I had the opportunity to know this matter. We are now talking about giving these people 50% of what has been judged in Strasbourg. There is a very clear case-law where only 10% of the European Court of Human Rights, after countries have implemented similar judgments. This means that if we paid 240 euros in full on one deleted and for the whole period, it would also be okay and there is no need for 50%. This is the first – because we are proposing a reduction. Second. On the other hand, the argument was that there had been no compensation so far because the legal order had not allowed it. I hope there's someone out there watching this and seeing this disgrace. General legislation makes it possible to sue for damages and not to say that they were not. Mr Todorovic received EUR 17 000 in 2010 and received EUR 54,000 in interest. That was first-degree. Do not say that this is not possible in the Slovenian legal order! That's the real mystery of what's going on. I repeat, 17,000 euros has been paid, 54,000 with first-degree interest. He's walking around the National Assembly today, and I don't know what he's doing. What did he say? "I did not ask for Slovenian citizenship for principled reasons because it seemed non-civilisational to me." Ladies and gentlemen, imagine what we're doing or what you're doing! The compensation must be reduced at least as much as we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u342	The next explanation for the voice, by really asking no offense, be all right, don't accuse anyone. I believe you won't. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u343	In this terrible financial distress, when we took state pensions from people who have worked for 40, 50 and 60 years, we took away their smallness, and social support, and I don't know what we took, you consider yourself one to be an insult to some reality. Yes, I agree. It's an insult to these Slovenians who took everything from them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in such a situation that our amendment actually assesses the country's potential in this situation. But he could have behaved differently, and he would have behaved like a hanger, as you do, and he would have said, "If Minister Cuffer is there a billion, he doesn't know who he took it from, but he won't admit it, and he's hidden the money, and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] I'm here, I'm there, I'm there, I'm there, I'm there, I'm there, I'm there, I'm there, I'm there, I'm there, I'm there. The Slovenes will eat, but the next generation won't have a job, they'll have to move out, but let's be hung-up as you are. Is that fair? That's why we took them, I don't know what, because they were Slovenians. For others, it has to be practical. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Everywhere. People have said that this country is uncivilized and ashamed of these countries, but now the Slovenians have to pay them to measure us — some — so one normal compensation that allows us to get out of this situation is a normal thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u344	Thank you very much. I also see a desire to explain my voice by alerting all Members and Members once again, to be correct without accusation, controversy and perception. Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u345	Madam President. I suggest you behave with dignity. What you do with comments before Members begin to speak is unworthy for the National Assembly. If the President is not able to hold meetings of the National Assembly in accordance with the rules and manner he has established and in the manner that other Members have discussed and reasoned on, then it is better to leave the Presidency and lead on any other less difficult matter. The way you now allow yourself to be warned or to fall into the word is inappropriate, because none of those who have explained the voice of my delegation have spoken, not improperly, not improperly, nor unjustly, nor insulted anyone. They were talking about facts. And now, if you don't know the facts, it's hard to prove them to you. Let's learn. If you don't want to hear them, close your ears. However, the explanation of vote is intended to give someone an argument as to why they will act as they intended. And don't allow yourself and abuse what comes to you at that function up there. I also warn others, too, Mr President of the National Assembly has allowed himself today more than is intended and permitted to chair when he holds the meeting. In the debate and in the explanations of vote, it is simply necessary to substantiate the matter with facts, and the President cannot intervene in the debate or in the explanation of anyone who wishes to base his debate on facts. We are not just talking about numbers in this case, but we are also talking about comparatively how it was done in similar cases. It's probably not an abuse if someone says anything else. If not, we can only ask: I'm 50 or I'm not 50. Then this is the explanation for the case. In the future, I would also like to point out that those who are chairing the meeting of the National Assembly should be given a dignified one, because this city is to come. When Mr Virant attacked one of our Members and accused him of manipulation and called him a manipulator, no one reacted. No chairman. Now that we're talking about what's proportional and what's wrong, you can't even say that to the end. Even earlier in the debate, when my colleagues spoke about compensations, you prevented them from arguing. What, then, is the purpose of the debate on the amendments? Indeed, Madam President, I propose that you take this meeting to the end with dignity.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u346	Dear Mr. Tanko! I owe you an answer. I follow the rules of procedure of the meeting, but when one of the Members accuses someone else and says that he's hanging himself, that we don't care about the country, I have to take a call. It's my duty. Therefore, I will continue to conduct the meeting properly if none of the Members and Members of Parliament accuses anyone in the Chamber. Please, let's be truly correct. And I don't have to be insulted in person either. We're moving on to voice-explanatory application. The first one has the floor, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u347	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, this amendment proposed by the SDS will be supported by a justification. We are living in an extremely acute economic, social and could say some kind of crisis. We don't have the money to make people live normally. We've done a bunch of things when we've cut those incomes to the people who deserve it, and we've done it over and over and over again. On the other hand, we are talking generously about compensations to those whom I still claim to have not been erased, and I am sure that they do not belong to them in this respect as well. I am also convinced that in the Republic of Slovenia we have an extremely large number of vulnerable groups who break through from month to month and have no chance of getting any additional funds in one way or another that would still be justified and where the state should take a step closer and help them in this given situation and the situation in which this country is. But we decide to generously pay compensation to those who have been erased, pay money back to those who are privileged, and we have enough money to rehabilitate the Taliban banks, etc. Where's the fair and fair country here? Where are those responsible for this situation in this country? That's one question to ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u349	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. I am somehow calling on my fellow Members to be rational today, if we are to correct these matters. Nevertheless, I call for some rationality to be remembered by people who are outside of Parliament who live hard, who break through day after day. Above all, let us remember all those who may add something to the fact that we are advocating that this compensation is EUR 25, and those who think it is more, I call on these people to add to it. University graduate Katarina Kresal, 23 February 2009: "SDS has very well manipulated its statements, and all the great efforts on the huge damages that are coming are completely unfounded, demagogic and fictional." Here I also have a statement from a university-graduate lawyer, Miran Potrča: "Today we both know that the bond law prevents any enforcement of damages over five years, because it is an absolute statute of limitations." Here I also have a statement from Aleš Zalar, a university-graduate lawyer, December 14, 2009: "There are no compensations that you spoke of." Here I have Mr Matjaž Hanžk's statement, December 7, 2003: "Talking on compensation is only a rationalisation of his xenophobia and seeking excuses to prevent the implementation of decisions by the Constitutional Court." Here I also have a statement from the university-graduate lawyer Matevža Krivica, January 12, 2004: "More than half of the deleted persons have been re-acquired more than three years ago, and then no compensation would be due to them at all, and the rest of the last three years, of course, could not have resulted in any particular great damage." Dear colleagues, if you can at least partially read the predictions of university-graduate legal experts who have somehow explained that there will be no such compensation, please at least at this last stage, believe once in Slovenian Democratic Party and that you are rational and that you are particularly aware of the harm of all those citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are working every day to pay the bill for the benefit of this common country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u351	Thank you for your word. I will support our amendment, which reduces the number from 50 to 25, because I estimate that this is proportionate to the compensation that we are already providing in this country, so that we are giving to victims of war and post-war violence who have experienced significantly different things, as well as the so-called deleted. They lived in a totalitarian regime, but there were indeed systematic violations of human rights, and their lives were threatened and so on. In short, given the weight of these events, or the months that some have spent in camps, on stolen children, I estimate that 25 euros is a monthly compensation. I also wanted an answer from the minister, or I think we should talk about another problem at this stage or when compensation is granted. In fact, many of these people had a decision to grant apartments because they worked in different companies, from Litostroj, Istria and so on, including military housing, and then they were able to decide, under the law of Jasbinšk, whether these apartments were redeemed or returned or waived that right, and if they had decided to do so, they had already received compensation from the owner. Since data are that these people appear among the deleted, they should be sure to check that they have received such compensation. For those who decided to return the apartment, so that they did not want it, told a number of workers who worked, for example, at the Apartment Fund of the Municipality of Ljubljana, who also told them that they were going home to Bosnia, in other words, that they no longer needed an apartment here and took that compensation. I will support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u353	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, let me start by saying that I agree with your warnings about the appropriateness of the debates in the National Assembly. Then let me say that I will not support the amendment to Article 7. The number of EUR 50 was based on an assessment of the injustice that has been committed to people who have been transferred, as you say, from one register to the so-called special record. The characteristics of this special record were that it did not allow for the granting of any rights, neither material nor intangible rights. This was characteristic of this right, for this situation with a special record. It is therefore also necessary to know that in 1991, when Slovenia adopted and changed its legal status as a country, it inherited certain groups of the population in its territory. One of these groups was also about a tenth of the population, who were members of the nationalities and nationalities of other republics and autonomous provinces. They were considered to have the same rights and duties as all other inhabitants of Slovenia until independence. After 1992 or after their disappearance, they were considered to have no more rights and duties than other citizens or residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Aware of the fact that, on the basis of the loss of all material and intangible rights, these people have for a long time, some to this day, lost a whole range of rights and survival opportunities, it will also be necessary to assess how much they have lost with this deletion in all these 21 years. It is therefore not possible to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u354	Thank you very much. I'm opening a round of applications for debate. Not a debate, but an explanation of vote, I apologize. The first one has the word Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u355	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Look, in the previous term, we passed two laws, which were said to have no consequences, a law on deleted, where the government has consistently advocated that there will be no compensation under this law. We have also passed the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, where it has been said that this assessment will be for statistics only, so that there will be no basis for any taxation. What happened? The law we have adopted on deleted is now the basis for great compensation. Similarly, the Law on Mass Valuation is now the basis for a property tax. So, how can we believe? To move on to the amendment; I will support this amendment because the country is in such a financial situation that every million is badly needed. You know how with the amendment we have only three million somehow assured in the firefighters' budget that at the Roads Directorate, where 80 million were taken in the maintenance of state roads, they still do not know how they will come through when they have not had enough money to maintain state roads to date, as they should have. So much, we save about 80 million, because our amendment had a score of 170 to half, it was a good 80 million — let’s put it on state roads! But here we are generous, no problem, we'll pay, we've got money. I think that we should not be so generous in the situation we are in, and that the money we offer with our amendment is sufficient to pay for all these injustices that have been committed. But you don't want it. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u357	Thank you so much for saying that. There is something very wrong with determining compensation in the Republic of Slovenia. Just for example, Virant’s Grass at the Age, due to its proximity to the landfill, was compensated for some 100 euros a month. Those transferred from the record to the record are likely to be confirmed by a compensation amounting to EUR 50 per month. Those who actually suffered are campers, wiped out, refugees, mobilized, and have suffered physical and psychological violence, and you have set a 40-euro compensation monthly. I told you earlier that some of you have not yet issued death certificates so that relatives would know where they are and when they have disappeared. Many of those I'm talking about, you've taken property away or property was taken away - some of them haven't got it back yet. And no one cares. It doesn't mean anything to anyone. Those who have received the maximum compensation for nothing are today proposing compensation that goes beyond the compensation of those who have experienced real suffering. I ask whether it is appropriate to provide for compensation in this way. I believe that compensation for persons who have been transferred from one record to another is set too high in relation to proportionality compared to some other victims of war and post-war violence. Subtlely too high. That is why I will support this amendment, in addition to some other things that should be regulated in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u358	Thank you very much. We are moving to a vote, which is the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the SDS Group, he shall have the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u359	In particular, the Article provides for alignment with certain other solutions, so to speak, shortening deadlines. Just as this law is written, it is extended over a long period of time, and it is likely that the real consequences of this law will not be seen at first sight. This, on the other hand, blurs things out and will certainly cause additional, probably unnecessary costs. The whole law in this part is, in fact, extremely misleading, as it was at the time of its adoption. One text was given by the Government on the grounds that this is a real reflection of the capacity of this country. Then everything changed on the board. The scope of those covered by this law has increased, and the number to which the actions could be brought has increased. Once again, this law provides for the full re-opening of all obsolete deadlines and has also significantly increased the amount of compensation. If the first proposal was in line with the real capabilities of this country, what is this second proposal? Has the country improved by 20% at this time? Unless, of course, someone believes what was said in Parliament by Mrs Bratušek, that we are now among the best by what criteria in Europe. Well, it happens today that the OECD position has already been published, which is literally devastating for this government, because it predicts not only that Slovenia will continue to experience an economic disaster, but it will also go back further. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u360	On behalf of the Group of Members, Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u361	This should be taken into account and this should be taken into account in the provisions of this law in order to reflect some of the real capabilities of this country. This article is also intended for this purpose, Madam President. If we were to listen carefully and know this text, we would also know what I am talking about and that this is essential to this law, because these are the costs that your coalition will also pay to all citizens and citizens by your vote, after it has deceived them for years and years that there will be no compensation because there will be no compensation, and thus arrogantly rejected all other solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u362	Thank you very much. We have concluded our explanation of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? [[He does.]] I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The first has the word and the only currently reported Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u363	I'll be in my name, not on behalf of Todorovic, so you won't warn me. Article 8 speaks of the time when these applications should be submitted and nothing else. The proposer proposes that these be three years. Why three years?Oh, my God! It's 10,000 people, about 10,000 people living here today, who are our citizens, live on these few hundred square miles and not in Australia, where we're talking about dozens and hundreds of thousands of kilometers, where we have an administrative unit around each corner, about 60 of them in this space, and why three years, if it's possible to do that in one year. Personally, I think even less, but we have proposed a year. In one year these 10,000 people will be able to reach the administrative unit and will have no problem. I don't know why to give three years. Even then, in 2009 or 2010, when we discussed the amendment of the law proposed by Mrs Kresalov, you had a deadline of three years. And this deadline didn't expire until July. And so there were no more bets, even though you expected them, but there were only a few 100. But you were talking about not knowing how many, 10,000. So, one year's deadline, at about 60 administrative units, is long enough, enough time for all these people to play the right roles, and there's no reason that this is three years. Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Do you want to do it in your own name? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u365	Thank you very much. I will also support this amendment because I believe that 365 calendar days is enough for those who think they are beneficiaries under this law to settle their affairs. I will also support it because one of the previous meetings did not support the extension of the deadline for the exercise of the status of war veteran because it proposed New Slovenia. This is the same period, for exactly the same period, for those who were independent, and the coalition did not recognise the status or extension of the transitional period in order to put these matters into effect. In this case, there is clearly a completely inconsistent behaviour, disproportionate behaviour, and I therefore believe that at least some of these matters need to be balanced. The amendment solves it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u366	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 8. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group to Article 10. Anybody want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. Would you like to do it on behalf of the Member of Parliament? In my own name. You have the floor, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u367	Thank you. This is an article talking about lawsuits, and with the SDS amendment, we want to shorten the deadline for bringing lawsuits from three years to one year, thus preventing Slovenians and Slovenians from becoming second-class citizens in the field of justice. It is completely pointless that a group is subject to unreasonablely long deadlines, even more so, you yourself wrote that "without the provisions of the law governing the judicial procedure, the time limit for responding to the action is 6 months". Another constitutionally contested provision: "No provision shall be applied in the proceedings concerning the limitation of claims under the law governing bond relations." In short, in the hunt for new voters, this coalition and this government are allowing themselves unreasonablely long arms, violating the legal provisions or making Slovenians second-class. One last reason why this is completely pointless. You have written down that in the procedure for determining the monetary compensation, the application and decision at the first and second stages of the fee shall not be paid. In short, the reasons why we are becoming Slovenes and Slovenians are secondary citizens and why this amendment needs to be supported in order to prevent this is more than enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u368	Thank you very much. I can still see two wishes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak and then Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u369	Thank you. Again, the cameras are not a coalition – I will support the amendment. So Slovenians, Slovenian citizens are subject to the Judicial Procedure Act, which sets a six-month time limit for such cases to respond to the action. It's a six-month deadline. That's great! So our citizens will be subject to this, but the people we are talking about today will be subject to a three-year deadline. Why is that? And why would a taxi be excused? I hope that the citizens who are monitoring the transfer of this meeting, but have seen this difference between the coalition and the opposition, and have seen that there are actually injustices against existing citizens, to 2 million people compared to the people we are talking about. But we're talking about 10,000 so-called eraseds or our transfers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u371	Thank you for your word. There is absolutely no reason for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to be subject to different conditions for the exercise of rights than for anyone else who enforces anything in that country, whether this law or any other law. If we set these things up as stated in this law, then we will become foreigners in our own country, second-rate citizens. Whoever has any interest in the enforcement of any matter in that country applies this under significantly more favourable financial conditions, time conditions, outdated deadlines and I don't know what else. What country is it that is so outwardly oriented? There's nothing this country would associate with. Why do we not write such solutions, for example, for those who have fought for this country, who have participated in the conquest? Why do we not recognize such compensations, such long deadlines for enforcement, and so on? What is done with these solutions in this law is totally disproportionate. Similarly, the grass of Minister Virant, who has received the highest compensation, is greater than any beneficiary in this country. A few hundred euros a month, others get 40 euros and so on. I propose that this amendment support those who want something from this country to be placed in the same conditions, within the same time limits, in the same rules of the game as all other citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. I'll support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate would like to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u373	Thank you very much, Madam President. Now we're at a point where we should be overpowering reason. If he's not here by now, he can. When we vote, we will see how much reason will prevail and how much the coalition has the capacity to accept the proposals proposed by the opposition and which are rational. Some of our proposals and amendments seemed irrational to you, we were voted as democracy dictates in this House. The proposals for lower amounts have been applied as you wish. This is probably what the votes bought are, or at least you hope for it. We are now dealing with rational solutions, with very rational solutions. The law will be confirmed, the shame will finally be removed, as some have said here today, and thank God that we will finally put this on the agenda, regardless of whether we may not agree with everyone in this national assembly with all the solutions. Now we have an opportunity to deal with this amendment very simply: to place citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and others, who will now be dealt with by this law, under the length of time within which they must submit claims for their compensation. That's rational. Of course, it is only my appeal to your side that at a point where we can reasonably decide where there is no policy, at least it should not be that only such laws – for those who will regulate it – apply as others do, and that of course they are not exempt from the tax. Neither I nor any of our citizens are exempt from a tax when they wish to exercise their right and when they wish to exercise this right through a court of law. I will, of course, support the amendment, and I hope that at least at this point, it will prevail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u375	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! I have to admit, I don't know the law and the status of the deleted, but on the other hand, I'm very good at math. Look, with the property tax we will burden Slovenian citizens slightly more than 200 million. We're going to give a little less than 170 million or a little more than 170 million for the deleted. In fact, this law limits rights to Slovenian citizens compared to those who have deleted status. Then that, I'd say, really drops over the edge. Then I'm going to conclude my thinking wickedly, and I'm going to say this, that we're going to grant the status deleted to two million more, because if there's more of us, we're going to pay 22 million taxes or the debt of the Slovenian state, so this math is probably going to come out easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u376	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 to 47. [[It's 30 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 11. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 has not been adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11 is irrelevant. We're moving on to Article 12. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. On behalf of the SDS Group, he wishes to explain the voice of the Magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u377	Thank you for your word. I had already told you how this law and what this story was born into; in what I had warned for ten years, you arrogantly denied that compensation would not and would deceive the Slovenian public long and long. It's just compensation. And this article is a second moment of truth. What does this article provide for? A certain number, as a security guard, you gave this to which you could sue next to a lump sum, which is still to be obtained by the so-called deleted, even compensation in court. Here you can see how irresponsiblely to your own country you went to form this law. Much beyond what the European Union has asked of you. There has always been a speech, or a pause, to avoid the huge costs of court, and there is also some logic in this, or to open up prisons and allow themselves to seek justice in court. That was a dilemma. You give everything. More! What does this article really include? This article shows the truth about this law. You give a lump sum, you pay compensation, but I'm very interested once again, given that you open all the outdated hands with this law, the whole Pandora's box of compensation if this cap survives judgment in the Constitutional Court. At any height. It doesn't matter if it's number three or number two and a half. Look, number two and a half closer to the real capabilities of this country, and this was originally your proposal. We are not proposing anything but going back to this proposal. Therefore, those of the original 130 million euros, also endorsed by the Minister, should be seen in this light because it does not cover all of this. Indeed, court costs will also be extremely high. More! You and the law have abolished the obligation to pay legal fees. All those who go to any compensation action, or pay high court fees, pay the costs. All the costs for so-called deleted will be borne by your legislative decision on the shoulders of taxpayers. More! We can now bet that everyone will also receive free legal aid, which is free of charge only for those who receive it and are again paid by taxpayers. So what do you give as a whole? Not only compensation as a flat rate, as most are probably now naively mistaken thoughts, but you also give the possibility of lawsuits, unlimited, because you reopen all obsolete hands, protect it with a cap, and at the same time all costs of judicial proceedings are fully involved, with everything related to the costs of court, including court fees, you turn it back on the shoulders of taxpayers and even more deeply interfere with their pockets. That is why the EUR 130 million recognised by the minister is actually too small and will be several times higher. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Explanation in its own name. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u379	How's it not, Vice President? It always has to be! In this amendment, we are talking about that in cases where they disagree with those 50 euros, which is now a proposal by the coalition that has already been adopted, they can go to court and get 2.5 times, we propose, and the coalition proposes a 3-fold. I think it was originally 2.5 times. I know that this needs to be supported, quite simply, for the financial and economic reasons of this country. But since we're talking about finance, let me put it this way. We all know well, and I have pointed out earlier that we have the judgments of the European Court of Finance where judges have agreed on 10% of the compensation – the one they awarded in the first round. Of course, we're going a lot more against half than we have money as a furnace. Once again because of the public: it is not true that the compensation has not already been fixed! Mr. Todorovic, who said in 2006 that non-civilisational would even be a request to write for Slovenian citizenship, was compensated at EUR 17 000 at the first level with interest of 54 000 – by the way, this is more than GURS is worth my house where I live – it was already awarded at the first stage. So, it is not true that courts do not decide, and it is not true that compensation was not available until now in Slovenia. It's a delusion. I'll support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u381	Thank you so much for saying that. Apparently, we're a very wealthy country. This is based on what we are following today in the explanations and even earlier in the debate on this point, more than obvious. I'm just wondering, because I don't know any cases that, say, a single woman or a disabled person or anyone else who's been caused by the state to have an illegal situation, the state pays all the costs of the trial in advance. And who of those who can then enforce it will be assigned a 2.5-fold enforceable right? Can anyone tell me a single mother's case like this or a disabled person, a worker or anyone? There is no case in this country of anyone being treated in such a special way with such ratings as is prescribed in this law. There's no case. There's no way to find him. I must say that such exceptional solutions to this law cannot be supported. It is said, I am thinking rationally, I am thinking logically, I am thinking also in line with the situation we are in, because obviously we have to take very unpopular measures to fill the state budget, but what we are going to collect will go, more or less, for this payment under this law. And it won't be enough. I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u382	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, then Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u383	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. I will certainly support the proposed amendment. It seems unacceptable to me that we are setting a three-year deadline for lodging a complaint on a first-degree act. When we talk about an act, the proposed law certainly does not deserve the mark of an act that corrects injustices, because to a much greater extent, given its non-selectivity on the one hand, it causes discrimination on the other. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today you reward those who have speculated, and in fact punish those who have regulated their status in accordance with the law in force in 1992, respect the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, will be effectively punished today by this law when you confirm it. All 2 million citizens and citizens will be punished. It's unacceptable what you do and it's unfair to everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u385	Your Honor! We live in a country where the economy is in extreme distress, where entrepreneurs barely survive and keep jobs for employees and thus support their families. You have overburdened them by applying a tax screw to the extent that they are considering either suspending the activity or moving abroad. Both of these countries will be permanently poor and in this way you kill, literally, the Slovenian development potential; also in the long run. At the same time as you have created such a situation, you anticipate some completely disproportionate possibilities for one group of people at a higher level than is the result even of any judgment given by any European institution. They didn't say how and what needs to be arranged, it's your sovereign decision. And they don't just give them a flat rate, as people imagine, that would actually remain within the 130 million that the minister was talking about. This is already a huge amount of money; but you also give them the opportunity to get three more lump sums on the way to court, with the costs of this additional compensation, in addition to the lump sum and all the costs of judicial proceedings, including fees, already passed on to the taxpayers’ shoulders. Back on the shoulders of entrepreneurs, back on the back of the economy, back on the shoulders of all people as taxpayers. This country is simply no longer able to survive. This is not about what you now think is your political goal, it is about the question of responsibility to this country, which you have brought to the brink of bankruptcy. The question is, which part of this edge, which side of this edge is on. As you yourself have said many times, you have already taken a step forward, and therefore this amendment needs to be supported as it approaches [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u386	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Mr. Lucky Meh has the floor. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u387	You'll probably be able to handle the younger ones if we're older. There's something you need to say first. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I can tell by the fact that if someone doesn't like the finger, you have to tell them that you've already told the boards this morning. [[…]] That today it's the same questions that no one can answer and I think it's unfair. Of course, I cannot support the amendment. It also seems right to say that because we have problems in the economy, because economic societies are in trouble that we will not respect the courts, the Constitutional Court and the Court of Human Rights. That's mean. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I read to you where the original sin is. In 1992, when the then Demos majority in the National Assembly prevented an amendment that would not have led to this situation. It's an original sin. It is not the original sin of us to accept or not accept your amendment, but it is the original sin of that act then. That act was not true, it was not worthy of a free state and therefore I cannot support your amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u388	It was in my own name. We are moving on to the wish is Mr Bell Lah and Mr Franz Breznik. [[...]] [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u389	Thank you very much, Madam President. The original sin, Mr. Meh, I apologize, is in this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u390	In Own Name [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u391	I will support this amendment. But I can see the original sin where it was made; perhaps in 1992, when the lustration was not made. It wouldn't be like that. This is what the European People's Party is now proposing to do. It's an original sin. With regard to the purpose of paying citizens all the costs of a judgment or a lawsuit, it is similar to the case I had in the congregation when someone said that we should pay him so much compensation. I said, why, if you're gonna sue us? "What do you think I'm going to sue you with my money? Give me the money first, and then I can sue you!" Here, too, we give a flat rate that they will be able to pay their best lawyers and claim several times the value or value of this lump sum. Why are you doing this? I don't understand that. I don't understand that. Where'd we get the money? But we're going to take another loan at this rate for a billion, and we're going to pay for it. And we'll have our great-grandkids in charge of that. I used to get a call from a friend, and he says you're like kindergarten. It's not weird. All those whom we say do not need to come from academic circles see what we are talking about and have an attitude toward it. We, colleagues and colleagues, have been chosen by so many and so many citizens to sit here and work responsibly. What you are proposing by this law is not responsible for up to two million Slovenians. Not in this situation at all. If you think it's [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u392	Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u393	Thank you so much for saying that. I will, of course, support the amendment. I am aware of the difficult situation that the Republic of Slovenia is in at this time, and I do not see any real economic grounds that this amendment you are proposing could, at all, be in law so that Slovenia can be able to withstand it economically in the coming weeks, months and years. But since you were talking about original sins, look, I think the essence of these discussions here is that the majority of Demos, in your opinion, committed an original sin, that they had even conquered this country. And this is an original sin for you, Mr. Meh, and for your option. And that is, I think, an original sin. This was never your intimate option, and that's what original sin is. What makes you and yours? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u394	On behalf of the Commission [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u395	Today you are arguing in the Balkan south to get as much money as possible to destroy this country economically. [[...]] Despite the fact that the President of the Government has been deceiving the public for three days now, that it is a 4.40 interest rate and speaks and deceives that these were ten years, instead of being three-year bonds, this is the original sin of this country for your option. Everything I've looked at in three years in historical circumstances in 1991 shows that you've been squeezing until the last moment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u396	Self-explanation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u397	You're on your own. [[...]] This is in its own name and on behalf of all Slovenes and Slovenes, those who believe in this country and in which they were in force in 1991, which is, Mr Meh, a problem. And that's the problem, and that's the problem, all of those, half a million citizens who had to move out because of the policy that you're running in this country today. That's the problem. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u398	in his own name, without the obvious. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u399	See, my seat here has given several thousand people in the Republic of Slovenia, especially in the Slovenian Mountains, so that I can speak on their behalf and on behalf of their children and on behalf of all those who believed in this country. And I'm warning you again. Support the amendments of our parliamentary group in order to make it better for us, to make it better for your grandchildren [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u400	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh has the floor to proceed on a procedural basis. Then there's the explanation for the vote, Mr. Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u401	Madam Vice President! It's not fair, it's not fair, it's not at the level of this national council, so I'm simply protesting this way. When a young man loses his temper, I still understand, he's strong, he can't do it anymore. I'm really sorry about what happened, because I'm really sorry about what happened here. I have stated my position, for which I have the same right as each and every one of us. I haven't denied anyone his right, but I said I disagree. And it is true — young people are in trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u402	Thank you very much. I understand your procedural proposal to explain each voice as peacefully as possible. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u403	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. You know, when I listen like that, who's afraid of lawsuits? The one who did this is afraid of the lawsuit. I'm not afraid of any lawsuits. Today we have heard a lot of untruths here, and above all quite a lot of impatience. All of this somehow separates our Slovenian people again. That's not good. We're pointing out with our finger who's going to take something away from them, who's responsible, who somehow brought this country into this situation. And look at the fragment, it's supposed to be these people being wiped out. Listen, you're making people laugh here today, and that's not good. You scold and talk about what they've done, what they're guilty of, who these people are, and so on. 21 years without human rights. Dear colleague Tanko, you said there was no violence committed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u404	Mr. Kavtičnik, on his own behalf, no one [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u405	I'm sorry. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u406	Please [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u407	I'm sorry, I got carried away, just like a lot of people have been brought here. [[...]] I bit my tongue. Listen, no! There have been injustices, violence, psychological violence, and we must resist it today. We've been resisting for quite some time now, and with this law we're going to end this epic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u408	Thank you very much. They want two more words. Mr. Dragutin Mate, you raised your hand, and then Mr. Marijan Pojbič. I agree with you. I thought it was just those two other things you wanted to explain. I'm opening a voice-explanatory application, and please, if it's possible that only this one, already sings, circle. The first one has the floor, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u409	Thank you, Madam Vice President. This amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported and I will explain why. Article 10 states in the first paragraph: "For the damage caused by the deletion from the register of permanent residents which occurred to the beneficiary during the period of deletion, the beneficiary may file an action for payment of monetary compensation for the removal from the register of permanent residents – hereinafter referred to as the action – within three years of the application of this law." I wonder if that's even legal. I'm sure that's unconstitutional. It is amazing that in the Slovenian legal order – or at least I do not know the law that would regulate the issue in such an extended period. I don't know him! And how is it possible that this happened in this marriage?Oh, my God! It couldn't have snuck into this law! So this is all in advance of a zero-educated; that someone will receive the first action, with the money he will receive, then of course he will be able to file another action, as Zvonko Lah said earlier. That's exactly how things are gonna go. Or that those who want to pay a great deal of compensation in this country and thus impoverish it will call on people from all other republics to have three years to come here and enforce compensation here. To me, to a normal Slovenian or Slovenian woman, you can't justify this fact by considering these things that you've written down in this law. That's extreme or I'll say beyond all limits of normal. [[…]] How can you hope to put this burden on a poor Slovenian man in such a way? How do you allow yourself and hope to do so? I really need to tell you that if you step this way forward, it will be your turn when the elections are held.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u410	Mr Dragutin Mate has an explanation on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u411	Thank you very much, Madam President. Perhaps some of our citizens who look at us have the feeling that we are like children's kindergarten because we are saying some things. Well, but when a man listens to these explanations of voices, there's nothing you can do not say a few words about it. In my previous explanation, I have called on the coalition that when those foundations or baselines that someone wanted to confirm come true, it is time for us to consider the issues further rationally. Again, we are talking about an article which, of course, I will support to limit the time in which compensation claims can be filed to limit time. Not now to accuse me of not respecting the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and the decision of our Constitutional Court. We have clarified this, these points, these articles are over, and this law will be passed, because there is no doubt about the number of votes and the presence of members of the coalition in Parliament. Now it's about other things, it's about deciding for ourselves, and we have this right, how and in what form these damages will be – you've already voted. Now we have a chance to put all the people living in this country in the same position, and you don't want that. These appeals do not mean much and I am afraid that the words that have been spoken here "not fair, not fair" Yes, it is not fair and it is not fair to all people living in this country to put them in different situations, with different conditions, how they can file lawsuits and how they must pay for damages of court fees. [[…]] It's not right and it's not fair! I fear that these decisions will also lead to new separations, without need, without any need. We could gather so much sense in the National Assembly that at least these technical matters could be arranged in a fair and fair manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u412	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. we decide on the amendment of Article 12 of the SDS Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 15. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 15. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of Article 22 of the SDS Group. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 22 becomes irrelevant. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 shall become irrelevant. We're moving on to an explanation of vote. On behalf of the SDS Group, he shall have the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u413	Your Honor! Equality before the law. The equality is therefore the constitutional category and the amendment before you is written precisely in such a way that it follows consistently this principle to ensure to all, including those covered by this law, equal treatment in social protection programmes, equal rights, equal treatment in the resolution of the housing issue, equal access to the educational system. So equality before marriage. Why is this so important? Imagine now a man who was once placed in the same dilemma as all those covered by this law, so-called deleted. And he has regulated his status in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia either to reside permanently, either temporarily or to accept Slovenian citizenship. 200,000 people have settled their status, ladies and gentlemen. Two hundred thousand men! Now imagine that those who are covered by this law, which have not regulated it, would be given some special priority rights. What does that mean? Those who respected Slovenian law, those who consistently respected Slovenian legislation, would be in a worse position than those who did not. Is that the goal of any law? Is that even legal? Ask yourself when it comes to voting on this law! It is only a consistent question whether we respect the constitutional principle that we are all equal before the law, that we have equal access to all rights, that we exercise them in the same way and that we are all truly equal before the law and the constitution. This is the essence of the SDS amendment and I will therefore vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u414	Thank you very much. We are now speaking in explanation of vote or on behalf of the Members of Parliament about the amendment of the SDS Group by 15. A member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette, he wanted to explain Mr Richard Braniselj's vote, then Mag. Majda Potter on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u415	Thank you very much. We're talking to the amendments to Article 15. Here we have two amendments, the SDS amendment and the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Civil Gazette and DeSUS. Article 15 refers to the provision of certain ratings as part of the compensation scheme in the sense of recovery or this compensation scheme. This should be done with caution. Indeed, the compensation scheme contains as much compensation as provided for in one of the preceding Articles and also credit ratings. The Court, which will decide on this, will take into account and weigh whether this set of ratings and damages is appropriate and fair for the settlement of the damage to those people. If we overcut certain rights that we are granting, not compensation, this compensation scheme can be found to be insufficient before the Court of Human Rights and we will fall through the exam. In the Citizens' List, we will support the amendment that we tabled together with the DeSUS Group, but we will not support the SDS amendment that controls these rights too harshly. Nor will we support the amendment to Article 20 tabled by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and the SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u416	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Purity on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u417	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In the Social Democrats Group of the Act in question, we do not accept it as a confirmation of patriotism or, for example, as was said to establish accountability to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which is reduced because it will cause so much and so much financial consequences, but we understand this law as the responsibility of politicians and politicians to see the judicially proven, by a decision proven, by several decisions the proven injustice that has happened to people, and now it must be compensated. Article 15 speaks of other forms of just satisfaction — since I have already stated in one of the previous explanations that there is material and intangible harm in marriage. The original text, the one in the supplementary proposal, provides for seven such forms of compensation. The amendment proposed by the SDS removes two compensation options; these are essential: this is the payment of the contribution to compulsory health insurance and the possibility of a state grant. The reason why these two things were put out is that in reality those who give out these two beneficiaries do not understand the magnitude of the problem we are facing. For the Social Democrats, such a poor just satisfaction is totally unacceptable. And once again, the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia, citizens and citizens of Slovenia are not only Slovenian nationalities, they are also members of other nationalities. It's all about Slovenians and Slovenians all the time. No one has the right to speak for me when it oppresses me between those two million who identify themselves with the opinion of someone who does not support the law. Therefore, I think it would be right to speak with a greater degree of sensitivity and also respect for the different views on things. What we say with different formulations and different words, Social Democrats all the time, is this: the original sin is erased. With the law, we will only remedy the shortcomings that the status law did not have, and it is imposed on us by the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u418	Thank you very much. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u419	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I would like to draw attention to two facts in the introduction. The first fact that these people have actually been wronged and that they have also been severely violated by human rights, which we are actually obliged to correct. Secondly, we need to think about the situation in the country and what burden we have on our citizens and the social situation of some of our citizens. Both of these moments tell us, for the first time, to wipe out a lady or make amends. And secondly, that we should no longer share additional forms of fair enough privileges at this time. After careful reflection in our Group of Members, we have decided that Members of Parliament will vote in their conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u420	Thank you very much. An explanation in your own name? I'm opening an application for reasons on my own behalf. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u421	So it's about what? In addition to our wallet, we do make it possible for this category of persons to do some other things. The coalition proposes seven, and we propose five – so no one would say we are against it. But there's something to be said about all this. Look, the coalition says they have the right to be included in the priority treatment of social protection programmes. We say they have the right to be included in social protection programmes. Why should we have a head start? Look, the coalition says it wants to grant them state scholarships. And we say no. Furthermore, the coalition says they have the right to have priority treatment in solving the housing problem. We say they are equal citizens. Please, what are we talking about? We are talking about equal citizens. Not that we will now consider them as a priority, but that they will now have even the advantage of solving the housing problem. I am aware that even if the law were to sit there alone today, which could have happened if there had not been a change of government, something must be said very clearly: yes, we must also do something in this area, but as badly as the coalition has now proposed, but it is not necessary. There is no need for additional state scholarships for this category of people, just like that, and there is no need for priority treatment in solving the housing problem. It's already a little past the Youth you'd say it's a fly or too much. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u422	Thank you very much. Do you still want to discuss it? No, no, no. More? I'm opening an application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Please sign up. The first one has a word and right now he's the only magician. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u423	Your Honor! The dilemmas raised by this article are twofold. On the one hand, it is a matter of consistent respect for the principle of equality before the law. That is the essence of what we propose in this amendment and nothing else. They should all be the same before the Constitution and the law. If you are privileged to do so in any way, then ask those who have settled their status in the past period why they are now in a worse position. This is a perfectly legal absurdity. There is no state in this world and there is no legal system and not to tell me that the European Court of Justice has asked you to put those who have settled their status in accordance with current legislation in a worse position than any other. On the other hand, the essence of this story is what our country actually can do. You have only brought this country out of the crisis within a year of the time when the former government, assessed as extremely successful in Europe, has already brought it over the brink of bankruptcy. The latest OECD forecasts released today are catastrophic. New economic downturn, new red numbers, new lost jobs, new lost opportunities, that's what's at the heart of your policy, because you don't know anything else than [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u424	Amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u425	and then you try to divide it exactly to those groups that you want to put in a special position. [[...]] But with this article, with the amendment that we propose, do nothing but recognise the constitutional principle: before the law we are all the same and before the law we must all be equal and have equal access to justice. And that's all this is about. Things need to be aligned with the real possibilities of this country. The coin of money is gone, all those who have memories of once, accept it. Today he has to work the economy so that then he can do everything that's created together. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u426	Thank you very much. I'm opening a third round of explanations of voice. The application shall be made. The first one has the word, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u427	Thank you so much for saying that. I also agree with the fact that those of us applying anything in this country are treated equally, under the same conditions and that the goods on which we run are accessible to us under the same conditions. All I am asking is whether victims of political post-war violence have been given priority treatment in the exercise of certain rights or in the case of victims of war violence. She wasn't. No law on the correction of injustices in this country has imposed priority correction and priority rights in the enforcement of certain funds. The only priority given to victims, for example, political violence, was to prioritise them with their freedoms, to dispossess them of priority property, to prevent them from accessing public services and so on. We've got a whole bunch of cases. In this case, you've completely turned things around. Or take the example of a country in such a way or other way that it violates, say, the right of a single mother, a disabled person, a pensioner. In this case, when it receives this right, is it given priority in identical cases? It's not! If you accept, if this law is passed, you will have to borrow another five billion in the next five months. There is no government in this country after independence that would accept such an obligation in such a short time! In only six months, EUR 5 billion has been loaned by this government. The former, Pahorjeva, which was considered an extreme in debt, owed 8 billion in three years. Here you are successful and with the legislation you are adopting, we are going along the path of another five billion in the next few months.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u428	Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u429	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The amendment's proposal carries more traps. In addition to the already excluded two entitlements, there is also something that concerns me very much, namely, you are proposing that it reads: "... until inclusion and equal treatment in social protection programmes." If it is necessary to write "to equal treatment", then you would want to have discriminatory treatment. Perfectly, I use the word discriminatoryly because in legislation we also know cases of positive discrimination. We also use certain measures for vulnerable groups to facilitate access to certain things which, while not accessible on the same route, would be excluded from access. A group of deleted rights has been excluded for a different period of time. Therefore, in this case, in a number of cases, as for the vulnerable group, I stress, the proposed priority treatment is also proposed. However, they will have to meet all the other conditions that others have to meet in order to reach that fundamental right. I think it's easier to explain on the case of access to the apartment. It seems quite unacceptable to me that we meet again and again with such interpretation as human rights are only for the rich and for the good of time. However, access to human rights is not necessary for the poor, the affected, and when we are in poor condition. This is a fundamental issue of civilization and values, which we also like to refer to when we are so moved that we need to follow Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u430	Thank you very much. Explanation on behalf of Mrs Sonja Ramšak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u431	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will certainly support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because I believe that with the proposed solution you are actually creating first- and second-class citizens. My right of priority in this case, one and the other. Unfortunately, in the debate on the Committee itself, we have not received an answer to those questions, as you are now writing here, "to the same and priority treatment in resolving the housing issue." In what way will you find that some have consciously given up the possibility of buying an apartment? Some even sold their apartment rights when leaving Slovenia! I think that Mr Meh should know this very well, because we have a lot of these cases in Velenje, and this can be told by your fellow Ukrainians or people. On the other hand, I wonder how we can grant such rights today, and on the other hand, the Ministry of the Interior's portfolio purchases for 6,000 tyres of suspicious Asian origin and even for Providence, when we know that it needs top-notch tyres, we are buying something that is the worst, estimated by Adac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u432	Thank you very much. Please, let's focus on the amendment. He has a word to explain to the vote on his own behalf [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] [[...]] Yes, Mr Happy Meh, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u433	Today we're talking about amendments, this moment, and there's absolutely no reason for anyone to talk about apartments that happened at any location, any location. At the time, the people who sold the apartments had the right to sell it because otherwise they could not sell it, and it was their business that they could sell. Vice-President, please remind Members and Members that it is an explanation for the vote not to mention my name. Otherwise, I'll be happy to say every time it's not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u434	Thank you very much. I accept your warning. You may have noticed that I myself have intervened in order to speak about the amendment when someone responds to the explanation of the vote. Mr. Marian Pojbich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u435	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party because I am sure that this law or these articles in the law are again causing new injustices, and I am sure that no one in Slovenia wants it. At least in this situation, when the situation in the country is what it is. I will quote this article: "In addition to monetary compensation, under the conditions laid down by this law, the beneficiary is entitled to the following forms of just satisfaction: to payment of the contribution to compulsory health insurance, to inclusion and priority treatment" – priority treatment! – "in social protection programmes, to facilitate the exercise of rights from public funds, to a state grant, to equal and priority treatment in the resolution of the housing issue, to access to the educational system, to inclusion and to a priority" – once again, "to be addressed in cases of assistance for the inclusion of non-EU nationals in the cultural, economic and social life of the Republic of Slovenia." Therefore, from this we can very clearly understand everyone – so I have read this in particular – to try again a certain group of people to be privileged by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That's extreme, extremely irresponsible! It's extremely irresponsible! I don't understand how much longer we're gonna walk this way. I remember – I will only remind you of the following – when I have not been given a job in the Republic of Slovenia in Yugoslavia for several years. All who came from other republics had a priority right to housing, to work in Slovenia and so on. Are we going back to that time?Oh, my God! In perfect communism?Oh, my God! And exactly what is stated in this law will happen if this law is adopted in the same form as it is. This is unacceptable to its own Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u436	Thank you very much. We're going to the vote. Anyone else want a word? [[...]] I'm opening an application to explain my voice. The first and only one has the word, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u437	Thank you so much for saying that. I too will support the amendment to Article 15 which we propose. It also bothered me to give priority to someone, knowing what social problems we have in the country, how many people are coping with poverty; the results or data are always worse, the types before Karitas and the Red Cross are long, and now we will put these people in line. I think that, by regulating the status and by giving these people other options in addition to the compensation, that is, the other legitimate things that are listed here in Article 15 I am confident that they will get them. I don't know why they should be justified in getting them even the advantage; that is, in front of everyone else. I think that this provision is inconsistent with the constitutional provisions on equality, and therefore I have a problem with this. As I say, I will support an amendment that makes all of this possible, but it does not give these people the advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u438	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision, first of all in Article 15, to decide on the first amendment, i.e. the amendment of Article 15 of the SDS Group of Members. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of Article 22 of the SDS Group. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 22 becomes irrelevant. And at the same time. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment referred to in Article 2 to 15 becomes irrelevant. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group. The vote is under way. I'm closing the vote. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Groups of the Civil Code and DeSUS to Article 15. Note: The amendment is substantively excluded by the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats to Article 20. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to Article 20 becomes irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, he has the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u439	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Unfortunately, in the Group of Social Democrats of this amendment, two coalition partners cannot be supported. This is about the same justification as I said at the time of the SDS amendment to this Article. When we speak and refer to equality before the law guaranteed by the Constitution, we forget the simple fact that in laws we have a number of provisions where we give priority treatment to individual groups. Since the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups applies only to housing, I will only refer to legislation relating to housing. The rules allowing the acquisition of a non-profit apartment also contain Article 6, which deals with priority categories of applicants. It is said that there is already a possibility for particularly vulnerable groups, for particular groups of applicants, for non-profit housing candidates, there is a priority treatment. This priority is given to families with multiple children, families with fewer employees, young and young families, disabled persons, families with disabilities, long-term nationals who are homeless or are tenants, women and women with children, victims of domestic violence, persons who are victims of war violence and applicants who are important to the congregation in terms of their profession or activity. A further explanation can be found that the invitation to tender may specify which group referred to in Article 6 is indeed more important for those who sign off on non-profit dwellings in that case than for others. So, even more important among the important ones. This means that the group we are talking about today are deleted, entitled to compensation, must first meet all the conditions for them to run for a non-profit apartment. Then they get, just like the invitation to tender, a few extra points, like all those listed in Article 6, to run. And that, I think, and my parliamentary group, is a more appropriate solution than that proposed by the coalition partner side. That's why we won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u440	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice on behalf of the Group? In your own name? Dr. Vinko Gorenak in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u441	In order not to see that we are always against what the coalition proposes, we must say something; all that is reasonable is to be supported, although it understands this relatively little. Since this amendment is a reasonable amendment, it speaks of the fact that it will not have a specific advantage in assigning, handling and resolving applications for housing, but that they will be equal citizens, this amendment needs to be supported. We will, or I will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u442	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the second amendment, i.e. the amendment of the DL and DeSUS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 36. [[40 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 20. Since the amendment of the DL and DeSUS groups was adopted by 15. Article, the amendment of the PS and SD groups to Article 20 is irrelevant. We're moving on to Article 22. As the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 15 has not been adopted, the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 22 is irrelevant. We're moving on to Article 23. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 has not been adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23 is irrelevant. We move on to Article 24. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 has not been adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 24 is irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The proposal for a third hearing I apologize, there has been an amendment I am concluding the second reading of the bill and moving on to a proposal for a third reading of the law at the same meeting. [[...]] [[...]] I give the floor to the representative of the Government, here present to the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, because the Government is a bill-maker. You have the floor, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u443	Thank you very much. I propose that we also hold a third hearing at this meeting and adopt the law definitively, since we are late from 26 June in the light of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. At that time, the deadline for Slovenia to establish a compensation scheme under this judgment expired, namely the adoption of this law. We didn't do this, I'm not going to give up the reasons for this, I'm going to make my own priority marriage, we've prepared it quickly, we've sent it to the National Assembly, and it doesn't make sense now that we've been waiting another month. Because it is necessary to know that there are still hundreds of cases pending before the ECHR, and the adoption of this law is likely to mean that these charges will not be brought before the ECHR. However, the ECHR will, of course, still decide on the application for material compensation for six complainants. And that's what you expect to happen. In short, we propose that the law be adopted definitively at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u444	Thank you very much. The proposer proposed that the third hearing be held at the same meeting. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 25. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. A third consideration of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly on Thursday, 21. 11. 2013, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Political Parties under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2013 marked "new". We're moving on to Article 7. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 8, 10 and 12. If this amendment is not adopted, the remaining amendments will become irrelevant. Anybody want to explain their vote before they decide? If not, then we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 49. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. As the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 7 has not been adopted, the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 8 is irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the NSI, SDS and SLS to Article 8. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he does not wish, we are moving on to a decision.We are voting on the amendment of the NSI, SDS and SLS to Article 8. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 19. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 10. As the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 7 has not been adopted, the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 10 is irrelevant. We move on to Article 11 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 11. Anyone wants to explain their vote, if they don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're going to 12 o'clock. A member. As the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 7 has not been adopted, the amendment by the SDS Group to Article 12 is irrelevant. We're moving on to Article 15. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary coalition groups of Positive Slovenia, Social Democrats and the Democratic Party of Slovenian pensioners to Article 15. Anyone wants to explain their vote, if they don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 22. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 18. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 18. Anybody want to explain their voice? We're moving to the vote. We vote, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 18. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 22. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 22. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We vote on the amendment of Article 22 of the SDS Group. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 45. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The proposer has already proposed that the third review of the law be carried out at the same meeting. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the draft law proposed that the National Assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 21. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 21 November 2013, after the final vote. The services of the National Assembly will provide an overview of the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections and Referendums in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18 November. We move on to Article 6 and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. Anybody want to explain their voice? If he does not wish me to point out, this amendment is in substance linked to the amendment of Article 9 of the SDS Group. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 9 becomes irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the amendment of Article 6 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 to 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 9. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6 has not been adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9 is irrelevant. We're moving on to Article 10. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. Anybody want to explain their voice? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. The vote was 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 17. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17. Anybody want to explain their voice? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 23. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. Anybody want to explain their voice? Because he doesn't want to, we're going to make a decision. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 19. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of item 15 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Bill on Registration of Election Rights in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 18 November 2013. We move on to Article 4, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Anybody want to explain their voice? On behalf of the SDS Group, he shall have the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u445	Respectable, every citizen and every citizen must be assured by the State of Slovenia that they can exercise their rights in an accessible and easy way, regardless of where they are, within the borders of the state of Slovenia or around the world. Here, a measure is proposed in the basic text of the law, which is disproportionate, since it assumes that if one fails to take over the electoral material sent twice or fails to inform him that all notices are simply stopped and that it is in fact excluded from the electoral system. It can be re-entered and its own demand, provided it even knows that this is happening. In fact, here is one fundamental question: is there a proportionate measure that in some ways cuts those last ties between a citizen and a citizen abroad and a country of Slovenia. It would probably be in the interest of the State of Slovenia as a whole to strengthen these contacts, but not to cut them where it is unnecessary, because it is possible to do so with some others, not disproportionate means. For this reason, we propose that this part be deleted and that it buys time to find another solution that would allow records that are obviously not well-managed in our foreign representations, as well as within the country of Slovenia, to be properly regulated and then set up a different mechanism that will not happen, as the Minister has previously stated, that neither who is alive nor who is dead, and that is therefore inappropriately sent mail. Here it is a measure that must be proportionate and must be in favour of those concerned, that is, our citizens and citizens abroad, and in the interest of the country as a whole – and I say that the Constitution also requires it – to find solutions that enable them to maintain these ties, to strengthen them, but not to cut them where rationalisation objectives can be achieved also through significantly less radical means. That's why it's worth supporting our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u446	Thank you very much. Explanation on its own behalf. I'm opening the application. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u447	Thank you for your word. We're here, in my opinion, in the face of a similar problem as it was deleted. Here someone who does not respond to the call of the state to vote, and twice in a row, is simply erased from the record. If the state also wants to fulfil its obligations to its citizens, I think that this is a disproportionate measure and these citizens must remain on record, as for example deleted, which you are now returning in some special way. Every voter has the right to decide whether or not to vote. It may be decided five times in a row not to vote if it is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia; or every time. But I don't understand why we should take a solution here when someone else doesn't like it for a variety of reasons, maybe because he's decided to do so, delete it from the electoral pleader's record. I propose that you support and give these Slovenian citizens at least some satisfaction and some recognition, at least as you have previously granted to the so-called deleted. They didn't want any records, they didn't want each other, and now you're returning with rich compensation, and here people of Slovenian descent, you're deleting Slovenian citizens from the electoral beneficiaries' register. What Minister Virant proposes is harmful for the country, for Slovenian people outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia discriminatory, disproportionate regulation, unequal treatment of Slovenian citizens and I suggest that you do not do so in the law on registering electoral law. Mr Minister has some knowledge of constitutional law and I think it would be right for him to be aware of it and also in the laws he proposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u448	Thank you very much. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The first one has the word "magic." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u449	Thank you for your word. I don't know if my explanation of vote will hold up if the previous debates and explanations under the law are not due. We're only talking about sending materials, electoral materials, not changing electoral directories. No one will be removed from the electoral directory from the electoral rights register; only if he does not receive the material sent to him twice in a row from the country will he no longer be sent to the third. In connection with Article 17, it is also possible that any individual wishing to do so in a number of different places, from consular representations to administrative units, to the National Election Commission, may require that the fifteenth label, which tells him whether the material has been received or rejected, be deleted if he so wishes. Hence, there is no fear that those who have not accepted electoral material would be removed from the electoral directory. For this, legal arguments must be made, a material allowing such removal. Just a case, even if a wife or a husband tells her that she died or died and that they don't send any more material, it's not enough, but it has to be proved that the person died, and then it can be deleted from the record. That is why such an amendment cannot be supported, and there is not at all any permissive deception that could have been heard before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u450	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u451	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is very interesting to listen to the debate an hour ago and explain the voices and debate in the morning and now. Of course I'll support the amendment. What are we gonna do? We will re-create a record or within the record we will in some way mark Slovenian citizens, as it did with the records we had before 1992. You will do so, Mr Minister, you who are advocating for electronic elections in the future and have already voted in the past. Of course, today you will vote on your amendment – but what will we do to Slovenian citizens? You used the interpretation that this is not a delete from the directory and so on, but – how will you mark? How will you mark it? You're going to create a point or some kind of record with some voter who decided he wasn't going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u452	The Minister can't, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u453	Yes, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u454	He can't answer you – an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u455	He doesn't have to answer, he's already told me everything he thinks about it, I don't expect his answer. I'm talking to the other MPs. What are we gonna do? That some of our citizens will also be able to initiate procedures. They are violated by fundamental human rights, the right to love. They won't know that. Of course, this is hard for someone to listen to, I can very much believe that some Members of Parliament are having a hard time listening to this, but you will. And what will we do if someone sues us? What will we do if a Slovenian citizen, who will do so, sues us before the Court of Human Rights that he has been prevented from doing so? It is very interesting to hear how one side puts itself on one side and the other side, and you really put Slovenian citizens in an impossible position.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u456	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u457	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will, of course, support this amendment. The rejection of this amendment, colleagues and colleagues, means the closure of Slovenia for citizens and citizens living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it is about Slovenian citizens and citizens, because it is not about Croats. I just don't know why we're so restrictive, so strict or even stepmotherly to our people, to our voters. I will no longer ask the Minister, because I am not allowed to ask him now, but I am first in the debate on international comparisons, which country has an electoral record for electoral beneficiaries living outside the country in one way or another. The Minister did not give me an answer, which means that something stinks here in this solution or that solutions are not for the benefit of Slovenian voters, Slovenian citizens and citizens. Is one of the proponents – because, of course, the ministry has a big machine, I ask myself, because I can't do the other now, and you, my colleague and colleagues, whether someone might have turned the phone and called some voter in Canada and asked, "Hey, listen! We're preparing something here now, and if you don't get it twice, so if the election card doesn't reach you twice, then we won't send you for the third time. How do you take it?" Has anyone asked anyone, at least one in the world? Probably not. That is why this amendment needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u458	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič, explanation of voice in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u459	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, it seems unacceptable to me, and I would expect the Slovenian Democratic Party not to table this amendment to be tabled by the government coalition itself. This amendment urgently needs to be supported, because, in the opposite case, this unfair, unfair to citizens, to our people who have lived for years and years abroad. In view of the fact that I know this issue in detail, I have also warned the Committee on Foreign Policy several times, but only because things are being corrected, what is going on with the materials being sent. The problem is, because mail management is in some countries, I have a specific case from Canada when a person has approached me several times and we've intervened several times, he's even intervened in an administrative unit and he's given a legal address. However, there is a difference between the one in the record and the one that this customer gave in writing the street rather than the city or vice versa. In some countries, however, they also manage this by means of electronic devices. In short, it would be unfair for our people to do so, so that we no longer receive this material. This is a restriction on their ability to go and to exercise electoral rights. Colleagues and colleagues, you're not going to do that! If we ask this to the Commission on Relations with the Slovenians in Substitute and Around the World, I am sure that, as I stand here today, we would unanimously support this amendment on the Commission. Please do this for our people now.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u460	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Ramshak, you wanted to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u461	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Already in the introduction, I have pointed out in explanation of this amendment that, in fact, by not accepting this amendment from the Slovenian Democratic Party, you are again doing the wrong thing. In fact, some citizens and citizens, our citizens and citizens living abroad will be prevented from exercising their active and passive electoral rights. Let me read again what this Article states: "To publish the number of electoral beneficiaries, the composition of electoral directories and the issuance of electoral cards, only the information on voters, for whom all the complete data from the first to the eleventh point of paragraph 2 of this Article and" – what we want to delete – "has not been entered twice in the same address abroad by the failure of the service referred to in paragraph 15 of this Article." Dear colleagues, I don't think you've read all those who press "against" this paragraph.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u462	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Branisel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u463	Thank you very much. I will not personally support this amendment. Active electoral law means that it is being exercised in an active way. Some effort needs to be made, a shipment needs to be raised. We too are actively realized when we have to go to voters and so on. We probably also have cases where some of our citizens abroad may have been sending materials that have never been accepted and returned for more than 20 years. One more thing. Comparatively legal: no country in the world, according to our information, knows the system that election materials are sent by mail. It is also about removing bureaucratic barriers, unnecessary spending of money, and our citizens abroad have every opportunity, if they are as active as they are, that things are being repaired and that the material is not being returned by mail and that it is being received or reported by new data.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u464	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. Mr. Battelli, would you like to explain your voice? On behalf of the delegation, I suppose? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u465	This is supposed to be a technical law. However, it contains one article which is inherently political. In fact, it's just a political one that makes a precedent in our legal order. Following is a 1998 Constitutional Court decision, which we have already resolved in 2000, and will introduce criteria in Slovenia to determine the nationality of individual national communities. This is not the case in European legislation, at least if I knew not. By taking note of the adoption of this law, we are aware of what may happen with regard to the implementation of the entire set of national rights in Slovenia from here on out. This proposal is such that it does not take full account of the decision of the Constitutional Court, since the Constitutional Court binds certain criteria only in cases of abuse. So the criteria are necessary to prevent abuse. This law states that all who wish to enter the electoral directory must go through a certain grate through which this membership is determined. So, in a way, access to justice is limited by this procedure. In addition, it is the authorities of the national community themselves who are somehow placed in the process of carrying out this work. I'm talking about right-holders, not those who might be abused. Such cases have not been recorded in our case law, so this solves a problem that has not occurred in reality. Why we're doing this, we don't get it. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Then I'll proceed on my own behalf. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u466	Thank you very much. We move on to an explanation of vote in our own name. Here you go, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u467	Thank you. There's something very strange going on. This Article 12 has nine points and is one of the longest in marriage. At the end of point 8, it reads: "If the conditions for the recognition of electoral rights are..." and so on, because it has to be repeated every time that they are citizens, although this has already been resolved in all previous articles for all other people. Therefore: if the conditions of the member are not met, the member shall not be granted the right of registration and the Commission shall issue a decision accordingly. This means that a member does not meet the conditions, which is contradictory already in what is supposed to be a clear legal norm. If someone is a member, it is clear that they meet the conditions. This means that those who do not belong will be able to sign in and there will be no complaints. Only members can then complain. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u468	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 31. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Bokovic, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenka Bratušek asked Mr Franz Bogovic about the consequences of the adopted Real Estate Tax Act. Here you go, Mr. Franz Bogovich, you have the floor. In your name or in your group?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u469	On behalf of the Group of Members. I asked the President of the Government yesterday about the consequences of the introduction of a real estate tax. The answers she gave me were in some way more of an accusation, an attack on those who ask questions. That is why I have reassuranced that I do not really understand the consequences of this law. I have learned that we have been left alone in the Slovenian People's Party, which opposes this law. I can say that Mr Branko Meh, Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, who co-instigates the signing of the petition, and all others who have signed as co-instigators, are still among those who oppose this law. From yesterday to today, more than 500 of those who oppose this law are on the Internet. I heard yesterday that I only defend our mayors. I thought only those who were elected on the list of the Slovenian People's Party. I don't know, yesterday I understood that the Kori mayor, who, I think, is a lot closer to your Mr Jankovic than we are, opposes this law, even makes a constitutional judgement. Mr Fistravec is not our mayor either, because last year's movement, which was well organised, took our mayor out of the municipality of Maribor. I have further heard that four tractors walked before Parliament on a trip, each with 150 000 to 200,000 euros in value. Yesterday, I already warned Madam Prime Minister that she obviously knew very little about agriculture, and I said, according to a flat-rate assessment, that not all of them were necessarily worth that much together. I must say that a whole series of calls have been made by angry farmers who really point out this arrogant attitude towards this area, and today I think the Prime Minister will find out that all these four tractors together are worth about 65 to 70,000 euros. There are still a number of other reasons why I really think it is right to talk about this problem. We see that there is a very large number of difficulties in implementing this law, and I propose that you support this procedural proposal and that the next meeting discuss the consequences that this law will have on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u470	Thank you very much. We can move on to decision-making. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Explanation. Please, if anyone else has an explanation in their own name to sign up for an explanation, because next time it's too late, I won't allow it. The first is Mr Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u471	Madam Vice President! In this explanation, I will take advantage of one opportunity, namely that sentence of yours, "... next time I will no longer allow..." would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure. However, since I am the President of the Business Commission, I warn you not to do this because we would be doing the opposite, and that would not be good. Now why am I going to support the proposal made by my fellow Member, France Bogovic, regarding the fact that the President of the Government further explains the answer to the question put by the Member States? Maybe that's when the president of the government will tell you when she'll be taxing tractors like me here in the picture, but this tractor I have here is called Pershing 80, 25 meters. Many of our, not many, some of our citizens have such tractors, with Pershing 80 they can't drive around the Slovenian Parliament, but they drive for much more money. These Pershingi 80 are wasting, spending [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u472	Self-explanation of the vote [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u473	What are you nervous about? What are you nervous about? These are your constituents! [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] You won't tax them, but farmers would destroy them. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u474	We move on to the next explanation of vote. Mr. Lucky Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u475	Surely we are not nervous, we have certainly talked about this very much, and it is not right that we are now taking advantage of this opportunity to explain our voices, and we have been talking about this for hours and hours. It is, of course, that I have already voted and I have objected to a public debate and to those who know what it means, say, even knowing the hour and the performance just like that, I apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u476	Thank you very much. Dr. Jelusic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u477	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also vote against having an additional debate on the Government's response to the issue raised by the real estate law or the Real Estate Tax Act, because the President answered the question very well yesterday. In addition, we discussed this issue some 17 hours ago, and in that long-standing debate there were many opportunities to raise the same issue, which was raised by yesterday's President of the Government. I think that now we should wait for this law to work and ask questions about how this law will affect or impact on property in the future on our people later when we see the first results of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u478	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. We had already voted before, so I said I wouldn't allow it next time, not that I wouldn't allow an explanation. Certainly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Mags. Alenke Bratušek on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of Anybody want to explain their voice? Mag. Andrej Shircelj, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u479	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yesterday, I asked a few questions about where Slovenia is actually going according to the forecasts made by international organisations, both by the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and, of course, by the OECD today. Unfortunately, all these forecasts for Slovenia are negative, one of the few countries with negative economic growth in Europe, the number of unemployed is increasing, consumption is decreasing, which means that such a tax and debt policy does not lead to the right direction. In particular, I have asked the question of indebtedness, i.e., in the last period, Slovenia is excessively indebted, and on Friday it actually owed 4.84% at an interest rate, which is more than or less than that of Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and is close to the interest rate that Botswana owes. I did not get an answer to this question; in fact, yesterday there was no answer to any question, but even less to the question of why we are actually in debt if the Minister of Finance has said otherwise that we do not need to be in debt at this time. Why we were in debt in a closed market, which means that only one person gave a billion and a half or bought bonds for a billion and a half at such a high interest rate. The question and debate on where Slovenia is actually going and what will happen to its families, how much we will burden them, is crucial for the present and the future. For this reason, I propose a debate on the economic situation and macroeconomic indicators in Slovenia, and I think that this would also be very good for education, as, after all, the President of the Government has replaced and compared three-year bonds with ten-year bonds, which, of course, is not acceptable in the financial sector. This is also why I propose a public debate on economic indicators in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u480	Thank you very much. Self-explanatory, I'm opening the application. The first word is Mrs. Romana Tomc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u481	Thank you very much. I, too, will support this decision and I will vote to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government, in fact on the answer that was not there. The President spoke about everything else, but she did not only answer the questions raised. And to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, while we were discussing the so-called real budget, when you accepted the property tax rise, when we froze our pensions, the government was in charge of an additional billion and a half at that time, and next year we will pay seventy million euro of additional interest only on the basis of this debt. The government has committed itself to a closed market, sold bonds to one buyer, did not go to an open market, and it is not true what the Government argues that Slovenia can peacefully commit itself to international markets. Why didn't she do it if it was true? Why do we have to pay a higher price? This will be paid by all of us together, this will be paid by those who are today included in the Youth Scheme, which was previously mentioned by the President of the Government and was very proud of it. But you know what? This scheme for young people is only EUR 9 million, and these same young people will pay €70 million for interest. All of us and these young people have the right to know where we owe ourselves, why we owe ourselves the way we did. And of course; if in this House we can talk about many, even sometimes irrelevant things, I think it is necessary and necessary to talk about such important matters as we owe.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u482	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrei Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u483	Your Honor! I myself will support this proposal for a decision, which, according to my assessment, we are talking about the most important issue. This is said to be what the current politicians, the decision makers will leave to future generations; not least to our children, but probably to some of you already have a grandchild. You will leave them, we will be the country's enormous debts and about a year or two billion euros in interest; only interest per year. Instead of investing this billion euro in new jobs, in conditions for better management, even in tax cuts, we will be paying them off for this headless debt. This debt is literally headless. No one could explain why we were in debt for a billion and a half these days. In fact, we know that for three billion euros there are approximately deposits in Slovenian banks, that the budget is actually closed by some March next year, and – what have we now committed to one and a half billion? Why didn't we wait for the bank's stress tests to figure out the full size of this hole? Or is it just a prediction that in a week or two, our heads will still be aching and let's get in debt before it costs as much as it costs? Interest on these three-year bonds on an interest rate of 4,84% is good EUR 70 million. In three years it is 220 million euros; it is more than an annual financial recovery of the real estate tax! It's huge numbers. And, Your Honor, if anything, we need to talk about these issues in this House. Will we continue to increase public spending and at the same time owe future generations? This is a wrong policy, a headless policy, leading to the abyss, and it is right that Parliament is also discussing and, last but not least, making a decision on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u484	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u485	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if anything, we should discuss this very subject. For this reason, I support my colleague Shirtzl's proposal and I think it is right that this Parliament knows what this country is in charge of. All we could learn in those days was that we owed ourselves not because we needed this money, but because we proved that we could be in debt. Such evidence, however, is said to have cost us €38 million for the brokers' commission alone, according to some estimates. Crazy numbers! It seems to me to be an unacceptable and unworthy way to deal with this national council, that we must not know where we are in charge. Therefore, I think that the debate on these matters is still absolutely necessary, so that these things need to be discussed and not thrown under the rug. In the National Assembly, we are often fighting for insignificant commas, for a thousand euros, while we are working for billions, as if these are unnecessary debates, that we do not need to talk about these things and that we should not even know anything. I strongly oppose this and therefore ask you to support the debate on these things and on such topics as are truly crucial for future generations, because this is about how much and how we will burden future generations.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u486	Thank you very much. Any other wishes? I'm going to open up opportunities to explain my voice. Explanations to the voice. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u487	Thank you for your word. The debt we are talking about and should talk about – that is, the Prime Minister's response, which has practically said nothing about who they agreed to borrow, who gets interest over 200 million by the time we have to return 2016, and why it happened overnight. Was the Government afraid of any report from the European Commission and at least the reserve had to be provided in case? Minister Cufer said that we do not need money until April 2014. Also, the Prime Minister said at Odessa that we have taken a loan for the reserve, just in case, so just in case, we will pay 210 euros in interest. We read somewhere today that someone got 36 million commissions for this. So, once again, I wonder if the government was afraid of what report would come. To talk about the financial markets being open to us while you're doing it in a closed process, so it's already agreed, is making fun of people. Read some of the comments that people have written below. So here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna take one credit to show that we can keep poofing. Would it not be better to show that we do not have to continue to be indebted? Wouldn't you rather do what we have to do so we don't owe each other? The PM said we wouldn't draw on the bank's rehabilitation fund, because then we'd have to accept other conditions. In any case, we'll have to, if not today, tomorrow. Therefore, it would be much better for us to borrow at lower interest rates and not so burden the next generation.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u488	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u489	I will support the proposal for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. But the reasons are as follows. Up until now, it has been considered that the Pahor government was the one most rapidly indebted in the history of this country. This government owes itself three times faster. In just seven, eight months she owed 5 billion, Pahor’s government was 8 billion in three years. In April of the month, when the new three-billion-dollar debt tournament is in place, the government will reach the three-year level of credit of the Pahor government. The second reason is that we owe ourselves at the highest daily cost. We don't need the money, but let's buy it at the most expensive price that's in the market right now. I think it's completely irrational! And the third reason, if the state doesn't need money, if the government doesn't need money to service the budget, then this money is meant to be stolen because we don't need it otherwise. Expenses and thefts. And there's obviously a new wave of crooks ahead of us that will collect this loaded money and move through the controlled liquidations of both banks, this is called the Factor Bank and Probanke, for any other invitation to tender to Stank Stepišnik and the company, etc. In short, the President of the Government has a duty to explain why she bought something we don't need; why she bought it at the highest daily prices if it could be substantially cheaper. She also said that money is available, that money is available and why it is avoided in the event that we receive significantly cheaper money, control of external institutions. It is avoided because it is obviously intended to spend this money in an untransparent, unclear, illegal way. I'll support the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u490	Thank you very much. Mr. Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u491	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would be very happy to have more Members sitting here who have left the hall in a mass way at a time when some people have volunteered to explain their voice, but now they are talking rudely and distracting us who want to discuss and talk, and showing how they feel about what they want to discuss. We would like to discuss this and we would like to know this and, of course, the Slovenian public where the Slovenian government has committed itself and how much it has committed itself. This is a legitimate question, not only on the part of Madam Vice-President, but we could guarantee peace in the Chamber, please, because I am very disturbed by the way some people are knocking in the right corner. [[...]] Madam Vice-President, we could guarantee peace, please, so that we do not chat in the Chamber at this time when other Members can speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u492	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u493	They don't need to be interested in the subject, but I'm interested in it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u494	You may proceed, Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u495	and many citizens are interested in what we are committed to, what this money will be spent on, and why we are in debt in a closed market. [[...]] It may also have to be explained that if the Government estimates that the wider Slovenian public should not know – no problem. All Members have the right to have access to all the highest levels of secrecy, to close the meeting and to explain to us where the Government is in charge and why it is in charge of such sums. There is no problem, only Members are expecting us because people are asking us on the ground why we are in debt and how much longer we will be in debt. This debate is very important and I will therefore support this proposal. However, it seems that support against this proposal will be about as great as that of the chairs on the right hand side of me now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u496	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u497	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will, of course, support this proposal for a decision. Above all, for an important reason, because Madam President of the Government is speaking one thing and he is doing something completely different. The fact is that macroeconomic indicators show the actual situation in our country, and Madam President of the Government is saying things that are not holding. As we look at it, economic growth is falling this year, also forecasted for next year. We are practically on the tail or the worst country, not only in the euro area, but also in the wider region. Businesses, craftsmen entrepreneurs, fall down every day when a small enterprise collapses, medium-sized enterprises also lower wages in those companies that are still standing on the market, tax spasms do not give up and, ultimately, the country is being over-indebted. [[...]] And he owes it in an absolutely unnecessary way! This last one-and-a-half debt; for a billion-and-a-half credit in three years, Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers will pay 225 million euros – only interest. Who in this country can afford such a thing? That's a quarter of a billion euros for a loan that we're going to pay off for three years! And that's what this government has allowed, and this coalition has allowed it! And such a policy is advocated in this House! What will remain of our children, our grandchildren? Almost everything has already been lost, and the government has committed this country in battles for seven, eight months for five billion euros. And Mrs Bratušek is saying this: a successful government, a socially just government, a government fighting for social justice. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u498	Thank you very much. Mr. Hear, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u499	Thank you for your word. Good evening to all who are in the hall, as of course to those who are outside it. The government's response mainly suggests that it is lofty, arrogant and that there is no excessive knowledge about the foundations of the economy. When the President of the Government speaks so much about young people and the so-called Youth Guarantee mechanism, I would also like to say, as a youth representative, that he should stop molesting young people for his own pianological purposes. This indebtedness of left-wing governments and life on a high foot in the past has led to every newborn today receiving €11,000 of pouf. Given how fast the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government is doing this, we can expect every newborn to receive €15 000 in the coming year. Now I ask you: Do you think this is a policy that is friendly to young people and to children and to future generations? I don't think so. The EUR 9 million we will receive for the Youth Guarantee mechanism is just a pure piarian candy that will have no real impact. Given how we owe ourselves, how we owe young people and future generations, I don't know why you even hope to talk about this, President of the Government. Since the policy of the government of Alenka Bratušek is exclusively at the growth of the company of Minister Stepišnik and preserves the current agony, I will support the proposal for a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u500	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Let's just take it a little longer. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u501	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll support my colleague's proposal. It's spreading. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it would be good to hold a debate on the Government's response to the parliamentary question of colleague Andrej Shirtzl; even if the meeting is closed, perhaps the debate will be even more qualitative. For we, who are representatives of the people here, are likely to know and be able to know the real and true answers to many of the questions that we have already asked here this evening. For we do not know what has happened that President Alenka Bratušek says that there has been an absolute reversal. For we do not know where the reasons are, as she says, for the first time in years we are among the five best countries, only Germany and Estonia are ahead of us, behind us in the company of the Netherlands and France. And when I read the European Commission's opinion on the 2014 budget plan of the Republic of Slovenia, I see no Netherlands, Germany, Estonia and so on. All I see is Slovenia. Look, in this covert case, some secret government debt of 1.5 billion euros has been well earned here, I suppose. Someone bought bonds that must have a good rating. He could have received money, for example, from the ECB for a 2% interest rate, for bonds he would have a premium of 4.85. Do you know how much that is? That's in the absolute number of 42 million. And then the commission that my colleague Tonin was talking about, we're at 80 million. It is therefore necessary to open a debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u502	Thank you very much. Even Mr. Franz Breznik wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u503	Thank you very much. I wouldn't answer because I can see that some people are already in a hurry to go home, but still. I support the opening of my colleague Shirtzl's proposal to open a public debate, because yesterday, after all the statements made by the President of the Government, which I have really listened to with care, I must admit that I was appalled. But I was appalled in one sphere that the President of the Government did not separate three-year-old and ten-year-old bonds from the cameras. She talked about the statistics of the last debt and compared them to the then-debted Janša government when the government sold the ten-year bond on the US market. And that's what she compared. So I hope those who listen to us will believe. Three-year bonds at the moment Austria is selling 0.25%, Germany 0.21%, Bulgaria 1.2% and so on, Croatia, which is not a member of the Euro Group 4.05% and Romania, to which we could never compare, 4.1%. And we're bragging that we could get $4.84%! It's such a delusion to the public! And then compare this with the 10-year bonds that Germany also sells for 3% and a few percent at the moment. I can say that I'm truly appalled, I'm really worried that the policy you're taking has no economic basis in any theory, except that you want to destroy the country. On the one hand, the Government has not adopted any reform programme, nor one with which it could somehow demonstrate, before any public presentation of this reform programme, and on the other hand, prices of these bonds or debts would likely fall. It's totally out of place with every logic! Here I am concerned and I ask that this debate open to the public to discuss, in particular, the economic policy of the Government, what the plan is. I don't see a plan here except for the economic collapse of our country next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u504	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Moving on to the next, third point. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. Mr Dejana Židan and Minister of Finance Dr Uroš Čufer on the question of the future of agriculture by Mr Franz Breznik. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Breznik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u505	My question to Minister Jew was one of the ones I get from the field where I face it every day. This is how people, especially in northeastern Slovenia, can survive in the field of agriculture. What are the priorities of those involved in agriculture? Look, this is the same story as the Brother's, you can't believe it. The Minister speaks something in the camera about some self-sustainment, and on the other hand is the Vice-President of the Government, on the other hand you raise VAT, including VAT on food, Slovenian food is not the cheapest, and it will cost even more, with VAT raising. Then you raise a whole series of rates, you give a real estate tax. See, that's impossible! [[...]] Slovenian farms have an average size of 6.5 hectares – they cannot survive. This is worrying: something to say and something else to do. On the other hand, we buy more than 1.5 billion food from imports, so for 1.5 billion food Slovenia still imports at the moment, and then we say nothing is done. All the measures taken by the current agricultural policy are going to destroy this sector. On the other hand, they say that the agricultural minister is for all farmers — which farmers, I ask, for that one Premur megakt? For who? For those farmers I represent in the Slovenian Gorica, in the municipalities of Lenart, Jurovski Dol, the Council of Trojica and so on, he does not represent them because they are not interested. You also have solutions in real estate law that are not suitable for these farms. These are higher-lying farms, with a different position, heavy processing, more expensive processing. And that's impossible! On the other hand, you raise the cadastral income of smaller vineyards, which were some interesting Slovenian mountains, which could also be tourist attractions in the future. He didn't do anything here either! It harms agriculture and is literally a gravedigger of agriculture. And saying something to the camera, doing something completely different, that's what I'm personally worried about as an MP. If someone really represents some interests, then I hope that he will be able to respond to one of the debates I have proposed. Together with Bratuškova, let them tell you how you plan to save this country and, above all, agricultural policy, as far as the Minister's department is concerned. That's what I'm worried about. I believe the rest of you get that kind of information. I believe that even those who live far from the Ljubljana bypass will see what is happening in Slovenia. Even those who come from high-mountain areas where high-mountain farms are, where there is also a problem, how to keep them, how to survive in the coming months or even weeks. I think it is worrying that there must be such a debate if there is at least another possibility for everyone here representing people to realize that we will not survive. Talk about self-sustainment, talk about Slovenian food, promote Slovenian food, and work on measures that will destroy the Slovenian farmer, I think it is unsustainable for a long time and this debate will develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u506	Thank you very much. Is there any other explanation for the voice? Mrs. Novak, you have a chance to explain your voice. Please be patient in the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u507	I support this proposal for a debate on agriculture, because agriculture is of strategic importance for Slovenia, and self-sustainment is certainly extremely important. I therefore believe that such a debate is necessary. In particular, we would also invite the President of the Government to explain to us how such a large amount of profits can be made so that as many farmers as possible could obtain tractors costing between 150 and 200 000 euros, which the President of the Government has talked about – so very humiliating to farmers, that farmers have tractors for luxury, not for easier to do their jobs. I support the debate on the state of agriculture in Slovenia because agriculture is of strategic importance, for example, they are aware of this in Switzerland, which is a rich country, because they know that even if we are rich, we cannot eat gold, but we need agricultural crops to survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u508	Thank you very much. I would really like to ask that there is little peace in the Chamber when we explain our vote that we can end this work as soon as possible and move to a vote on this decision. Is there any other desire to explain your voice? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 25 votes against 43 Members and Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. The de facto Jew on the question of Zvonk Laha regarding double taxation of agricultural land. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 44 Members and Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of mags. Andrej Širclja in connection with new taxes and collection of taxes on the basis of special actions of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Shircelj, you have an explanation for your vote. On behalf of the Group of Members or in its own? Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u509	Thank you very much. I asked Minister Cuffer a question about the efficiency of tax collection. Why? Because of the public presence today of public tax checks by certain taxpayers, they are once the guests, secondly the florists, the third time the volcanoers. These tax checks are, of course, accompanied by television cameras in order to make some effect of intimidation. Given that the tax inspectors involved in these checks, of course, go to a restaurant, eat or drink coffee, and spend some tax money, it is particularly important for us how this money is actually spent and what is the effectiveness of these checks. Why? In view of the fact that the State had collected EUR 118 million from inspections in the first ten months of last year, according to the first ten months of 2012, in the first ten months of this year, it is said that the State had collected EUR 88 million from inspections, with many more people working in these inspections and that, as a result, it had been a smaller inspection in other areas or it was not such an intensive inspection. In other words, all these actions bring less than they did in the same period last year. I would like to point out that I am comparing here a period of time, which means that certain seasonal impacts have been excluded, and therefore the Minister of Finance has not answered the question of what is the effectiveness, what is the tax collection strategy and what is the aim of this. For this reason, I propose that a debate be held on the response of the Minister of Finance to this question and that the effectiveness of the Tax Administration, particularly in the field of inspections, be clarified.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u510	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. I'm opening the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 44. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Viszak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of mags. Andrej Visiak concerning the reorganisation of administrative units and customs and tax administrations. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u511	Thank you very much. In the parliamentary procedure, we have received a law on the so-called financial administration, where the Customs Administration and the Tax Administration are expected to join together into a single financial administration. The law also has Article 9, which states that the areas of future financial administrations are regulated by a regulation. Several other articles of the law also refer to specific regulations under the law, on the uniforms of this financial instrument, on the carrying of arms and I do not know what, and this law is accompanied by all sub-legislative acts other than this regulation, which would say how many future financial administrations will be in that country. [[…]] Indeed, it is very important that the existing structure and territorial distribution of these institutions do not break down, this means for Slovenia, including for Posavje, where I come from, jobs. Of course, it would be bad if the reorganization of the financial administration also took place when certain state institutions move away from the regions and move to larger centres. From Minister Cuffer, I wanted to know how much, after these new financial administrations, will follow the proposal of the current regional division of Slovenia, namely, Slovenia has 12 statistical and 12 development regions, and in my opinion this is the minimum number of future territorial distributions of all state institutions. I am pleased that I also raised this issue a month ago to Minister Virant that Minister Virant has given me an opportunity to study and follow this proposal when dividing the so-called administrative districts. However, I believe, my fellow Members, that this is a first-class political issue, what will be the province's division of this country, how will we also reorganise the other state institutions, that this is not only a matter of reorganisation of these institutions, but also of a serious political issue of the future division of Slovenia into the provinces, so I strongly oppose the violation of these institutions from the previous statistical regions before the new regional division takes place in Slovenia. Since I did not get the right answer from Minister Cuffer, he did not even tell me any number, I suggest that we discuss this at a future meeting and that we also turn away from this discussion from future ambitions so that, I don't know, tomorrow the Department of Health Insurance wants to abolish units, tomorrow the Institute of Pensions, thirdly the Geodetic Administration and so on. In short, I think that this discussion can bear fruit and that is why I propose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u512	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. I'm opening the vote. I'm closing the vote. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We're moving to the next point. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will set up a meeting on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stanka Stepišnika and Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anje Kopač Dark on the question of mag. Andrej Visiak in relation to rising unemployment and fewer and fewer new jobs. Please state your reasons for your vote in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u513	Thank you very much. I asked the Minister of Stepišnik and, of course, the Minister of Labour, which will be the systemic measures at horizontal level that will ensure some economic conversion or a slightly lower drop in economic activity and consequently economic growth. All I learned from him was that he'd make this and they'd call. Of course, once I see that his companies like to apply for these calls, I understand why he is a minister, and I see that the coalition is becoming increasingly clear about why some ministers are in this government. Instead of taking care of a favourable business environment, all economic operators shall discuss and agree on such a different invitation to tender. I think that this discussion, which I propose, would require answers in particular, and also of course, to the purely simple question: Will the future economic policy and policy of creating new jobs be aimed at creating a favourable business environment for all companies with lower taxes, with less red tape, by exceeding credit crunches and the like, or will we impose taxes, further weaken the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and then channel this money or a limited part of it through calls to friends or even to our own companies? I think this discussion is necessary. As a result, there has been an increasing number of unemployed people. Since there are no new jobs, young people have no place to work and are in the Employment and Home Office with their parents. We do not benefit from active employment policy measures if we do not have jobs for these people. Therefore, these issues are still important for the future and I therefore propose a public debate and, of course, I will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u514	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. I'm starting the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. I'm closing the vote. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure and Space Sam Omerzel to the question of Mr Zvonk Černač on investment projects. Here you go. you have an explanation for the vote. In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u515	On behalf of the Member State [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u516	On behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u517	We will, of course, support the debate on this issue in the framework of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. In this light, I asked the minister where the price estimate for the second track was from 400 million to 700 million and 750 million, respectively. I asked him why we would not halve all the other investment projects currently under way and then not have any problems with funding these projects in 2014 and beyond. Of course there was no answer. There was also no response to what this price split assessment was based on, nor was there any response to which level of documentation is currently formally adopted with regard to the second track. In my view, only the pre-investment design of 2010 is formally adopted on the second track, where the value of this investment at current prices is estimated at EUR 899 million, of course taking into account 2% of the lower VAT than today, and the draft investment programme, where this price is a billion 411 million, is being prepared. It must be said that this assessment is at the level of PGD projects and the previous assessment was based on an idea project. Therefore, no answer is given on what basis an assessment is given that this investment can be halved. There was also no answer why the Minister did not act specifically in a particular case where he could choose the contractor for half the lower price. The car plate manufacturer, which he selected by decision of 31 July this year, chose for a little less than €13 million, although he had a competitive offer of €6.5 million at the table, is said to be half the lower price and has not been selected. It was eliminated, despite the fact that it is a manufacturer that produces significantly more than the selected operator of these articles, which is a global actor, produced for the European and global market. Finally, in the light of this debate, it is necessary to answer the question of why no additional measures are being taken to modernise the Divača-Koper line with a view to further increasing the capacity of the track, which have been professionally processed and have been identified in the context of this task, so that it can be compared with a relatively small input, in particular by comparing it with the investment in the second track, the existing capacity from 72 trains per day and the future 82 trains per day, by the end of 2015 to increase to 103 trains per day. So in this debate it would be good to get answers to these questions, because then we might also find a sample of how to halve the value of the project and thus not have any difficulties in the investment area in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u518	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision, opening a vote, voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 25 votes against 46 Members and Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, to the question of Mr Žnidar, on the question of the matter of the question of the question of the Republic of Slovenia's compliance with regional development. You want an explanation of the voice? In your own name? Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u519	Ladies and gentlemen, I myself have proposed that the reply of Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, be discussed. My question was: Will municipalities even be able to settle their obligations with a whole range of new measures taken by this government and thereby threaten regional coherent development in the Republic of Slovenia? Measures that financially weaken local self-government are something: The Law on Community Financing reduces funds mainly for rural municipalities and strengthens municipalities, which is said to create dedicated centralism of large municipalities, reduces funds for investments around 70 million annually. This is said to weaken the part of the dispersed economic momentum that has been very successfully run by the municipalities in Slovenia itself. And last and, of course, as a great financial burden and a blow to the municipalities is a property tax, for the municipalities own quite a lot of real estate, for which they will now pay the tax, and this will weaken the municipalities very financially. This also jeopardised their actual implementation of those fixed tasks and the implementation of those projects that they have already carried out; that is to say, ongoing projects are thus at risk for future management under such measures. Of course, the Minister didn't answer my questions. I also wonder if he is well aware that local self-government belongs to his department, and I want a public debate to be held on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u520	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 46. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on ensuring respect for the constitutional principle of equality before the law. You want an explanation of the voice? In your own name? On behalf of the MP? Here you go, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u521	Thank you very much. In my question to the Member States, I asked myself who is overseeing independent state institutions, in particular the Anti-Corruption Commission, while also quoting the research task of the National Assembly of the latest date of a few days. The findings are quite clear in this research task. There is no Commission to prevent corruption in any language of the European Union. In other words, all other EU countries do not have a similar body, such as the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in Slovenia. Even though we were prevented in 2004 and then in 2011, how do we have to have an independent state authority, because this is Greece's requirement, because this is what the OECD requires and I don't know what else. In short, they lied to us. Let's see what's going on in Europe. The advisory bodies for the preparation of corruption policies have: Andorra, Armenia, Cyprus, Georgia, Germany, Slovakia. Then there is another group of countries that have some independent authorities within ministries, as a rule, internal or judicial. Such countries are Belgium, Estonia, Iceland, Italy, Norway, Romania, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Austria. The third group of countries characterised by least corruption, such as Sweden, including Denmark, do not have anything in this area. So, the conclusion and my argument is, if you don't have a commission to prevent corruption, it's the least corruption. But it's not like that. However, we have another group of countries, which are not all European, almost only two, which remain outside the European Union or three, but have a similar body, such as the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption in Slovenia, with different powers. These are Albania, Croatia, Latvia, Macedonia and Serbia; and, of course, Slovenia. But none of these people have the authority to say that there is a risk of corruption, the possibility of systemic corruption, the risk of corruption, the act has signs of corruption. There are no such institutions in the European Union and they do not know them. Therefore, I think it is imperative that we discuss this in the National Assembly. I think I'm running out of time, anyway. Look, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Minister replied to me that there is a judicial branch of authority over it that can judge the products of this Commission. However, the problem is that this cannot be done by the judicial branch of power. Why can't he? I'll explain it on my own, so I'll check in again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u522	Thank you very much. You have an opportunity to explain your vote in your own name. You'll probably have to wait a little longer because of the microphone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u523	Look why. The Commission shall act arbitrarily and therefore the court shall not be able to decide on its work or its products. Let's take a look at the case. The employment of Mr Tank's son, Janša's daughter, was declared a corrupt act. When it came to the employment of Mr Masleš's son, first in court and then in the Municipality of Ljubljana or its institution – the eclipse, the darkness. There is no commission to prevent corruption. How, then, should a court decide on such a product? He can't make decisions about darkness and darkness. Let's look ahead, years ago, the anti-corruption commission dealt with corruption in my environment where I live. In fact, the mayor ordered a bouquet of flowers. He ordered it from the only flower shop there. And this was declared a corruption act because the owner is a saint. So you should go to Celje for those three carnations or four. That was corruption. On the contrary, EUR 350 000 to Mr Stepišnik and the new application that follows is not corruption. It's not corruption! And they say that in two days after it came out. You know, that's the duality of this business. Then you have to say a few more things like that that come into your eyes. The office where I was sitting alone or sitting now, Mr Virant, was purchased for EUR 38 000: tables, nothing else. He bought Mr. Lightener. Has anyone checked? Nobody. So it's not corruption, no. In short, if I conclude, there are many reasons why we should once discuss what is happening with these independent authorities, including the Information Commissioner, who declares something illegal, and then it turns out that it is not. The debate on this issue in the National Assembly is therefore absolutely necessary, so I propose it and I propose it and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u524	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 to 45. [[She was voted on 24th.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, to Tomaž Lisca's question on the implementation of the criminal and disciplinary responsibility of officials employed in the national administration or administration of local communities. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for 23, for 46. [[It was voted for by 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Dr Gregor Virant, and the Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cufer, to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik in connection with the course of negotiations with the public sector trade unions. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for 23, for 46. [[It was voted for by 23.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment of Magi. On the question of hunting for the special purpose of Compass, Mr. Zvonka Lah. Here, you have an explanation for the voice. In your own name? On behalf of the House of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u525	Thank you very much. In the most north-eastern part of Slovenia in the region of Gorička and in the area of some of the poorest municipalities in Slovenia there is a state hunting ground with a special purpose, namely Kompas Peskovci. In this state hunting area, game overcrowded, mainly deer and wild pigs, causing increasing damage, and compensation is not proportionate to the damage caused, so the citizens there set up a civil initiative, collected a thousand 357 signatures and sent Prime Minister Židan to take action in the spring. Since the Minister has not acted, they have asked us Members to try to resolve the matter, because this state hunting is primarily private-owned land — over 95% — and it is such a damage that farmers find it difficult to survive on these farms. They propose to abolish state hunting and transfer to the management of a local hunting family that will significantly reduce to a normal level, a population of game and itself to compensate these farmers. The country will not have the cost of four operators working there to manage and prepare this trophy game so that comrades from Ljubljana will come to shoot. I think it's the rest of the previous system and it's time for this to go away. Therefore, I propose that the debate be held in the National Assembly, not only for this hunting ground, but also for others in Slovenia, that this be resolved once and that the one who can do it best can manage it and take compensation and also pay with his own locals. I think there are more costs than the state benefits with this, but some comrades will just have to give up hunting for trophy game. I therefore propose that the debate be held in the National Assembly and that these things be resolved from the previous system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u526	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 45. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology of Mag. Stanka Stepišnik to the question of Mr Horvat on the intention to abolish and transfer postal activities and competences from a more remote location to larger centres. Here, you have the opportunity to explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u527	Thank you, Madam Vice President! Mag. Stepišnika, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, who is also responsible and responsible for universal postal services throughout Slovenia, I asked about the intentions of Post Slovenia, d.o.o., who wants to do some mysterious, sloppied, not to say a hypocritical way, because nothing is known, to reorganise his postal network mainly in the Pomurje area and the Slovenian mountains. The fact is that in some post offices operating time is expected to decrease dramatically, approximately 2 hours, let's say that some post offices should be discontinued, which is very important here, but it is that the jurisdiction and work of the business unit Post of Slovenia in Murska Sobota is moving from January 1st to Maribor. A similar matter, a similar fate is expected to hit the business unit in Novi Gorica, if I am well aware and, of course, I am concerned. The Minister gave no tangible answer, and then he suddenly experienced a flash, turned to me and said, "There is a problem in the law, the law is problematic." I said, "Okay, Mr. Minister, the opposition is working for you too, so we're going to suggest that this legislation is probably the Postal Service Act and some other law to discuss it and to identify where the problem really is." Of course, there is only something to say here, namely that the Post Office of Slovenia did not take into account recommendation No. 11, which speaks of achieving quality and excellence of business. Therefore, the Post Office of Slovenia does not carry out evaluation or self-assessment and cannot be improved on the basis of this. It is said that its functioning, its services cannot be improved and no one has sanctioned or asked why it does not comply with recommendation No 11. Let me also remind you here of the European model of excellence, which is practiced, say, by mail in England and also by French mail. What is this reorganisation of the network? It is simply that, if this goes on, some small congregation will lose its mail, and the county of Pomurje will probably never be able to make it, since it will no longer have a business post office. I therefore invite you to support this proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-11-19-SDZ6-Redna-19.ana.u528	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 24 votes against 45 Members and Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 19th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at nine o'clock. Everybody wants a nice rest of the night.
