ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, Mr Minister with fellow Members, I am starting with the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the next Member and Member, Mrs Jasmina Opec and Mag, cannot attend today's meeting. Borut Ambrožich. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on tasks and powers of the police within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you very much. We have two police laws ahead of us. The first is the so-called law on the tasks and powers of the police. In the introduction, let me stress that we have one law today, which is the Police Act, which we are dividing into two laws, as my predecessor has already foreseen, by considering or adopting these two laws. The purpose of the law on police tasks and powers is to prepare a modern European comparable transparent law, which will systematically and comprehensively regulate and define police tasks, general police powers and enforcement resources, and will also regulate complaints against police officers. In preparing the draft law, the International Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights, which bind the Republic of Slovenia, and the recommendations of domestic and foreign institutions and organisations dealing with the protection of human rights in police procedures, have been consistently taken into account. The origins for the drafting of the law were also internal and external analyses, research, projects, findings of controls, reports of the Ombudsman, important jurisprudence and decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, as well as the theory and practice of modern democratic police. The basic objective of the bill before us is to correct and supplement the provisions in areas that have proved to be under-completed during the implementation of the Police Act. Among the fundamental innovations between police powers, I should mention the following: the substantive clarification of certain indeterminate legal concepts, in particular the high probability, the danger, the great danger; the definition of police procedure and the tactical discretion: a new police mandate, a so-called road closure or a blockade point, there is no such power in the current legislation, but it will be possible to use it if there is a likelihood that there will be a major danger in a particular area or a need for arresting perpetrators of criminal offences or the like; the new definition of criminalisation and evaluation of information is one of the last in the European field to which we are regulating; the new police powers to ensure security and order at sports events; these are the two powers that we have already discussed in the National Assembly last year. If I round up, I believe that by adopting this law we will, in fact, deal with a new more European comparable and more modern field of tasks, police and police powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Home Affairs to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Madam President Maša Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Committee on the Interior shall be held at its 9th session, on 16. 1. 2013 as a parent working body, considered the draft law on the tasks and powers of the police submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. Prior to that, at the request of the Group of Members at its 7th regular session on the proposal for a law, the National Assembly also held a general debate and decided that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. Mr Vinko Gorenak, representative of the Minister for the Interior, said in a supplementary explanation of the bill that the law in force had been passed in 1998 and subsequently amended several times. In 2010, the Ministry's professional services and also the police began drafting new legislation in two separate regulations, one of which is an organisational one of a procedural nature. The first examination of both drafts of the law was already carried out in the previous term, where it was found that the law was suitable for further consideration and the legislative procedure was then terminated due to the termination of the mandate. Both proposals have now been supplemented and submitted to the legislative procedure in the new mandate. The Minister presented the draft law below and said that it was a European comparable and transparent law that would systematically and comprehensively regulate this area and set out all police tasks, general powers of the police, coercive means and will also resolve complaints against police officers. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented some of the points in her written opinion and, with regard to the use of technical means for recording, photographing and identifying persons, vehicles and objects, pointed out the possible disproportionateity of such arrangements, whereby the selection of such technical means depends solely on the police judgment. The proposal for a law does not lay down the criteria for what is particularly problematic because it is a matter of such technical means as can be significantly encroached on the rights and position of individuals. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also stressed that their comments were largely duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The opinion of the Council of State was presented by the President of the Commission, Mr Rajko Fajt, who said that the Commission supports and assesses the appropriate systemic regulation of police powers. The Deputy Information Officer reiterated her comments on Articles 113 and 114 of the draft law relating to the previously mentioned use of technical means in data collection and the use of technical means in the exercise of police powers and the monitoring of public gatherings. According to the authorising officer, the provisions are problematic because they do not assign any of the technical means that could be used in the collection of the data and give the police extensive powers or allow them an arbitrary choice of these funds. The Information Officer believes that it is necessary in a democratic society already at the level of the law to determine by which technical means the police will intervene in personal rights and collect personal data. In view of the above arguments, the Deputy Information Commissioner invited the members of the Committee to support their proposals, which were then really summarised in their amendments by our Positive Slovenia Group. In the debate on individual members, the Committee member expressed dissatisfaction with some of the Ministry's written explanations, which had rejected the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Thus, for example, a comment on the definition of certain terms under Article 3 of the law, such as resisting and passive resistance, was not taken into account. In view of the recent events in the Maribor protests, where dilemmas arose as to whether the resistance or passive resistance of demonstrators and whether the police properly applied coercive measures, it proved to be particularly important. In this connection, the Committee member also pointed out that it would be good for the police, in addition to internal forms of supervision, to provide for the possibility of setting up a special, independent group of expert experts who could provide an impartial assessment of all the measures and conduct of the police. The Committee has adopted all amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, but has not adopted the amendments of the Positive Slovenia. In the light of the amendments adopted under Article 133, the text of the amended law, where amendments which form part of this report are also included, is prepared and adopted by the Committee at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The National Assembly held a general debate on the proposal for a law at the 7th meeting of the National Assembly, which makes it impossible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. However, we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 January this year. I'm warning you, we have an electronic checkup. Two amendments were tabled. These are the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. First, we turn to the debate on the amendment to Article 113, as the Group of Social Democrats has said. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. I can see that, so I'm just gonna open up the application. Please sign up. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u6	Have a good day to all present. Ladies and gentlemen, we are adopting an important law where we want to protect human rights, and we must, at the same time, facilitate the work of police officers so that their response in such difficult situations is in line with the law and the constitution. And also so that a police officer will not be able to abuse this law unwittingly and then have problems — we know what kind of problems it is. The Ombudsman had quite a few comments on this law, and I think it is right that they are largely taken into account. Of course not. See, the use of powers that are necessary in some cases, and so on, without identifying which ones can be used in such a particular case, can be very dangerous. Therefore, the powers should not be laid down very broadly, but very specifically to facilitate the work of the police and to protect citizens and citizens. Police officers, too, must not seek methods and means, for it can happen that they reach into the life of an individual. We have now had quite a bit of experience, not us, but the police and those who have calmed matters on these protests, especially in Maribor, have experience of how quickly it can happen, that exceeding powers is just an incentive or pouring oil on fire and that there can be serious matters. Therefore, this law concerning the use of the authorisation must be sufficiently detailed. Human rights are of course fundamental, and these are also fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Constitution, and in this law we must follow all these matters. I suggest you support this amendment to Article 113.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The fact is that the general debate on this law has in principle confirmed that the law on the powers and tasks of the police is an important law which, with those powers that have been exercised disproportionately, in view of the protection of human rights, we cannot claim and cover what we usually say is that we must take over European legislation in this area. We are certainly obliged to respect the directives of the European Union, but we are certainly also a democratic country, which must always weigh very sensitively when it comes to the selection of individual funds. These means, which may be highly invasive, must not be left to their discretion and where this grave interference with individual integrity could be. Of course, between security, individual security and community security and human rights, which, according to the individual's rule, are always very difficult to determine the exact limit, so the legal provisions must be as clear as possible and therefore the law must contain as many clear provisions as possible that narrow the space to too wide a mandate. Therefore, the law must set out what may be questionable, may be a problem and must not be left to the law. This was also highlighted in particular by the written opinion of the information officer, in this case the information officer, and this was also discussed at the meeting of the Committee. The Group of Social Democrats did not prepare the contents of this amendment and the amendment for the following article alone, but it is only a follow-up to what the information officer recommended. However, it is called a specialised institution to ensure respect for interference with individual integrity. And here is hunting for individual signals, intercepting and disrupting one of those means which, as the Deputy Information Officer warned, has already been problematic in any previous legislative treatment, because such a permit for a frequency disturbance can be placed in a place and caught there, the operation extends to all that the police actually do not have a special permit. It's if I'm a little rough, for collateral damage that would happen in such cases. That's why, as we said, we followed it in the amendment. If you look at the amended bill, then I would warn you that our amendment is in fact such that in the first paragraph it draws the one in the third line "according to the law" and then "for the marking or identification of persons, vehicles and objects in use in the police". However, this is what must be prescribed by law, not what is used in the police force. We are aware that even those who deal with these things professionally cannot predict the future. But what can be used, already known, must be determined by law. And also in this third paragraph, which is specific and when we speak now, really, at the level of the general, let me say a Maribor case for illustration. When the radars were set up, I myself against radars that determine the speed at sensitive points where it may be a matter of safety for all traffic participants, I have nothing, but according to the law, persons must also be informed that there is a device there which is designed to detect the speed at which the driver or driver drives past the device which detects speed. This case was not regulated in the Maribor case when setting up the radar. And we all know that there's a special warning in front of every tunnel, Podmilj, if you remember, that it's a speed measurement. Those who deal with traffic safety say that then the drivers and drivers behave more cautiously and in accordance with regulations, if we know that such measuring stations exist. And then there is the correction of the third paragraph, where the text would go as you can see, at checkpoints of over-average speed on road sections and the use of technical means to identify other offences and the time limit on the storage of these evidences, which are also recorded in the supplementary proposal. It is simply that the powers of the police are not explained, they do not understand too widely. Here, the information officer or her deputy also referred to a comparison with Article 73, where the coercive means are listed, or I think that all the coercive funds in Article 73 are not mentioned, but well, we can also understand this by the fact that the typification is the responsibility of the minister, but is the type, and the type is not also listed in Article 73 in the second part, if you are looking at it. They can still be gaps, we can still talk about how a matter can be improved, but I am giving Members and Members our amendment, which has also been reflected in the media, when it has been possible to see that it has been made available to us, let us say, through these legislative changes, to follow that we are a democratic society. The democracy of a society is also demonstrated by how it is very protective of human rights and how it can accurately define the boundary between security and interference with individual rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I can see the hands, so I'm reopening the application. Please sign up. Mr. Janez Fishich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already pointed out in the first reading that we expect the competent Ministry to examine in detail the comments of the information officer concerning Article 113 and 114 of the Law, an appropriate supplement, the definition of the technical means to be used for interfering with the privacy of individuals, which is certainly the case in such supervision. I will therefore define myself here, up to both articles or amendments. The requirements of the information officer could not be fully met, as it was not possible to include all the technical means used by the police in carrying out police duties as a result of the extremely rapid development of technology. The 114th Article, which speaks of recording the exercise of police powers, therefore proposes the establishment of a typification of technical means, as it will be determined by the Minister by an internal act, which I agree with. The knowledge of the exercise of police powers provides for greater legal security for persons in police proceedings, thus making it easier to identify the actual situation in a possible appeal, indemnity or criminal proceedings. In the selection of technical means for photographing and video and audio recording, police officers are linked to the main purpose: monitoring the legality of the exercise of police powers. Therefore, police officers must not use those technical means which are not in accordance with this purpose and which would unduly produce data on a person. It must be recognised that the amendments of the coalition have made it clear that police officers may use these technical means in accordance with the law, in particular the Offences Act and the Criminal Procedure Act. These regulations lay down the criteria for the use of those technical means, and therefore fear of the will of police officers in the use of technical means is, in my opinion, superfluous. I will not support the proposed amendments to Articles 113 and 114. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Good-bye, Your Honor! The amendment to Article 113 of the amended proposal of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police in its amendment to Article 113, paragraph 1, is, in my opinion, a deterioration of the law. Weakening the law in the sense that it is less precise and allows greater discretion for the police. Of course, I do not agree with this; I am for the clearly limited powers of the police, but here you have also done this in a formal way, you have reduced it quantitatively and you have deleted some of the matters from this first paragraph. The law thus far stated that technical means should be used in accordance with the law. You have given a dictatorship, "which are and as defined by this law", this is one and the same, but you have changed, but you have thrown out, technical means for the identification and identification of persons, vehicles and objects used in the police, and also that unused footage, which will not be used to prove offences and criminal offences, must be destroyed in the thirties, is also thrown out. That is to say, here, in my opinion, you have given the police a greater opportunity to feed, archive footage, including those not used, to be abused and later used in some way, and you've limited everything else, so you've made this article worse, you've given more discretion to the police, which is exactly the opposite of what you're writing in the explanation of this amendment. I don't know what this is all about. Perhaps it is meant to make you somehow feel that you will soon be in a position to command the police and to use the police as much authority as possible under your command and your authority. I will reject this article of yours for these hidden purposes, which you have hidden in a relatively perfidious way, but they are clearly manifesting themselves. At home, it would be said that you can clearly see where the dog is praying if I use that phrase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Braniselj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you, Vice President. This amendment to Article 113, as well as the amendment to Article 114, because, in fact, it is somehow the same logic that advocates, has the ambition that not only should the law stipulate that the police can use technical means for photographing and video and audio recording, it is the law, and this is the law, but the law should also provide for and tax the means of photographing and video and audio recording. In its opinion, the information officer shall make such a recommendation to paragraph 73, where all compulsory means are taxed. Of course, coercive means must be included in the law, but, if we look at them, they are not tax-listed, such as the types of service dogs, they are not tax-listed in the law, because of course there is no point and they cannot be, nor are they listed types of water cannons, types of means of binding and fastening, means of forcible stopping and so on. I am talking about the fact that these details cannot be a matter of legal matter, they can be an internal organisation and a determination of acts with the police, and we believe in the National Gazette that such dissemination of the legal provisions is not necessary, because in any new type of means of photographing and video and audio recording, we will have to actually change the law. Is this the so-called best regulation — or is that the tendency of the law? I think not, in fact, this is an additional complication and additional complication by the police to adapt, as opposed to technical progress. We believe that this amendment to the 113th Article of the Social Democrats cannot be supported and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u16	Nice greetings, respectable minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues! First of all, let me express one great satisfaction that we finally have before us this so-called police legislation and I am also pleased that, after we have finished our first reading, there have been quite a few of these substantive proposals that have wanted to improve or otherwise regulate certain matters in the law, so that we are now faced with quite a small number of amendments in both laws. However, with regard to the amendments to Article 113, and also to Article 114, of which the information officer's opinion, and which the opposition has summarized by, the SD Group, I must say that I am a little bit surprised about this amendment, because it was more than clear on the Committee that the two articles had to be coordinated with the information officer, with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which also had comments, but then things or texts of the articles were settled as they should be, and on the other hand we have the words of the Ombudsman, who also welcomed the text of the law in these two articles. That is how I think that the text of the articles before us is good to deal with, and there is no need to accept the amendments. When we are talking about human rights, freedom, human privacy and, on the other hand, the security of citizens and citizens, I have thought about and recalled on September 11th in America when there were many debates about who to give priority to: either human freedom and their rights or still give a little more emphasis to the security of citizens and citizens. As I have already said, I think that the use of technical means to collect data on the one hand is quite a protection of human rights and the freedom of an individual, and on the other hand these powers are given so that police officers have sufficient authority to act in accordance with this law, which is quite clearly written, and I believe that if we give the police the right powers, they will also work properly and thus improve the security of citizens. Yesterday, when I was watching one show, when they were talking about us becoming a police state with this legislation, I have to say the opposite. By giving specific powers to the police, as I have already said, on the one hand, we protect the freedom of the individual, and on the other hand, we give the police those powers to ensure the safety of all participants, whether they are in traffic or otherwise. As far as technical means are concerned. The technique is progressing, we never know what the new technical means will be that can come into use. I know that in the previous term, we had quite a dilemma when various political officials were drifting past the legislation in one way or another, but when angry citizens and citizens turned to the police, why some other rules were applicable to these political officials, the police have repeatedly said that they do not have the authority or legislation to give them sufficient tools, technical means to act in accordance with the legislation. I believe, at least after the information I have received from the police circles, that these technical means can be used to ensure the security and freedom of citizens, and on the other hand they will be able to work without any fear or act in accordance with or in violation of the law. I personally will not support these two amendments. Finally, I must say that in this debate, I have often felt like police officers are being treated or perceived as being some sort of necessary evil, which are, in fact, some of the fights that are occurring over people are incassants and so on. What I'm talking about with the cops, they have a lot of problems about how to work in everyday business, because they're always afraid of whether they've followed their own rules or not. And they also welcomed that they finally have two laws that accurately define both their tasks and their internal organisation. I think that whoever acts in accordance with the law will have no problem with the need for police officers to use any technical means, but who moves or violates the law, it is only right that police officers have powers and operate according to them. I will not support the amendment alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, we will both support the proposed amendment, in particular this first one, which is mostly now under discussion. We believe that it is appropriate for the provisions of these Articles to be further regulated than the information officer suggests. I'm always on my own when an information officer comes forward. This was also the case with the second law, which is the Telecommunications Act. The Office of the Information Officer shall be the office responsible for paying particular attention to the field of information and interference with personal rights. When this State authority makes an announcement in a matter of law, I think it is necessary to listen to it, because it is doing exactly what that State authority is set up to do. And if the information officer has pointed to Articles 113 and 114, it is necessary to listen to this and by no means adheres to it, as the speaker said that the comments have been taken into account. This is also clear from my report, which I presented as the chairman of the Committee, where the Deputy Information Commissioner, also at the last reading on the Committee, reiterated this problem and said that it was not adequately resolved. This could later be seen in the opinion of the media's information officer. This is not about comparing the situation from Slovenia to the 11th of September in the United States, I do not think it is comparable. It is that modern democratic societies are extremely careful to regulate all interventions into personal rights. The technical means available to the police today, and to all others, are so developed and allow for such profound interference in personal rights that, on the other hand, the legislation regulates these interventions extremely precisely and therefore establishes one standard that it is necessary, at the legal level, to determine precisely and precisely what kind of interventions are involved. In this context, we think that the amendments specify more precisely what actions police officers can use in their work, comparable to other countries and different in terms of how police officers operate. I think that this is a trend that we must all want, no matter who the specific minister is, which government is in power. These are some of the democratic trends that are developing all over the world in this direction and not in return – into more coercion, into more repression than has been done in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you. Maybe I was misunderstood. I have repeatedly stressed that the Ministry has coordinated with the Information Officer, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Ombudsman. I was talking about coordination. I didn't say it was for or against, like the predecessor wanted to put words in my mouth. I've said it several times that there was coordination. But what they've agreed on, and I believe that if the two of them coordinate, there must be some compromise. And in that case, that's what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much. However, it seems to me that I have to respond to some things, including media records, which compared the situation of last year or the year before, when we adopted the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. At that time, the Information Commissioner also came forward, and I, at the time in the opposition, fully supported her efforts and later the National Assembly as a whole supported her efforts. It was just something else back then. That was the next situation. Under the current legislation, the police may obtain permission to listen or may obtain permission to identify whether someone has been in a place or not in such a way as to communicate a telephone number or an e-mail number, only then can they obtain permission to have someone on a particular transmitter. But then the change made by the previous coalition went in this direction so that the police could get all the data, like I said here in this bench, about the Maximarket transmitter, which means, say, 100,000 people. We didn't agree to that, and we didn't accept it. Today we have a completely different situation. What Mr Braniselj has said must be taken seriously, the technical means are developing. We had, for example, the same law on police from 1980 to 1998. It wasn't changed at the time. However, you know that the technical resources from 1980 to 1998 have progressed greatly. We didn't have cell phones in 1980, but we had them in 1998. That's one thing. Another matter of what is now the problem of this amendment. We, and this is the essence of my performance, and we, with the amendment adopted on the committee, said that these funds could be used in accordance with the law, and what the United List proposes goes to the Social Democrats, I apologize, this is changing too quickly. [[...]] In what you propose, however, it is the next matter that they can be applied in accordance with the law which they are and as provided for by this law. This law does not provide for technical means, and if no technical means are laid down in this law, you cannot use them. It's impossible to write "in accordance with this law". There is nothing specific about this law and it is not possible to apply it. What brings the original text, or amendment adopted on the committee, is that it is in accordance with the law. That's the difference. What kind of marriage do you have? Offences Act, Criminal Procedure Act, Traffic Law, Border Law and so on. If the Social Democrats Amendment were to be adopted, it would be the end of all application. Why? Because there is nothing specified in this law! However, if we adopt the original text adopted by the amendment to the Committee, we will in fact accept that these funds are being used in accordance with the law, that is, other laws, in particular the law on offences, the CAP, transport legislation, border legislation. That's the nonsense of the amendment that's ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, we have problems because of the problems of those who cause problems. Today this is us in the National Assembly, and it always is. It is always the case when the legislative branch of power adopts a law that in practice is not applicable or can be used by skilled lawyers when the process of such or otherwise occurs, and those who have committed or committed a crime cannot be punished or even forgiven for an act that has been committed may even have led to death. Therefore, we need to be very serious and very careful when we adopt laws, especially when we are talking about the law on the tasks and powers of the police, which must be taken care of in every country and also in Slovenia primarily for a sense of security – and not only for a feeling, but also for real security. How do we feel when we feel that we are living in a reregulated country or a repressive country when you feel that you are being controlled and controlled on all sides? What is the message of this policy? If we tell the public that we will and want to monitor on average, here in these two amendments it is written that "in accordance with the law" is added here in fact, "who are and as determined by this law", Mr Minister, and use technical means for photographing and video and audio recording. It already says here what they can use. We have a law that has a hundred and fifty pages of material, and we do not have in this law the unwritten, what kind of technical means these are, please! Then take another day more and write two paragraphs and two articles more or shorten this law. Is it necessary to write so many salads that we can behave properly? After all, it does not matter what we write down, it is important how this is done in practice. And it is not right and it is not fair to us, nor to citizens and citizens, nor to those who cross the border and come and find themselves in Slovenia, that you can be a police officer, depending on which foot he stands, apply and make the rules as he thinks he is right. No! No! Because we have too many marriages, because they can be interpreted by any official in their own way. This is how the Piran police officer explains the same law in his own way and the Maribor police officer in his own way and the third in Ljubljana. This is wrong in this country! I know that some people want to control everything on average, I know that some people would like to have control over every citizen and citizen, I know that some have such appetites, but I don't want to and I don't want to live in a police state. I want a cop to be respected, as we respected him when I was in primary and secondary school. Today you don't respect a cop the way you used to because it got lost. A cop today is a person people look at as if he's always chasing someone. A police officer is a uniformed person and worthy of respect. That was once, and that's what I wish it was today. All of this when we talk about some political desires, how we want to monitor someone, how we don't want to know what we're doing, what we're doing, what's wrong and what's not fair. We can't allow anyone to come, today is the right, tomorrow will be the left, tomorrow will be the middle, or the imaginary option, and then she will make the law her own way and explain it her way. I want to live in a just, fair and safe country. I want, because this is also our mission, to ensure to all citizens and citizens that they live in a safe country and that they have this feeling. Mr Minister, you give with your conduct and your statements, unfortunately I must tell you this, a real feeling like you want to create one such country, where citizens will feel less secure. I don't feel safe when you're the head of the police department. Especially because we don't have the same thoughts, because I think differently from you, I have other political views, and you're thinking completely different. And God knows what you're cooking in your head and what you're thinking. That's really how I feel. That's the signal you give when you act the way you act. These are your statements. You must restrain your statements, I am also a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and also all other thinkers have the right to live free in this country. It's a bad feeling when you feel like you're living in a country where we're all trying to put up with some kind of repression. We just want to live free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm opening a debate. A replica? Were you quoted or misunderstood? Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u26	[[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] And then a statement for the debate that I won't [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek, for the good move not to discuss whether you have been mentioned or not. I'm opening the log-in list. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I have to respond to the execution of my colleague, Gaspar Gaspard Mišić, who, with such praise and nostalgia until earlier, has been appreciated by the police, even though we did not have cops at the time, he thinks of the militias and the crutches, but, of course, it is an expression of desire for the actual police state. This is the fact that the citizens at the time were significantly more supervised and he wants such a system, the awe of the police. Look, we all know it's valid at the time, and it was true that people said this joke was for two months, and this one was for three months. And many have also been obsessed with an innocent political joke. They went even further back to the Goli Island. And, of course, Mr. Mišič is singing praises as it was then. I'm against having fear again and police control in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you. Accurate reading of paragraph 1 speaks of police being allowed to use funds used by the police. Whatever you're reading. No, they're determined by law. The problem with this law is that the funds are not taxed. And now I'm going to say that it's necessary to distinguish between the species and the guy. The species is one. It's a frequency jammer. What kind of guy is the minister gonna set that up? And now let me prove it by Article 73, which has already been quoted. See, in the case of types of coercive assets, there is "gas assets and other legally designated means of passiveisation", but if you want to know what circumstances and which are to be passed, you have to go to 91st, 95th, and 90th. However, Article 90 is very interesting because it says here that they can use special motor vehicles. I'll ask if the helicopter is a special motor vehicle. Was it used in public gatherings? Helicopter was used. To the extent that we do not discuss how the funds used can go through legally specified statements. And I would also warn that it should also be seen that the use by order or judgement is also linked to the gravity of the offence. It's about terrorist acts, it's about hard acts, it's also about individuals, not just groups, when it comes to threats and active resistance. So these things are so important, do we know what passive resistance is, what active resistance is, and so on. The dangers of interpreting the law are considerable and damage, Mr Minister, that these funds are not tax-listed in the law. You should be, and this is what the information officer is talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. After all, today, or at this point in time, the colleague of Potrat summed up the point. The point, also highlighted by the Office of the Information Commissioner, is that the proposed dictatorship does not have any limitations. And since it has been said how many coordinations have been made, and that you have not in the end clearly reconciled yourself, there is also information on the website of the Office of the Information Commissioner, which is practically weeks ago in which they are asking in the direction of whether we are becoming a police state. This is a key issue of this law or this regulation, whether we are becoming a police state. I am convinced that, given what has been happening lately, in recent days, weeks, there are no coincidences in such laws as the government has brought before us. It's all made up for some specific purpose, and I don't believe that by chance the diction in the law is what it is. I don't know if he conspired or got away with it. He mentioned hearings. That's one of the key problems. The information officer shall clearly point out, or its office, an example of so-called false base stations. We're not talking about some science fiction here. If you go to the website, it is commercially possible to buy a fake base station today immediately. We're talking about human rights abuses. And these things need to be extremely sensitive. When we talk about false base stations, those who know how the procedures are done within the police when it comes to the worst crimes will know that in fact the police are also very often faced with problems concerning operators. Because operators are not prepared to follow the police orders blindly, they are following the court orders in the first place. This needs to be made very clear. We're talking about very sensitive things today. But I have to say, I'm not surprised by such dictions. I will support the amendments of the Social Democrats, because I believe that the key problem, as it has been said, is that this law does not explicitly state what it should list, that is, the methods and means by which we should and with which we can reach into the life of an individual. It is true that technical resources are developing — as this is worrying. Recently we could see on TV how the police are buying new wiretaps, if I'm not wrong, then there was some weird information, whether they're buying or not buying, and in the end we were in the information that they're buying – the minister, if not, you're going to fix me. The owl is also modernizing, which is right. But the question is, how far do we go with new technical means into individual freedom? And when it was said earlier, what's first, whether it's the freedom of the individual or the security of the state. I don't think I need to answer that question. We've been watching things lately that really remind us of the police state. Because we identify the protestors, we hunt down those who think they might go to protest. Veno Taufer, I saw him yesterday, wondering if they were listening to him. By chance, he was a cosigner of a letter that criticized the Slovenian government abroad. Strangely, then, such laws or dictions as you bring to this national assembly are given an appeal. I will support the amendment of the Social Democrats because I believe that the discretion in this law is simply too much for the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much. We are or are not a police state, we can look at the 54th article of the existing law, which is in force today, but was adopted, at least by this article, in my memory at the time of the left government. He says: "In collecting personal and other data intended to prove offences and crimes and to identify offenders or perpetrators, offenders may use technical means for photographing and audio and video recording. That means what? This means that today this matter is significantly broader than we have foreseen in the law. At least that's how I see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We're fixing this marriage for a lot of reasons. I would only point out that the information officer and the Ombudsman must be a thorn in the fifth governing structure. And that's right. This proves that these two ladies, because we now have these ladies, are doing the right thing and are demanding what is right from us. Look, give us a sample of the United States of America after 9/11, I'm not taking it in any way. I don't like their democracy because I could sit in Guatemala without a conviction, without evidence, and so on and wait for some miracle to happen. There is also an unlimited tracking that is present in the United States. We can't bring this pattern into our society. And no one in this national council has said that cops are necessarily evil to be thugs. These are offensive words coming from other mouths, not from ours. Thank God I've got cops, we've got honest cops, they've got their expertise, and we're gonna let them do their jobs very safely. What's going on in our society? What Jerovšek said is awe and so on. Yes, terror, people are afraid. People are afraid of February 8th, a cultural holiday, and I won't tell you why. So let us calm down the ball adopted by this amendment, so that we can at least ease the possibility of misuse of any means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I think we're moving a little bit around the smart nonsense again. Why? Our main problem is not whether the police will be able to act or not, but the root cause of all the protests and intolerance lately is that we have become poor, that people have nothing to live on, that we create too little and that people are in great distress. Thus, these protests are not a reflection of people being wicked, wanting to impose or political options on a particular politician, but they are real hardships for people. So we'll do the most for security if we start creating a new value. In a year, my colleague Stepišnik looks at me, I don't know what he thinks, but we haven't done anything or done very little to create conditions to make the economy work. We are losing competition with all neighbouring countries. Anxiety, intolerance, reduced security are largely due to the fact that people are hard to live. Consider a particular example of one family, where fathers and mothers work literally from morning to evening and cannot pay the bills, let alone live a decent life and afford children a trip, and so on. Can we put ourselves in these people's shoes? That's a security issue. People become impatient, irritated, and simply go to the streets. Now I'm listening like this. The one and the other sides or the position and opposition are convinced that the police should have greater or lesser powers. And this is where we make a big mistake. This debate in Parliament should not even be, should take place earlier on the Committee or on the Committees and we should coordinate two-thirds of Parliament in order to get good legislation, because we need all the police, those in power today, and those in power tomorrow. And I always feel like we're making laws for the current government or we're working against laws that are currently in force. That's wrong. We all need a good legal basis for the functioning of the system institutions, which will allow, in a specific case, for the falsities to be eliminated, that they will be properly punished, that there will be no abuse and so on. We should have taken a completely different approach. Now, again, we're tightening the muscles, who gets three or two or one more votes. Look, so-called Wilfan's marriage fell needlessly because of one voice, because we strained the muscles in an unnecessary way. This is all to the detriment of us who are here, to the detriment of the citizens, to the detriment of security and so on. I still believe that there should be a search for such important laws – and in fact there are not some political laws – a two-thirds consensus and then a marriage in Parliament, and not before, because we are working needlessly to continue to divide, and we need, above all, unity in functioning in order to be able to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a Parliament where we should do everything we can to make the laws clear, to be accurately written and to enable the police to perform their work and to exercise good control. If we don't do this, we've done the wrong thing. And that's the point. Everything else when we say they used to be militias, for example, there was no SDS, and it was fine, even if I could be a little mean. Today, however, it is right to agree here in the National Assembly to say that it is written as it says that the police can use all the means for listening and for what is actually not good. This is what it says in an article that lists all the funds that the police have. But that's not what this is about. The point is that we have to give the police the tools, give them the power to control what they have to control, and write very precisely what they can use and what they can use. Everything else we're saying here today, who they've been watching, who they haven't been watching, what they might do, what they might do, what they might not do, is solely the fault of legislation. It is therefore right to discuss here in the National Assembly how to improve the law, how to improve the laws, and what to write. This was the purpose of these amendments, in which we drew attention to what might not be well written enough to change. And this is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, when we speak in this national assembly, but all the rest we leave to history, to historians, and to preserve a little bit of dignity in this national assembly, we are also asked to do so by people who have given us very clear messages about how power should behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Chairman. Every law we deal with here is important. I can't tell which marriage is more important, which is less, and every marriage touches people. When we talk about security, it is important to be careful that when we want to provide security for a group or an individual, we do not violate those fundamental rights at the same time and do not deprive him of any security or dignity. That's why it's important that we listen to each other. And the smart ones listen to good suggestions. Minister, you haven't written a bad marriage, but there's a law that needs to be finalized or some changes need to be added. Why don't you listen to these two well-thinking supplements that are not political, but at least I think, I hope that you too, that the Information Commissioner is not a political body or institution. If it points out that something needs to be changed, that something in the law needs to be added or withdrawn, then take this into account. I am sure that if we listened a little more and followed the thinking differently, for in this country, not only one minded, but thinking differently, then the law would certainly be more just. And that's what this is all about. That is why I will support both amendments, and I expect the other Members to confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. The question is how do we understand the Information Commissioner's Institute, not going any further, how do we understand or respect the Ombudsman's Institute. Why do we even have them? If, in a particular case, a law on the tasks and powers of the police is given to a particular law, we get clues, concerns that something is in conflict or that something can be wrong in practice primarily, from experience, then we need to imagine, study and to take this into account as much as possible in laws. Otherwise, when police officers apply the legal provisions and act in accordance with the law that will be adopted today or will be adopted in the final hearing, the individual will have the opportunity under another law, on the basis of the Constitution or other rights guaranteed by the laws adopted in the same national assembly, to challenge all of this or not be punished if he actually committed the offence. What is sought in the amendments to Articles 113 and 114 is that the powers given by the State to the repressive authority must be specified precisely by law and only by such powers as are necessary to achieve public security. Freedom of the individual and security of the State are paramount, and individuals can interpret it as they wish. What the police can and can use must be clearly defined when and how, not just after Prešeren. That's not how it's supposed to be done. We have had a number of key and very important cases in court, when skilled lawyers, legal representatives of those accused of crimes, for the unlawful or unlawful use of certain methods, have been excused for proving that the police have not legally obtained the relevant information on the procedure itself. It is interesting that in this same law, in article 73, when we talk about the use of coercive means, you have a tax ruling on how and what the police can use, in article 113, where you refer to the use of certain funds, and so on, I do not know why you are not also concerned with the use of road traffic surveillance, how a policeman can use certain devices or methods, recorded a tax ruling as was found in the debate. [[...]] Let me conclude by saying that I am disappointed because laws are passed by ignoring all warnings from the institutes by both the Information Commissioner and the Ombudsman. If we don't respect that, then the question is the rule of law. Let's go back a step, think about all the actions that we are doing here in Parliament, and what is the reason why we do not respect the warning of those who are first called in the country to care for human rights that care for the freedom and security of this country or to care for the proper implementation of the laws that have been passed in the temple of democracy. We must not allow the time - to - time authority to interpret or subdue the laws as it wishes. Let us live free, let us think free, let us have our thoughts, not lead us into the area of mind and mind jealousy. I want to live in a free country, I want to make sure that all people live and that they will feel that way, and that the message of Slovenian policy will be that they live, live and live in a legal and safe country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I guess not. I conclude the debate on Article 113 and the amendment to the same Article. I am opening a debate on Article 114 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Yeah. I'm opening the application. Please sign up. Mag. Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We touched on this article in part, and I mentioned it myself when I spoke about collateral damage. This is about the proposed deletion of paragraph 1 with our amendment. The information officer shall in particular point out that we must be particularly careful when the interference with human rights and freedoms is greater than is necessary for the performance of the duties. And the first paragraph is just like that. It's a self-protection paragraph, so to speak. With this, the police protect themselves because they record the legality of the exercise of police powers and can use all means to do so. In recording, however, he may be trapped in this dawn as well as someone who has neither passively nor actively resisted anything. This Article therefore refers to public gatherings and, of course, by drawing up the first paragraph, the recording, the use of technical means where, in the light of the circumstances, mass violations of public order or offences can be expected. The use of security measures is ensured and the use of these means is limited to monitoring the event only, but it does not have this additional purpose referred to in Article 1 that this monitoring is in fact intended to enable the police to demonstrate the legality of their conduct. As she follows through with funds, she will also be able to see what has happened and what has not happened. I do not wish to recall any of the recordings we have already followed in the National Assembly, but I would point out that the fifth paragraph is still written here if our amendment were adopted, this fourth paragraph would be that of the technical means referred to in this and previous Article, that these technical means must be typified and the typification determined by an internal act. It is not feared that the law should be amended immediately if the technique improves or progresses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Would anyone like to discuss the amendment of Article 114 of the Social Democrats' Group? Since I see that there is no desire to debate, I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 30 January 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on organization and police work within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Of course, both marriages are closely related for the reasons mentioned above. The law on the organisation and the work of the police is therefore before us. The purpose of this law is to regulate the normative basis for the modern police organisation, its management, direction and to clearly delimit the powers between the Ministry of Interior and the police. The law therefore aims to regulate specific labour relations in the police, the status and protection of police officers, training and education, research activities and to ensure closer involvement of police in the local environment, local communities and closer cooperation of the police with other actors, thereby improving the organisation and functioning of the police. Let me just list a few major solutions for the introduction. Firstly, the precise definition of the situation between the Ministry and the police and the definition of the tasks performed by the Ministry in relation to the police. This article is also in the existing law and has been thoroughly corrected since 1998 and is therefore more precisely specified in this law. Secondly, a more detailed definition of the direction of the ministry's supervision of police work, the powers of the service's supervisors who supervise the police. Let me also point out immediately at this point that there is no change in what some of you have asked me, the minister does not direct the police in the event that the state prosecutor has taken the case. Thirdly, strengthening decentralisation and autonomy and autonomy of police administrations. Fourthly, enhanced partnership in providing security through the establishment of councils, commissions and other agreed forms of cooperation, partnerships at the local level. Fifthly, specific labour relations arrangements allowing for the smooth implementation of the operational tasks of the police, the performance of tasks under special working conditions, overtime, temporary relocations and special emphasis and concern for employees such as legal assistance to police officers, protection in the event of threats, threatened staff. And last but not least, upgrading the education system and gradually moving to a higher level of education to perform police duties for most of the police jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs to be the working body of the mother. The report will be presented by the Chairman of the Committee [[..]] Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Chairman. At its 9th meeting, on 16 January 2013, the Committee of the Interior considered the draft law at issue, which was forwarded to the State Assembly by the Government. Before that, at the request of Members of Parliament at the 7th ordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, the National Assembly held a general debate and concluded that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. Mr Vinko Gorenak, Minister for the Interior, said in a supplementary explanation that the aim of the bill is to regulate the normative basis for the modern police organisation, its management, direction and delimitation of powers between the ministry and the police. Following the introductory presentation and in the debate he presented some of the proposed solutions and identified himself for the proposals made by both police unions. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments made in their written opinion were mostly duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and additional clarifications were provided by the Ministry of the Interior in relation to the comments not taken into account. In the course of the debate, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made comments and concerns about some of the union proposals. They also presented their opinions on the draft law to the two representatives of the police unions, who initially expressed their support in principle for the two proposals for police laws and said that they had comments on some of the proposed solutions to the proposal for a law on organisation and police work, in which the unions had also drafted proposals for amendments proposed to the committee for adoption. With these proposals, they do not want to disrupt existing systemic solutions in the field of public servants and civil servants' salaries, but they do want to impose less rigid measures on certain issues, according to the specificities of the police profession. In the debate on the individual articles of the bill, the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia were presented and the representative of this Group committed himself to maintaining the current regime of appointment and discharge of the Director-General of Police, which represents higher standards than the proposed new regime. In the debate on the amendment of Positive Slovenia to Article 12, which deleted part of the text of this Article, some members of the Committee agreed that the provision was too substantively open and other members of the Committee felt that the Minister should be informed of all important events, as he must know the situation within his department for which he was responsible. On a proposal from a member of the Committee to this Article, the Committee adopted its amendment and formulated that part of Article 12 in more detail. The main part of the debate, however, referred to the proposals of the two unions, with members of the Committee discussing and voting on all union proposals as amendments to the Committee. On the basis of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 12, 74 and 79. He accepted all the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups, but did not accept the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia and the amendment of Ambassador Jerk Čehovin. After discussion on the individual articles of the bill and after discussion and vote on the amendments, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them together.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The national assembly held a general debate at its 7th meeting, which makes it impossible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving immediately to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the reviews of the amendments tabled on 28 January of this year. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. I can see that it's a wish to discuss, which is why I'm opening my application. Please sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you. There has been a major debate on this article on the Committee, but it is a fundamental issue of the relationship between the Minister and the Director-General of Police. I consider the Director-General of the Police to be a professional function, and the fact is that the ministerial function, as well as the function of the Secretary of State, is a political function. We can therefore link this debate with the principle debate on the relationship between professional and policy when it comes to the relationship also between the Director-General and the Minister, who can and must be informed of what the Minister is responsible for and in which cases the Director-General of Police must inform the Minister. I am not in favour of the fact that the Minister must be informed of everything because I understand that this is too much information, but that he must be informed of the most important events, but should not, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, be informed of those events which could in any way interfere with or affect the professional work of the police. It is a matter of forewords when, say, the information of the Director-General of Police to the Minister could also be given such a dimension in specific political circumstances that the work of the police would be compromised. I am thinking of a very specific case from the recent past, but I am in favour of the view that it is our job to take care of systemic solutions, so I will not illustrate this case for now. But it is this experience that has led the Social Democrats to invest in the work that has been complemented in the debate or after the debate with the amendment. This was an event in the police field and which could have a greater impact on the public, but would have added "and other events in the police field where this information cannot hinder and affect the operational functioning of the police". So it is a protected professional work of the police and is protected from the temptation of political influence. We think we need this supplement, and therefore we expect it to be supported by a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Masha Kociper has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much. As usual, I fully agree with colleague Potrato. It is that, despite the fact that we are adopting solutions which are of course systemic and at general level, we are taking them into some particular political situation. That is why it also seems extremely important for us to make it very clear in the legislation when the Minister should be informed. As the colleague said, the minister is a political function, there is no doubt about it, and it is also more open to open the door that the minister has a great and concrete influence on who will be the director of the police. In this connection, which will now be even stronger, legislation must be defined in this sense that it is clear when someone is informed of something and what the powers are. In this amendment, which we will support in our parliamentary group, I think is a major diction when this information cannot hinder and affect the way the police operate. It is said that no one, including the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, denies the right to the Minister and also to the Director of Police and to all the highest officials to be informed of important events, but this information is not crucial to informing them beforehand, as has been the case with trends. Just prior information allows for the possibility or perhaps only doubts that one of these officials could react and influence operational work. We therefore believe that this amendment adequately defines this and that there can be no real and professional concern that such an amendment, which defines it more specifically, would not be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment to Article 12? Yeah. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you very much. There was a very large debate on the amendment of this Article 12 and on the communication of the Minister on the Committee itself. Then there was a slight correction. It has come to the point that colleagues from Positive Slovenia initially wanted to delete any possibility of informing the Minister of the Interior by the Director of Police about matters that are security more critical. And they didn't like the diction. Then we changed a little bit, so it is said that the minister can also be informed of other events "from the police work area". This syntax from the work area, the police weren't in the original, and we came up with this. Now we see that this also does not seem appropriate to one of the members of the group and they add, "when this information cannot hinder and affect the way in which the police operate operationally". Look, here's where you have to think about what's behind it. In principle, I am convinced that the Minister, as a responsible person, who is politically responsible and otherwise, must be informed of all relevant matters in the field of police work, what the police are doing. In the Group of Social Democrats, however, they have found one protector to prevent this matter from happening so that the Minister can harm the operational functioning of the police. This is a lack of confidence in the country and a lack of confidence in the fact that every time a Minister is appointed, he has no interest in the police operating well. At the same time, it is clear that those who have recommended such a dictatorship to you have ever been in the police and intelligence services experienced the abuse of the police. And we need to look positive at the matter, we need to see that this should probably end once – police abuse. This comes from when the minister or then the secretary of state was in the previous system, he was able to tell the police: "Stop the matter." Even more. Not only did the Minister even have this opportunity to stop the police directly in the investigation of certain cases. The fruitage of such thinking and experience, as well as perhaps the tendency to do so again, is such a diction. Therefore, systematically in the undertone, as if the Minister of State is an anti-State element, has ever, in any option and from any party, been indecisive to me. And that's exactly it. According to your dictatorship, the Minister is literally an anti-State element or an element that fights against the suppression of, say, crime, corruption and so on. That's why I can't support such an amendment. Why not think positively that if the Minister is committed to such a matter and is bound by other laws on the protection of classified information and others, he will also be bound to protect all classified information or even non-disclosure information, that when the Minister has in his head that there is a case in question, he will be investigating it to the end, that the police investigation will be completed, to the end. Why are you not able to think positively? It is now time for all those abuses, police abuses or militias of the past and intelligence services that have worked so hard against people and human rights violations to be limited, deleted and considered to be some kind of democratic society, that ministers are doing their job. How it is possible, without this positive thought, to develop a democratic society if you try to say in every article that you are not trusting the minister in any way. It is also hidden here that it seems to you that the police are the bastion of the left and that the police or intelligence services are working in favour of the left hand, that you have some advantages, that you have some benefits of this and that such a place and such a situation should be made possible to the police especially at a time when they are in the power of a democratic new party, which is systematically challenged in the public and also in the media and trying to discredit them. I am against such dictions, which do not believe that the Minister is politically responsible, and you know as soon as someone finds out whether or not the Director of Police is going to say that the Minister is trying to stop such an investigation and such an investigation, that he is under the interpolation and that he is going to fall. The Minister has Damocle's only sword over him, and that's why it's the right thing to keep him informed. In this particular case, the Director of Police does not have such a Damocle sword over himself, such broad public control. The opposition and all Members are a reflection of the public and we are working for the public and we are monitoring and also asking parliamentary questions and I don't know what. That is why I am against such curly, perfidious dictions, which try to act like this, if we are left in power, then the police are in one way or another, because ours are there and they will act when there is no left in power, and then the Minister should know as little as possible that the police will be able to do as much as possible and actually do as they can. That kind of thinking, that kind of behavior is wrong, and that's why I can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I can see it's quite a few hands, so I'm opening the application. Mr. Gaspar Gaspar Music, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Now it was clear from the debate, so the police are mastodon left and so on, now that ours are there, everything is wrong. What's yours? What's ours? This is precisely wrong, this political message, that when the power in this country changes over a certain period of time, then normally everything changes, and people feel like it's actually exclusively political and not professional, that certain police officers will be subordinated to certain political interests and demands. It is stated here that the Chief of Police must report regularly to the Minister and, at his special request, to the work of the police and to all important issues in the police field. No one opposes this, but the police must be independent and independent. We know that the Minister of Political Affairs is a political person who has been elected to the elections. Its function, whether you want it or not, is political, and is also politically defined. However, the law should state that the police are not obliged to inform the Minister of operational tasks, of the operational work. That way the minister can actually reach out in any case and pick a target, if you do, and I'll get it on my knees. Just as the Minister has allowed himself to declare in advance, "it is nothing yet, you will see what will happen in Ljubljana and in Koper". Wait a minute. Where did the Minister get that kind of information? We're still waiting for what's going to be there, what's going to be in Cel and so on. Aren't these the messages that intimidate the menacing, revered minister? All that has been said is spoken out of the mouth of the Minister of the Interior, who is the first to ensure that citizens and citizens have a sense of security in this country. Not here. Here we talk again, "now that ours are there, but you're afraid when another one of ours comes along..." And let us cease, for God's sake, ours and yours! Cops, cops, and those who care about public order and peace, who care about the security of the state, are from all of us, no matter how we think or how we think, no matter what we like. The laws apply to everyone, from an ordinary worker to the President of the State. And this must be sacred to all of us. But it's not like that. I always feel like certain Members are obsessed with the past. It's always called the Udba, today we have the Owl, in this Owl, it's resuscitated, everything that's been staffed in the previous reference and people are being re-set. If it were really professional, and if it were to be in the proper frame of mind in normal countries, then it wouldn't be. Now, indeed, it is possible to clean up everything that was behind, move people away, clean up the archives in one way or another, or adjust the documentation that will suit you or some others. How long are we actually going to do this and play like kids in kindergarten? Until when are we actually going to accuse each other of back and back and back? Let us once draw a line and say back what was, you have sinned, you have sinned, it has been done wrong, because if it were done correctly, this country would be in better condition and in better condition. That's not how we did it. And I think that once and for all, we can all work together not to share, as far as this is concerned, in order to unify ourselves, for the sake of all people who want to live in a free, just and fair country. But not so that every time a minister can intertwine in his own way, he gets one way or another, and then we get information from the media that the minister is that, the minister is that. And the Minister himself allows such rhetoric to predict events, as long as it is, "Beware of me, beware of the one, the one and the third." It's not, Mr. Secretary, it could actually have been your lapsus, you can say a lot of things in a moment of mental confusion. But you are not a Member, Members can afford a lot of things, Mr Jerovšek allows himself at every point of the agenda, which suits him, always and on average, and does not choose the way. But that's not good. It's not good for anyone, it's not good for you, it's not good for us. I therefore wish that this strange and inappropriate and not the right policy would end once and for all. I want us to love each other, and I want us to respect each other. But that is why the culture of dialogue, respect, let us stop accusing one another and let us draw a new path that will really lead us on the road from the crisis. If not, we will spin in our hopelessness and we will spin and spin, and we will invariably lose time, days, weeks and years, and we will never, ever agree. I wish everything was different than it was in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. It's not you. It's not content. It's just that he mentioned you. You'll discuss it when it's time. Good. Replica by Mr Jožef Jerovšek, but I tell you that this was not a debate for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u60	Look, you're being rude to say that I've always allowed everything I own. Do I have the right to react? That's what you should be reacting to. I have been a Member for seventeen years here, and no one has ever told me anything like this, Mr President, who is now the President of Parliament. What do you call it, I'm in violation of the business of this national council! Then I wouldn't have been elected so many times, I'm sure I wouldn't. This is the desecration of the people who elected me, the electorate. And if it were true what you are, Mr. Misich, you now claim that I can afford and do everything that suits me, then after your recent talk, when you spoke of kings and kings, I am the king, and you have sacrificed the queen, you said. Then I'd be king. But in your midst, I don't really want to be king. You haven't cleared everything in your midst yet, you're freezing. Perhaps this freezing is also the product of your thinking, since you once spoke of Antarctica and then the freezing is logical. I do what is the duty of a Member of the National Assembly everywhere and consistently. I am committed to transparency, principle, incompetence and so on. When we talk about the law of the police – far from that in your debate between ours and yours, but you said in the previous debate, in the previous law, that your loved ones were yours, that they were respected at the time, and that the current police were not yours, because they were no longer respected for you. And here you have established this division. I would suggest that you be aware of your words in the future, because today you speak as if you were unaware of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to point out that for the first time, I have stressed that the Director-General of Police is a professional function. The Minister's personal trust is now needed to carry out this professional task. So it was said that trust must be a trustworthy person. Now I don't know if we're going to put all the functions on the level of personal trust in this country, because, according to some statements, it is also possible to ask members of the anti-corruption commission to be trusted by, for example, the Prime Minister or individual ministers or something. And this is the problem at which we start our discussion. Professional functions are professional functions and have professional ethics. High government officials and officials must act according to the legality of their profession. The proposed amendment is precisely the consequence of the professional concern of a young person who cannot have experience in this area of constant discourse by Mr Jerovska. Because experience in police work can also be such that pre-repetitions or a variety of things, which are linked to police work and to reporting and informing about this, can affect the progress of a police task. And that's what this is all about. The police must be non-political, the police must work in accordance with professional and ethical standards, which I hope are respected, I, as a citizen, expect to be grossed out by a police officer if I commit an offence, whether or not he knows which party I'm from. And just in case, I was engulfed by a police officer in Celje during the time of Minister Bohinc, and I consider the police officer to have done his job well. And that's what this is all about. That everyone in his place must do well in view of the responsibilities and responsibilities that he or she has. And there are limits that also apply to the minister. If you remember, the last time I read, the fact that the Minister had to be informed about everything was also problematic by the current minister, then the MP and the chairman of the committee, who said, "What are all these important questions, you can probably think of each minister in your own way. It will matter to someone if they close a Member, it will matter to someone if there was a carambole in his village, I don't know, it's a little difficult, but it's a constitutional decision." And that's right. It is therefore necessary to say when that border is overstepped when a minister is not allowed to be, because a political official is informed by the Director-General of the Police, because it is part of the tasks that the police must perform and his behaviour on the matter may have such consequences that the police are prevented from doing their job. Whoever sees a conspiracy here is inclined to conspire in his own conduct. I do not see this proposed amendment to the conspiracy, but I see only a self-limiting provision that states that the Director-General of the Police does not really have to report everything. The law states that it must not inform the Minister of what might affect the performance of an individual police task. And that's all. And there are no great stories and no historical dimensions. This amendment is intended to enter into force after its adoption in the National Assembly but will have no retrograde effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Minister Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I will only respond to relevant matters, I will not talk about mental confusion and similar matters, because this is not a matter of police law. But if anyone thinks it is, it's his business. The forewords that have been discussed here are people who, let's say we know something about this, the former Attorney General, Mr Zaberl, who has been writing textbooks in the field of police powers and has been learning for decades and more from these textbooks, and he doesn't know what a foreordaining would be. In short, speaking in mind. As far as the article we are talking about is concerned, this is an amendment to Article 12, but only some matters need to be separated. The Minister may, as is the case in the current law, as is the law before us, and not in this Article 12, Article 12 speaks of what the Minister will be informed of immediately. So this right now means after the event. And when an event has already taken place, the minister probably has no bearing on it. That the Minister may be informed of everything, it is perfectly clear, but that is what another article is talking about and not this article. The case stems from a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has already assessed it, and it is also very well written in a 2001 legal opinion written by eminent lawyers, not some right-wing orientation, but a left-wing orientation, and the reviewer was Dr Jerovšek. It also makes it very clear that the Minister, based on the legal and constitutional arrangements, can be informed of everything. The Minister also directs and supervises the work of the police. However, guidance ends after the law now in force and under the law before us when the prosecutor took over the matter. So we're not changing that at all. So here we are talking about what the Minister is immediately informed about. Let's take a case from practice. Take a flood, say Log under Mangart, a bigger security issue, a more difficult safety issue that has a reaction in the public, take some major traffic accident like it was on Dolenjka about two years ago, with more than ten vehicles involved, and so on and so on. These are the cases where the Minister is thought to be notified immediately. However, these are examples of events that have already taken place, and nothing else. So this is what we're talking about, and I think it would be good to talk about things that are the subject of an individual amendment and not an idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Kavtičnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We're probably going to repeat ourselves on warnings, and that's nothing bad, because what's said more than once, then it's easier to understand. Since the Minister is a political person, and the police are not supposed to be, the work of the police is for all citizens and citizens who have to be assured that they are feeling good in this country, so there is a need to make a distinction here, and the law must also make it impossible for the Minister to directly influence the work of the police. Today it has been said, of course in these emergency situations, this is something else, but we also need to know that there are people at the top of the police who are still well aware and react when needed. So today it has been said that we do not trust the minister and so on. And right here, I don't think the Minister trusts the director of the police and all the hierarchy that follows her because he wants to have an influence and a direct look at every job. I don't know, Minister, whether you want it or not, but this law allows you. If the amendment is accepted, some sort of blinding can be done here, so that the Minister cannot have direct influence. Now, because many times it has been said what we want, what we think or even what we want. Look, even in public, it was triggered after Voduška's arrest that the Minister had to speak to the Prime Minister because he had not been informed of this before. Yeah, look, that's how it was, and it was also kind of written in the media and so on. This is the thing that circled. And it will always happen if this dictatorship remains as it is now, if the law does not make it impossible for the Minister to have direct influence. That's why this sum needs to be erased from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, you want a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u68	Just for the sake of objectivity and the public. I wasn't on any defense. But if that's what the media is talking about, it's very typical of our media. I made it very clear that I was informed of the Voduzek case after his arrest. Moreover, during the government's meeting, because of the government's meeting, I received a notice after the government's meeting when Mr Voduzek was already under arrest. And whatever else the media is writing or whatever you're talking about, it's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Here you go, replica, Mr. Cavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you. [[..]] Minister, I really feel a little sorry for you. Is that what happens after every arrest that the government calls you to and informs you that you've been arrested?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The replica could be on any one of the speakers. Dr. Gorenak, for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u72	Yeah, just for a little while. The Minister is not informed of all matters. That's clear. The police have hundreds of thousands of events, procedures and so on, and the Minister physically cannot be informed of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! I will not talk about individual Members, I will not evaluate the statements of individual Members, I do not want to judge the work of others, I wish that we behave in this room. I don't want people to say it's a kindergarten, so I'm going to say how I feel about the marriage and how I feel about the amendment tabled in article 12 of the law. The proposed law, in my opinion and in the opinion of our Slovenian People's Party's Group, brings more professional, efficient and rational action and systematic police development, which is expected to be finalized by the adoption of a strategic document, a resolution on the long-term development programme of the police of the Republic of Slovenia. This will make it easier to plan and allocate financial liabilities in the budget and also to make a commitment to the police not to change their priorities every year. With regard to the amendment to Article 12, I believe that the article refers to the obligation to inform the competent minister by the police director of various events that may have wider consequences, such as national security, loss of life and the like, including events that have a greater public response. It is, in fact, a copy of the provision of Article 5 of the Police Guidance and Control Rules, with which there has been no problem so far. It may be strange that the Minister himself in the Rules of Procedure sets out the scope of the information on the events to which he is entitled, and therefore, in my opinion, the writing of this provision in the law is more appropriate. It should be noted that this is only an event-specific notification, not specific information, of individuals involved in the event, but not of other operational information. So there's too much fear about the Minister's influence on the course of a police investigation or something else, so I'm not going to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u76	Your Honor! I cannot go beyond the debate that my colleague Jerovšek had. Indeed, he has the longest internship in the National Assembly, so he should know that the function performed by his colleague Preseknik is the Vice-President, not the President. And that was very well explained by my fellow Vice-President in the Echoes, for which we thank him. How should we suddenly have a President-in-Office without an election without everything – it is not true! So, you're the vice president, with all due respect, you have all my sympathy, but you have to tell me how things are. Look, we're actually preparing today's law for some new government. This government closes its mandate after one year, apparently, and if this were to happen to the Pahor government, which has completed its mandate after three years, and we have heard so many self-sings on the part of what a disaster and what a failure it is, then I would not be assessing what is actually forecasting here today. The lack of confidence in the field is great, we see events in the streets. Therefore, we must be very careful about such laws and prepare them in such a way that, regardless of who will be the Minister in the coming term, he will not have these matters to interfere with, in the sense that the Director of Police or the Director-General of Police must inform him of the events that are taking place. But here, of course, the events, such as Mr Minister correctly counted, floods, Log under Mangart and something else, are not meant to be. And we know that it's very sensitive things when someone has to do a house investigation, right, that they decide, we know who, and then they can get information to hide, they don't have property anymore, and the property is transferred to someone else. Mr. Minister, I don't mean you in this case, but this can happen to us and it happens in practice like this. Therefore, the tasks of the Director-General of the Police and the Minister must be very clearly defined here. And that is what we want to do with this amendment. It is precisely that the Minister will master his work, politically and so on, and the Director-General will master his profession. You know, it was in this very mandate that the Minister of the Interior attached one of the branches of power. This is a unique thing in Europe, and I don't think that was right. This also gives rise to a lot of mistrust in the work, not in the police, but in the political bodies in this composition. I think that this amendment needs to be accepted in order to relieve the pressure on someone who will be Minister tomorrow or tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u77	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I reiterate that this is a matter where the Minister must be informed immediately. But you were talking about things that are written in a completely different article and not in that. That's one. And secondly, the minister didn't add anything to it. The D.A. can't join the D.A.'s office. If you speak and use the word "accompanied", the thing is clear – this is the law passed by this State Assembly and not by me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u79	You want a replica, Mr. Brulc? No, no, no. Since we have now completed the list of discussers on the amendment to Article 12, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. I am opening an application for a debate on the amendment or Article 12 of the Act. The application shall be made. We have three debaters. The first is Mr Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u80	I would like to point out once again that this dictatorship, which you have written down, must be immediately informed by the Director-General of the developments in the police field of work, when this information cannot impede and affect the way in which the police operate, is giving discretion to the Director of Police about what it informs and what it does not. Because the Director of Police can always say that this could mean that the Minister would influence something or that it would impede the course of the investigation. This is a discretionary right, and this is essentially giving the police exceptional powers for abuse. Extensive powers. Where, however, you have the guarantee that there will be no police director who will rise to such a high position and enjoy this, that he will be able to control people and that he will be able to influence the progress of the police investigation and will say discreetly, "I will not tell the minister." And things will go in the direction of human rights violations, violations of the law. We can't give this discretion to the Director of Police. And the police are a very repressive body. And all discretionary rights in the decision-making of a police authority or a police officer who is not controlled are harmful and dangerous to citizens and the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Ficko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Good-bye! The powers of the Minister under this Article are, in my opinion, in the spirit of the politician Janez Janša. Since the article further provides that the Minister shall be informed of other events which may have a greater response in the public. I don't see why the provision is broader. It can, of course, be subjective assessments, allowing manipulation and abuse. It is not that the minister should not be informed, but that he is given the opportunity to decide what is public and what is not. This will obviously be decided by the CK if, of course, he still rules in advance. I will therefore support the amendment to delete the additional text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I will also support this amendment, because it seems to me that the Director of Police must also be relieved of his responsibilities to suck up to his minister. The director of the police, whoever he is, must have his chance to judge what needs to be informed. But if a man doesn't have his own spine, he'll keep the minister informed of all things. And I think that what is written in this amendment is actually no harm, although the substantive amendment also constitutes a duplication under the Police Guidance and Control Rules, which states that the Minister's information should not be focused on operational police information, but on the event itself. The notification to the Minister shall also not contain any personal data of suspects of crime. In short, this opens up a field where it is very appropriate in this future composition of government. Therefore, in fact, I think that the Minister should be truly informed only of those events and data relevant to the security of the country, for major natural disasters, but not by "saying," that the Minister should then inform any of his correspondents that he should go there to see this and what was happening there before the law enforcement authorities come, or sooner than the prosecutor or anyone else. That's why I think this amendment makes sense, and I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk about Article 12? As I no longer see the desire for the debate, I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 48 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Who wants to talk about Article 48? I see a desire for a debate, I see Mr. Fish, that I would like to. Mr. Janez Fish, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Article 48 lays down the conditions for the appointment and discharge of the Director-General of Police, appointed and dismissed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister. This is in accordance with the appointment of the Directors-General, the Secretaries-General and the Directors-General of the Authorities in the composition of the ministries, as provided for by the Law on Public Servants. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this is the most clear definition of responsibility for either good or bad work by the Director-General of Police. Let us remember what happened in 2009 when we appointed the Director-General of Police or the Acting Director of Police. This week, Interior Minister Katarina Kresal did not elect any candidates at the invitation of the Director-General of the Police and Mr Gorsk proposed to act as Acting Minister, although the Minister should choose among the seven candidates who applied for the invitation. Shortly thereafter, a new Law on Police was adopted setting out the procedure for appointing the Director-General in the manner proposed in the amendment to Article 48. And Mr Goršek was then appointed Director-General. I believe that the rules of appointment must be clear and the line of responsibility clearly established. That is why I will not support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss Article 48 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia? It's a wish. I'm opening an application for debate. Four panellists have been reported and Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much. As my speaker has verified, the method of appointing the Director-General of Police, as provided for in the law, is the most rational and logical and contains all responsibility, both for this procedure and is, of course, appointed on a proposal from the Minister and confirmed by the Government. Here we received the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia, which restores the legacy of Minister Kresalova in this parliamentary bench. I'd say it's like larpurlartism if it was an art thing – an official for the sake of officialism. The Article has 21 indents and individual indents are still sub-divisions. I think that only this fact is enough for people to know that everything is written in such a way that the line of appointment is as blurry as possible and that there would be as much political discretion as possible, who would become the Director-General of the Police. [[advertising from the hall]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u89	We are now with Article 48 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u90	My colleague Kociprova, you think too much about the role of Parliament's President, who is now open, too enthusiastic. It would be good to follow this law and this procedure. I must say that I do not agree that this legacy of Mrs Kresalov would be returned to law. Members also need to advocate clear and simple laws that can be understood by everyone and it is clear to everyone what the naming procedures are So, I do not agree with this. [[...]] For example, I also cannot agree when, in the eighteenth indent, he says that all members should be present on the committee to propose names to the minister or minister. Although it's three-member, I think it's as important a conclusion as it is everywhere else. This is such a small thing, but it is a derogation from democratic procedures and I am everywhere for democratic procedures. Of course, I reject this amendment, because it is an amendment to fishing in mud and non-transparent placement of a police director – so the minister will propose a person he can trust and so be. And the minister takes political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Richard Branisel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President. I think we have an ideal opportunity to introduce into the law a provision that will be transparent, that will be systemic and that will be completely simple to carry out the appointment and discharge of the Director-General of Police. There is no need for us to apply a Sue generis procedure in the case of the Director-General of Police, a particular procedure from which we will actually work even science, why there is no good determination, and a reference to the application of the provisions of the law governing the system of public servants. These provisions tell us all how in a transparent, best way to choose the Director-General of Police. Taking a step back so that we will have a special procedure on three sides, which will apply only to the Director-General of Police, there is, in fact, no reason. Personally, I am opposed to some extra solutions for some special cases, for which there is no reason. I think that this law, which regulates the system of public servants, is quite appropriate and let us stick to it, is enforced and I think it gives the right results. I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u93	Mr. Joseph Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I see no problem in that if the procedure were a little bit more, I would not say complicated, but a little more in accordance with democratic principles. If we are talking about the autonomous expert committee participating in the appointment of the Director-General of Police, the Director-General of Police cannot simply be someone, but he must be very professional in particular. Don't mind me who spoke about Mr Goršk – he proved that he was good, that he was professional and that the police under his leadership were doing really well and well. However, if the Director-General appoints and disposes of a minister who is a politician, then there can be doubts that politics will have an impact on the work of the police. For if the Director-General is not a political and political climate, a ruling policy, then he can be replaced. If he does not do as he is told by the politicians, he does not do his work as he wants. But a politician could be someone who's not entirely professional. I am not talking about a minister who came out of the police force, who was also a militiaman, but I am talking about the possibility of someone else, because the law is going to be going on for a year, two years, and so on. And do not allow this option to make people at least start to doubt if not, and when people doubt it, they no longer feel safe. Therefore, I do not see the reason why the Minister and the motioners would not accept this amendment, which we have proposed in Positive Slovenia. Once again, I would like to say that in Positive Slovenia, we still want the police to work independently and to dominate the profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u95	Dr. Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Well, the current Director-General of Police has been appointed under the current law, which he has laid down as you suggest. But you said yourself that you wanted the police director to be an expert and everything else. What you're suggesting isn't. Your amendment to Article 48(3) reads as follows: "If the Director-General of Police does not have an examination for the exercise of police powers," which means that he is not a police officer, "there are professional experience required under this article to appoint the Director-General of Police under the law that this examination is carried out." Look, what you wrote is not some special art that would come out of the knowledge of Positive Slovenia, but it is a copy of the current, still valid article. This article, or what you want to bring back to the law, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, has stipulated that the Director-General of the Police may be someone who does not come from the police types. If you read previous articles or read your amendment a little more accurately, you will see that it is linked to 15 years of work in the security services, that it is one of the conditions. Look, it means what? This means that someone has a college, he has all the other conditions, and he was 15 years old, for example, the head of the gatekeepers, so he worked in the security service, or he was the director of a private security agency for 15 years, so he has experience in this area. Such a person who has never been employed by the police – I stress that she has never been employed by the police – could become the director of the police after the amendment you are proposing. There is no such case in Europe! Once again, look at the research task of the National Assembly, which was carried out in 2009, and you will see that such a system is unknown to Europe. We have, by comparison, also in other important services, institutions of this country, such as the Prosecutor's Office, laid down that the Attorney-General can become the Attorney-General and cannot come off the road or, say, the President of the Court, or anyone else. Then why would the police allow what you want someone to get off the road? I think it's wrong, I think it's only logical and right that the Director-General of the Police becomes someone who's already a police officer coming out of the ranks, and you want to bring someone who's not a police officer with this definition. One more thing, if we say a little bit about the parable that people will understand what I have already said in the National Assembly. If you read again what you wrote, so if the Director-General of the Police does not have an examination for the exercise of police powers, he is not a police officer, on the basis of the experience required under this article to appoint the Director-General, he is considered to be a police officer. One comparison: why not by this logic, the director of the hospital, the maternity ward, for example, would come out of the road and be appointed director of gynecologist status. Yeah, where did you see that? Where did you see that? We stand for what? That the Director-General of the Police becomes someone who is a police officer who comes out of a police force and meets all the other conditions. As far as appointment and resolution are concerned, so that I will not advertise again, the matter is arranged in such a way that it is completely the same and significantly more protected, so that it is significantly more protected than, say, the Chief General Staff, as Director of Sowe, and equally secure, both in the appointment and in the discharge, equally secured than any other Director-General of any Directorate in the administration. Exactly the same. Instead of that commission, it will be the official council, as it is for everyone else, and it can be resolved within one year of the appointment of a new minister. Like everyone else in this country, and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u97	Mr. Cavticnik, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Minister, for your complete reading. However, you have forgotten the first condition that is written here – the conditions that this law requires for the conclusion of a working relationship for the performance of police duties. That means it's a condition like all the other cops, and it's also a CEO. That means he has to be a cop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u99	Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u100	You're wrong! This means that he must meet the general conditions that he is a citizen, that he has such an education and so on and so on, that he is not punished, that he is not in criminal proceedings and so on. These are general conditions, not police status.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u101	Mr Jerko Čehovin has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you. If I continue with these illustrations provided by our Minister of the Interior, I could continue to think that it would be even easier if we put into law and there was even a smaller dilemma, if we say that every general police director must come from the Celje police academy. What they were now, and what the previous director was, and what the previous one was, is quite simple, then we have all the problems solved, as well as the minister, at the final stage. I mean, that's the logic you can make [[...]] On the other hand, I think that we must still be so clean that it is either the Director of Police or the Chief of General Staff, the Army or any such function that it is not exactly comparable to some other functions in the country, given the powers, given the area of work, to sensitivity, because here we face many different rights and freedoms of citizens and, on the other hand, clearly – security. But I'm not going to discuss these differences right now. We proposed this amendment because we thought it might be better for an independent commission than for a dry-cleaning official council to have these two sensitive functions. But what's interesting is the acrobatics. We took a look. The current law, which introduced the autonomous expert commission, was adopted on 26 May 2009. The outcome of the vote was 50 in favour, 27 in favour. Interestingly, at the time all members of the then opposition party SLS voted in favour of the law. Let me write them down: Bogowicz, Preseknik, Rybič, Žerjav, Kres. Members of the DeSUS were also among the supporters; at the time. It is true that time changes people, but I, as a non-member, cannot take responsibility for previous mandates and neither can I, of course, be surprised by such acrobatics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u103	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I thank you for this compliment about the Celjans in the police force, especially for the reason that you also collected those who were on the left, and Mr Goršek was also from Celje. Otherwise, what I'm particularly proud of is all my former colleagues from the local or regional level, so thank you very much for your recognition.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u105	The list of debaters has already been used. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, you do. I'm opening an application for debate. The application shall be made. Let me repeat, therefore, Article 48 and the amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Positive Slovenia Group. We have two debates. Mrs. Masha Kociper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again, I apologize. Before I completely questioned that you had gone to the next article, I coordinated with my colleagues. Your comment, Mr Jerovšek, however, was completely depressed. But it wouldn't have happened for the first time that we were talking about the wrong article, so I thought you were getting carried away again. We will briefly discuss Article 48. I'd have checked in sooner if I'd seen or heard your invitation, Chairman. The appointment and discharge of the Director-General of Police has been most mentioned in this law. As a result, with regard to the appointment of the Director of the National Investigation Office – and it is true, as the Minister says, that we have not made a special intellectual effort in Positive Slovenia in this article, because, as the Minister has stated, we are committed to maintaining the previous regime. In fact, extremely wrong, especially in systemic laws such as this, it seems to us that every two years the conditions for the appointment of top officials change. In the previous regulation, as now advocated by this amendment, very much professional work has been put in place, and a whole range of experts from various fields, from colleges and so on and have been established, also following a review of the comparative arrangements which, according to the then expert group that worked on this, represented some special added value in the appointment of the Police Director, who is – here I cannot agree with the predecessors – a little more than an official that the Official Council can decide on than in all other officials. Therefore, a decision has been made, a decision is possible for more and more species, they can be such, slightly different or completely different. What bothers me very much in this country is that every time the government changes, system laws are corrected in systemic solutions, sometimes for trivialities, sometimes for major changes. In particular, it bothers me if it goes from a higher standard to a lower standard. I don't know what if we all stand for an independent chief of police, then it was so disturbing in this group of three experts, independent, who chose him. I don't know what was so disturbing about that. What we believe could have been disturbing or could have been disturbing in the future is this greatly facilitated discharge of the Director. This is also disturbing for our client, because the director of police cannot really be resolved for his actions, even if he is professionally qualified, to be resolved in such an easy manner by the minister. This is what we believe is at the heart of the problem in this article and what has been better solved by the previous law, so we are only proposing that we remain in the previous regime. The director's dismissal is sometimes not necessary if there is a threat in the law, if there is a possibility in the law that one or two moves can do it, then this policeman, says this police director, will act normally in this style to protect his function; and we do not want that in this country! We do not want a bunch of obedient, obedient, terrified people who do not hope to follow their own profession and conscience, so that they will not be easily freed from the swing of their left hand. There's something else that I've been warning you about more than once. Such provisions, and this particularly pains me, also discourages capable people, experts to apply for such functions; because the function is not sufficiently protected and allows for political abuses, which someone who can do something about himself cannot afford. Just a few words more to this Minister's teaching that the Director of Police can get off the road after our amendment. I think that's a long way from the truth, Mr. Secretary. Article 2 specifies the conditions and the law states "in addition to the conditions laid down by the rules governing the conclusion of the employment relationship of public servants, the candidate for the Director-General of Police must meet the following conditions..." – which are then listed in the five points, this is what Mr Kavtičnik has already read – "to meet the conditions required by this law to establish a working relationship for the performance of police duties, to have at least an education under the second-degree study programme, 15 years of work experience in the field of the functioning of security or intelligence authorities..." Security authorities; I may also be considered by the police – pardon – "police detection or prosecution bodies", I consider that the police can "have at least 5 years of working experience in management jobs and that, on the basis of its current work or behaviour, it is reasonable to conclude that it will perform professional, fair and conscientious work". This is a bunch of provisions that show that the hospital director can't become the director of the police you wanted to convince us. If I only return to the first condition, the condition required by this law for the conclusion of a working relationship for the performance of police duties, and probably the law for the performance of police duties does not require a medical education, but instead, for some reason, the law for the performance of police duties requires a medical education. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Minister, if that's how we're going, isn't it? [[...]] Also, it must have 15 years of work experience in the field of the operation of security or intelligence authorities, detection or prosecution authorities, including a medic – likely. So please, the law is quite certain, regardless of this third paragraph, and by no means does it allow anyone to get off the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u107	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you. I guess we're gonna have to listen a little bit more, Mrs. Kociper. You have to listen, you don't grunt there, and then you say things I didn't say. These points are listed from 1 to 5. The first to speak of the conclusion of a working relationship for the performance of police duties. These are general terms. This is for joining the police. Second. To have at least that kind of education, anyone outside the police can have that. Thirdly, this is a little restrictive, but it says that it has 15 years of experience in the field of security, intelligence and security, detection, prosecution and so on. Among the security courts is the chief of gatekeepers who never worked for the police. So you want to bring him in. That's one. Secondly, look, we are in a time of coalition change or whatever, because after all, you can be in my place in 14 days or three weeks. Maybe. I don't know. If I were mean, but I'm not, and I don't want to be up to you, I agree, then I would support your amendments, and if you were sitting down -- eventually I'm talking -- my job would be tied up. There would have been a director who could never be replaced, but he would have survived you and another minister behind you or half a minister behind you. That would have happened if you'd been mean and supported by your amendment. So we want to have a situation with this proposal, such as the normal situation, which in the hypothetical case that I said makes it easier for you to do your job. Makes it easier for you, not for me. And one more thing. You're talking about changing regulations every two years in this area. This regulation, i.e. the method of appointing the Director-General of Police, was in force from 1998 to 2009, and this article has never been amended and was the same as around elsewhere in Europe. Who changed it? It was changed by Mrs Kresalova and these points, one, two, three, four, five and so on, were created by Mr Klemenčič's office. No studies were conducted, no in-depth studies were conducted, nothing was done. But the National Assembly is, I think I was the initiator at the time, at the time of the formation of the law – that is, the Analytical Service did an analysis of how the CEOs were appointed elsewhere in Europe. We found out there was no such case. Estonia has a similar situation but does not use it. A similar situation exists between Portugal and Belgium, which is never used at all, but by directors always within the police. I said that at the time, of course, I was not heard because Mrs Klemenčič sent this to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly accepted it for the most part. At the time, they even overlooked that they had a contradiction, and the contradiction is in that article, which speaks of what is now contained in the third point, precisely the third point, and this is the situation where you become a police officer because you are appointed Director-General. This is so and so stupid and related to oaths and all the other situations. Do you know why this third point came about? If I had not paid attention to this matter at the time, it would have been that we would have hired the Director-General, who would have gone to education with his subordinates in Tacen, to take the exams with his subordinates in Tacno, to have a mentor who would have taught him police work at the time he was already the Director-General. It was such a lapsus, an absurd thing that I warned about at the time, and then they wrote this point that you're proposing today. If the Director-General of the Police has not passed his examination for the exercise of police powers, he shall be deemed to be a police officer on the basis of this. This was only later written, so be careful. I think you're making a coalition or what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u109	Here you go, Mrs. Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I assure you that you do not have to worry about my interests, such or any other interests, or ours, but that we should all strive for an arrangement that will be the best for everyone. In this sense, the fact that this is a higher standard than yours, in particular in the case of resolution, and here we come up with a problem that we have been encountering all the time, and this is an understanding of your half of the hall about what appointments are like in functional cities. You think you are thinking exactly this way, as Mrs Potter said earlier, that all officials of your personal trust must be. The purpose of the mandate of officials defined in laws, which lasts for a certain number of years, is to have little overlap when they have to co-operate, for example, the Minister for Other Political Provinces and the Director for Other Political Provinces, which means that in this case, this co-habitation is looked at under each other's fingers and that is this "chakks and balances", brakes and balances that must work at all levels of public administration. Therefore, your party, I have repeatedly pointed out that it is best to amend all laws in a way that you write: the mandate is linked to each government mandate. Well, then, here we go. And then we avoid all these complicated procedures of appointment, resolution and so on. Well, then, here we go. Every official then is a person of trust who chooses and lasts with the talent and then goes. But for professional functions of such importance as the director of the police, this should not be the case. Therefore, please do not burden yourself with what I will or will not, or who will or will not, but let us find a solution that will apply in this sense forever. This solution, which we propose again, has endured in the system law, as you yourself have said, the poor fighting for two years. Poor boar two years before you started changing it with your first reading of the law. So I really don't think it's necessary to change here, back and forth, and now there's going to be a new coalition – God knows who's going to put it together – will it change again? That way, we're not really going anywhere in this country. At the first point, we're obviously not going to get together, and I still think that if you make a working relationship to perform your duties, the law requires you to be a cop. You obviously don't think so. We're gonna clear this up somewhere else, and from now on, I'm gonna hold this debate, because I can see it's not going anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u111	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u112	One more time. The one who makes a working relationship for a cop is probably not a cop yet, so he comes to the police and doesn't have police skills, that's what you have to say. However, as far as politics is concerned, the solution I propose is significantly better than what you are proposing. Someone who is a police officer and becomes the general director of the police should never have been a member of any political party in the past, because it prohibits the constitution. So we have police officers who are not members of political parties, and only you can become CEO if they meet the condition. So we have a clear political situation. What you're proposing, especially with a third point, is what you're saying you don't want, but the result is that. Why? However, if someone comes to the chief of police outside the police, after all, I do not know exactly what you were doing before you came to the National Assembly, but if we take that you worked in the field of justice, theoretically, through this Article, you could also become the general director of the police, and you are a member of the party, or either you were, or whatever. [[...]] Well, someone who comes from the outside may be a member of a political party, but someone who comes from the police is not a member of a political party because they cannot be a member of the constitution. That is why this solution is certainly better. In this way we will have a situation: that someone would become the director general of the police, freeze his membership card in a political party, as we knew before Mr Kučan, as we now see at your President's office, a little in the refrigerator for the time being, but it's okay! [[...]] This is not the case, it is a better solution for the Director-General to become a police officer because in the past he could not have been a member of a political party, but not if he was, for example, at a secondary police school in Tacno before 1998, when he was 15 years old. So this one will certainly be more apolitical than the one you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you, Madam President, for your word, Mr Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members. The amendment of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, of course, cannot be supported. Part of the debate had just been taken away from me by the Minister when I wanted to point out when the exposure was that the Director-General of Police could be a politically infected person. I deeply agree with the Minister and with the law-makers, because I am convinced that only those who continue to come from the basics from the police can be the good director-general of the police. Why is that? In fact, you know that I have been employed in the field of defence for many years, and there we also have a similar situation when it comes to appointing a Chief of Staff. It is an extremely important body in the composition: here, in the case of the police, of course, the police, and there, and in the case of the Chief of Staff. I am convinced that only one who comes out and has long work experience and has a career ahead of him can be motivated to become the general director of the police at the end of his career. What you are proposing in Positive Slovenia, of course, does not follow this principle, so once mentioned more, in the third subparagraph of the second paragraph, in fact anyone could become the Director General of the Police. It is such an important job in the police that I think that the one who is the Director-General must actually come from the ranks of the police and that what is now proposed is the return to the system before 2009, the only right. Of course, he also has my support because he follows the principle of expertise, not politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. There is still a desire to discuss Article 48 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. I'm opening an application for debate. The first is Mr Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! I am absolutely behind this amendment, which is being tabled by the Positive Slovenia, where we stand, as well as in the amendment to Article 50 below, we advocate that the matter be regulated as it has been regulated. I would not agree with colleague Sonja Ramšak, who says that we could now appoint or appoint after this amendment the Director-General of the Police of any person, since, once again, in paragraph 3, our amendment also accurately provides for the conditions under which someone can be appointed as the Director-General of the Police and these conditions are very clearly expressed in paragraph 3. More than that, however, I would focus on that question, or that part of the amendment, which concerns the appointment of a commission or the opinion of a commission that has so far been in force and which has so far done very well in the appointment of the Director-General of Police. I am aware of the need for the autonomy of the Minister, but it is okay to have a mechanism through which the Minister is assisted in the selection of the Director-General. This three-member commission, which is independent, has its own special purpose and it would be useful to retain this importance. We're not looking at the state we're in today. Minister Vinko Gorenak, you come from these kinds and I know confidently that you are an expert in this field, that the choice of the CEO, at least from this point of view, is a very simple thing for you: you know people, you know their abilities and appointment is very easy. At this point in time and at such times in the future, it would be normal for such a minister who is familiar with the field to also appoint the Director-General in the manner you propose. But hypothetically, what about tomorrow? Or should I ask Mrs. Masha Kociper to come and see you? Mrs Maša Kociper, of course, set up for political reasons and political reasons. And she doesn't have that much look at people, she doesn't have that much look at the activity that's taking place at the Ministry of the Interior. Mrs Maša Kociper will be very helpful in such a case, and a neutral committee will be welcome to give an opinion on the proposal, to appoint a Director-General or to resolve it. That is why I would say: our amendment is not launched for this situation, but we are looking a little further, we are looking at things that will certainly change, and then this neutral commission would have its very great meaning and significance. I do not understand that you have so much resistance and that you are so contrary to these definitions, because this is nothing more than what has already been said: one higher standard for the appointment of the Director-General, as well as his discharge; a higher standard for which we stand in our amendment and we think he is very placed and I see no reason why there is so much opposition on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I am a supporter of the career system in the official part of our country, in particular in the state administration, which assumes the individual's interest in meeting professional standards as best as possible in the performance of his work. Therefore, it seems to me that it is also possible to listen to the demands of police officers who, in the past, have applied to the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and who considered it a violation of the Constitution that they should not be members of political parties. But when, on the other hand, I look at the experience of some Members from a distance and now the holders of important political functions in the executive branch, it seems surprising to me how well they have always been informed within this system and have always been the bearer of a lot of information, perhaps even more information than perhaps the one that has been Minister of the Interior in the past. At least that's what my experience with committee meetings tells me. But this is not even a fundamental problem, because on an intimate level probably everyone, regardless of the political party's formal membership, has this political belief because we are also political beings. But that's why I'm so worried about what I was talking about before; that appointment to a job requires personal trust that these should be trustworthy. If this trust is based on expertise, then I don't mind; at what level of personal trust these things take root, I don't know. But look. More experience suggests that either repressive authorities or supervisory authorities must also have a good degree of independence. However, in this mandate, we have faced several times that the temptation to drop out has been very great. Remember, for example, the senior officials, such as the directors of the Directorates, who have flown in a row, regardless of the quality of the work they have done, have been removed from work, where their expertise has not even been used, and now we will be in some environments of the Directors of Directorates, 9 of them at some Ministry, but they have just been appointed for a full 5-year term. What kind of trust is that? On what basis is this trust based? If there are people among them who are in the process of an anti-corruption commission or in any other procedure where their credibility and alleged contamination are verified. So there is a broad field of gray in the appointments, I would say, foxy, and therefore I think the intention of Positive Slovenia to narrow this possibility of quick resolution of politically incompatible persons is welcome. Just as I feel welcome by an expert committee, I believe that an independent one who can measure very accurately the professional competence to perform an individual task. And that is essential in these appointments. Just as I would like to see in those cases where there is a clear discerning difference in the conduct of the police in individual incomes, that there are also some institutions in place in addition to those internal control mechanisms for this, institutions, so that it will be clear that some authorities, however you want to call it, which, from the point of view of impartiality, expertise, neutrality, will assess the society's key behaviour of the repressive authorities. That would seem essential to me. Mr Minister did not want to understand what I meant at the time of the interpretation, and, as usual, he attributed ignorance to me: Pre-reception, Mr Minister, is a pre-arrest event. The Minister must not be informed by the Director General of Police what the police intend to do. And that's what this is all about! And now if you want, I can be even more direct, but I promised not to talk about individual cases. That's what this is about! The politician must not be involved in the tasks and work of the police, as the Director-General of the Police or any one of the holders of important functions should not be dismissed because he was doing his job well. And we've been witnessing discredits lately, if people have done a good job and then the squirrels are looking for each other, but they can't see each other. This is the fundamental problem that is worth discussing. I think that the desire to establish a career system was also at the heart of the work of a former Minister of the Interior, and if it were so that a career system would be firmly established in this country, then personal change in certain ministerial or other functions would not even be crucial, because these institutions would work well without the short-term absence of a minister or even a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Gaspar Gaspar Misic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u120	Vice President, thank you very much. Permanent interference with the expertise of the police is not good for the country. The political and non-professional appropriateness that we are going here today, that is, the career system, as Mrs Potrata said, must be based on expertise and not on political appropriateness, a respected minister. I think that all too much political influence on our public sector staffing system is, so the whole system is somehow politically contaminated and needs decontamination. Trust in the candidate must be based solely on his expertise and on his references and certainly not on political suitability. It is very interesting, Mr Minister, to shake the motion in the amendment, so that the Minister has more options to choose the right candidate, but the Minister must ask a special expert and independent committee for an opinion before submitting his proposal to the government. The Minister of Government cannot propose a candidate who, according to the Commission, is inadequate. Of course, in your proposal for a law you have no longer the possibility through an autonomous independent commission, but of course you have an official council, which, unlike the commission even counts 12 members, an autonomous commission only 3 but, in the end, the minister of the entire part of this official council or the commission of the official council may simply not take account of. He said, look, none of the candidates who might have reported 10 or more do not fit me for unjustified reasons, even you don't have to tell me why and how. Even here, the law allows you to ask for either a repetition of the procedure yourself or even better, which suits you to appoint a competition committee to conduct the procedure and to give you your instructions to make this appropriate. Then you have an opportunity in one year, Minister-respected, to replace the candidate just like that – how can we talk about some career training? We have the Director-General of the Police, who is exchanged after one year or, from practice, after a maximum of two years. How can the police do good, work independently if they act on it, if the top of the police, i.e. the head of the police, changes as the political power changes? If someone is professional and someone is good, then we must allow him to complete the period for which he was appointed Director General of Police. This is precisely why, as a result of such changes as the new political option or coalition or only the Minister of the Interior, we immediately replace the key people who should be independent and professional and always – at least in the past – have been hit and the number one was chosen for the target by the Director-General of the Police. How can citizens and citizens then be confident that they are subject to or under the influence, the exclusive influence of politics? Then how can we trust that we can be safe and — as I had in the debate before — feel free in this country if perhaps we are not thinking the same as the thinking of the ruling political option? I can't agree with you, and right here is that culture of dialogue, not that I will, because I have a different political belief, I can also be pursued by business, otherwise when I end up being a Member, for example. Not me, but anyone! That's not good. But this thought, the feeling that I have to think about whether someone is going to persecute me because of my political position today, is not good for the good of this country. Here, actually, a kind of autocracy rises, it actually happens that one person, one minister ignores everything and brings the right candidate to a position. Of course, he will meet the legal requirements, but he will be responsible to you. Let's say that a person is in the position of the Director-General of the Police and acts exclusively professionally, but at a given time it is not appropriate or does not like the current ruling option and the Minister will be able to influence, of course it has this option, and he says, listen if you do otherwise or not even have to explain it! [[...]] He simply says, "From tomorrow on, you are no longer the Director-General of Police." Who do you think will apply for such a function for such an important function? Who? Yeah, nobody! Each time a call from some politicians will bring their people, their armies, and they will take over certain functions that are extremely important for the normal functioning of the rule of law, and then we will trade again and then I will trade again. As we are used to in this country, we have elections every year and as it began, we will have no more regular elections, but they will always be extraordinary. It's been a year since you took power, and we're already talking about the new early elections. Otherwise, your president announced the first day when he was surprised at the defeat that early elections would take place. Here we are! We're back at the door of the early election. And also because of this, Mr. Secretary, this is happening to us because you wanted to mention Mrs Masha Kociper as Minister before, if she were you, that would have no impact on the Director-General of the Police. [[...]] Of course! Good morning! And he can't have it. He must not have a direct influence, at least not a political one! However, if the Director-General of the Police or the Director-General of the Police commits or fails to comply with his or her obligations as determined by its work cycle, he or she will again answer in accordance with the law. But not because of the will of one minister, who is a political official – by the way. Let us build this country on sound foundations or break down those foundations that are wrong, that are actually bad, that actually represent ballast and burden this country, so we are not moving forward from this armor, which is actually a big step into this history and it is repeated. Mr Minister, I am not saying that in the past the correct staffing of any government, left or right, has been one way or another, but I would like to say that once we have done this, and that we will say that from now on we will no longer be in the workforce as it has been in the past, because it has not been fair and fair, but we will be in charge solely of professional and other references. Only then can you get the right attitude of someone who will take a high position, that he will also get confidence and that citizens and citizens will accept such a function and such a position as the Director-General, and that we will feel safe in the country when we talk about the Ministry of the Interior when we talk about the police. Because the basic task or mission of the police is to care for the safety and well-being of citizens and citizens, not to make citizens and citizens feel threatened if they may have slightly different thoughts than those in power. That's all you need to understand. If you understand that, then you will accept and even after I finish this speech, you will say that the amendment is okay, because it is wrong that I, as Minister, have an influence on the choice of this candidate. You have an expert committee. Don't you trust your colleagues who just graduated from the same school? Don't you trust the people and experts who are going to propose a candidate for the Director-General of Police?Oh, my God! What good is this commission of the official council if you can throw it away! That's what it says. Isn't that a little funny?Oh, my God! You can actually say no one suits you, and you name your commission. Where are we?Oh, my God! This is not Romania, this is Slovenia, and even Romania has been more advanced since then! At the time of Ceauşescu, it happened that one man could say, "No, you're not fit, he's suitable for this and this!" And tomorrow, if he wasn't right, he said he didn't answer him anymore. No, Mr. Secretary, you're not God! Neither do I. Here's democracy, not self-cracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u121	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you. I'm not going to respond to the part I did at the time of the interpolation. In the part where you talk to your constituents because you have monologues because you talk about things that are not on the agenda – I will not respond to that. It's your business, the matter of your reflection. But you're not going to teach me where and who I'm going to replace under this law. Under this law, I will not replace any general police director. The Director-General of the Police, who was appointed last year, was appointed under the provisions of the law that is in force today, and this is also the subject of your amendments. So I took the hard way. On the hard way to prove to you that I have counted on you to be able to behave roughly as you are now, Mr Misic, so I went into the procedure of appointing the Director-General after the law currently in force or after the amendments you are proposing. Besides, that's what you have to say. Until 2009, we had a number of calls for the Director General of Police, who had several candidates, including 15, 20. But when Mrs Kresal's law changed in 2009 – that is, she did something different, she did what you are now saying. But you speak of course, now if you were talking about it, then your speech would be very relevant in 2009 or 2010 and not today because you don't know what you're talking about. And she did what? She said she wouldn't pick anyone. In fact, at the time, the former Director-General, Mr Romšek, retired, then Minister Mate announced the invitation to tender and 15 candidates arrived. He did not choose, for good reasons, because Mrs Kresalova was coming, but he gave her a table: Here you have a choice, choose by your taste. She threw it in the trash bin, set it up in d.C. and changed the law. And changed the law. Under the amended law, one candidate applied. This is how you judge your performance and your speech in 2010 and not today. You're not going to tell me that I have any intention of changing the current CEO. He was appointed under the law that is in force today and according to the provisions that you have prescribed in the form of amendments, so that these matters simply do not come into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Muscle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you. Of course I have a replica. Minister, you said my debate was not in the context of the agenda. Let me refer exactly to what is stated in the bill and what this law actually brings. Among these candidates, the official responsible for the position selects the one most appropriate, and the decision officer does not need to be specifically explained, that is to say, to the Minister. If the official responsible for the post assesses that none of the candidates on the list submitted are listed, the list submitted by the 12-member official council may be requested from the official board to repeat the procedure – this could be where the procedures could end up to repeat. No, there is even greater autonomy here for you, Minister, to give – or to appoint itself a competition committee to carry out the procedure. Please tell me if it's not too much authority for the minister, too much self-determination, what we need anyone. We could've cut the law short! Look, almost the whole page is written about this 48th article. You could say that the minister himself should choose the right candidate for the post of Director General of Police, and we are done. I'm an item, a dot. We have a lot of options to blur out that this was actually the official council, the 12-member council, there were a lot of candidates, the minister had a difficult job and yet he chose the right candidate. Of course, normally, not on the professional side, but on the political appropriateness or appropriateness. Even though, Minister, it is not so, it is not right that you, as Minister or any minister, decide that this may indeed have been Mrs Kresalova in the previous reference. I said it wasn't exactly what was done before, if it was done in such a way that candidates were selected according to political relevance. Then we can't talk about any career training. Who, Mr Minister, is really and truly capable of deciding for the post of Director-General of the Police if he already has a job that is appropriate or good because he knows that within a few months, within one year, he can actually fly out of that position and then he has a lot of trouble getting back any other job, but you know. Therefore, Minister, withdraw this proposal from the law or, as Minister, cancel for other ministers, ministers who will come after you, will not be appropriate. I would like to hear you if this law were to be adopted, in another next reference, when you would actually allow the Minister to choose directly from the candidate's opinion what you would then comment on. This political recruitment has brought this country into this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u125	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u126	an inappropriate and inappropriate situation. [[...]] Because we do not allow the profession to come to the surface, we are guided by politics, and the entire human resources system is politically contaminated. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u127	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I don't know what to say. Mr Misič, we have the Police Act and not the Law on Public Servants, you are quoting the Law on Public Servants, and we are considering the Law on Police. But it is Article 82 of the Constitution and your freedom, in smart and stupid discussions. Both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I note that we have used or been using the entire list of debaters in the framework of our applications, but are we now moving on to the next article or is there anyone else who would like to discuss? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to Article 50. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendments tabled by the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss article 50? Mr. Janez Fishich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. The National Investigation Office, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, cannot be an organisational unit in the clouds, but must be placed in the Criminal Police Authority because of its specific role in investigating the most serious crimes. Therefore, in our view, the appointment of the Director of the National Investigation Office should also be the responsibility of the Director-General of the Police. As with Article 48, this Article refers to a reference to the Law on Public Servants or its provisions on the appointment and discharge of the Director of the Authority in its composition. We believe that such an arrangement is appropriate, so we will not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on Article 50. We are moving on to Article 74, which I am putting to the debate and to the amendments of the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate on Article 74. And we move on to Articles 79a and 109. Today, the amendment applicants tabled an amendment published in the section e-club. So this is an amendment to the 79th and 109th articles of the SDS, DL, SLS, DesSUS and NSI. Anybody want to talk? He wants to discuss Dr. László Göncz. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-worker! As you have already rightly stated, there has also been a change in the amendment today, I stress this because the position of the Legislative and Legal Service has made this conditional, and therefore it has to be re-coordinated with the text of the amendment. I must say that when we first read this law, we have only found some inconsistencies in this area, but we did not foresee a concrete change mainly because we wanted to regulate this area within the framework of the drafting universal law on the national community. But then, on the basis of the negotiations of the ministry with the police unions, this content has also been addressed, and now, I will say, the post-festum we are looking forward to this, because in one system law on the functioning and organisation of the police, this area can also be properly defined. So I don't want to be too long because I think there have been a lot of coordination at all levels over the past two weeks, both with the police union and with the ministry, as well as with the clients. I must conclude that this debate has been held very properly. The text that is now published in our network is also extremely correct and also constructive, and that is the final text. I would also particularly like to commend and highlight the importance of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has also responded correctly to all the inconsistencies that have occurred in the somewhat premature stage of the creation of this text in hand, and we hope that there has indeed been a good clear text, which is mainly from the point of view of national communities, but also from the point of view of the functioning of the police in the national mixed area with constitutional positions, a conditioned issue, and I believe that we have been able to move forward. I would also like to point out what Mrs President has already mentioned that article 79 is related to Article 109, which is why it is important that we read both proposals together, since this also answers the questions raised last time at the committee meeting when there was still a lot of controversy and confusion. In short, for the national community where Mr Battelli and I have consistently coordinated – I am talking about the organisation of national communities, Italy and Hungary – the proposed text is fully acceptable and I call on all Members and Members present, as well as those who are not at this time in the Chamber, that is, all parties to support this truly universally coordinated text. Once again, I thank all those who have participated constructively and constructively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can still see the desire for a debate, so I am opening up applications for a debate. Mr. Battelli. Anybody else want some? Here you go. Check in. Mr. Roberto Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. In 1955 a magazine was published in Italy, and its prestige continued unshakable throughout these years. Of course, it has its own direction, but it is extremely professional and extremely objective, in-depth dealing with things and extremely credible. At that time, the founder of this magazine in his first edition wrote something that I have left in my memory and that I am also now using to deal with matters that concern all of us. Among other things, he wrote that the purpose of the creation of this magazine is also that when a person looks out of a window on the other side of the road, a man who is symbolically protecting an institution of a democratic state, he will no longer be afraid; I am talking about 1955. So you can understand the importance of this amendment and this article for the national communities in Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u135	Mr. Battelli, please, if you can just turn off the microphone for a few seconds, because you obviously don't have time to count down.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u136	I'm done. I won't be too long. You know, this is extremely important because what it says here is based on respect and trust, it's more than just a symbolic meaning. Such standards are very important for actual co-existence. I also thank all those who participated in the drafting of this text. This was an exceptional example, a fine example of taking into account all views, and I believe that this article will also come to life in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 80 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 83 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss Article 83? No one wants to discuss Article 83. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday, 30 January 2013, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item — Second defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Animals under the ordinary procedure The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. I see that Mr Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Mr Franz Bogovic, has joined us. The word is yours. Then we also move on to the presentation of the Committee's report. Now he will present to us the amendment and the amendment of the law, Mr Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you are most welcome! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act has been prepared by the profession for more than a year. Various professional associations and NGOs participated in the preparation. The content is not a major change and the proposed law is therefore submitted in the form of amendments and additions to the existing law. The proposed amendments to the law are based on the principles of responsible ownership and humane treatment of animals. It prevents the suffering of animals, ensures adequate information for citizens, optimise administrative actions, as well as sanctioning infringements. The proposal covers: firstly, changes in the field of animal experiments that comply with the requirements of European legislation as set out in Directive 2010/63, the proposal introduces principle 3R, which means replacing experimental animals with other methods, as little as possible the number of experimental animals and improving the conditions for the rearing and care of experimental animals and the conduct of experiments. Secondly, the implementation of Council Regulation 1099/2009 on the protection of animals with regard to killings. The animal is allowed to be slaughtered only by being killed at the moment or by appropriate prior stunning, including at the time of ritual slaughter. There is no place in Slovenia, and no ritual and stun slaughter will be prohibited in the future. It will be prohibited to slaughter animals alive, not restricting religious freedom, but protecting the welfare of animals. The slaughter without stunning is only allowed in Slovenia if it is a slaughter of poultry, rabbits and rabbits outside the slaughterhouse for private domestic use. Thirdly, updating definitions in particular regarding experiments, keepers of animals, dangerous animals and dangerous dogs. Newly dangerous will also be the attacking dog and the one who endangers the environment because of its uncontrollability, not just the one who bites a man or an animal. The keeper of the animal means the person responsible for the animal and is not necessarily the owner of the animal. Fourthly, it improves data coverage for the management of the central dog registry. Data on the origin of the dog will be required to prevent illegal trafficking in animals, shops where dogs and cats are sold. Fifth, regulation of control in public places and at the municipal level. The bill confers on the municipal authorities the competence to deal with the physical protection of animals, dogs on public occasions, and in cases of conduct of criminal proceedings, including labelling checks, it is said to microchip dogs. I am convinced that by proposing amendments to the law in addition to the implementation of European legislation, we are raising the level of animal protection in several areas, especially in farming, trial and slaughter, so I propose that you adopt the law to Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u140	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished Mr Minister with fellow Members, a nice greeting! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Environment held its second reading at its 17th meeting on 10 January. In accordance with Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was also sent to the local communities, but their opinion was not available. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, representatives of the professional and interested public took part in the meeting of the Committee, which also forwarded their written comments to the Committee. The Committee also received its written opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry, Food and the Environment. The representative of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, as the Commission of the Council of State, pointed out, among other things, that they considered article 19 of the bill to be an activity of public interest which includes advice to animal guardians. The Chamber considers that this would affect the area of competence of agricultural advice. The President of the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia expressed the belief that the law already in force provides a sufficiently high level of animal protection, only the provision of the law should be implemented consistently. The Chamber also supports the idea of establishing a register of cat owners and the visible designation of wild cats after sterilisation and castration. The representative of the Slovenian Muslim Community drew attention to a provision that prohibits the slaughter of animals without stunning and does not allow exceptions, which he considered for Muslims and Jews is a prohibition on slaughtering animals which is prescribed in accordance with their faith. The position was also presented by a representative of the Vegan Initiative, who opposes the breeding of animals for fur, as it represents unnecessary torture of animals and the death of animals, and fur is no longer of vital importance for anyone. In support of this request, we have also received a petition with 6,000 signatures. The representative of the Civil Initiative for the Improvement of the Legal Protection of Animals made a comprehensive justification for the two proposals, firstly, the proposal to introduce mandatory registration and chipping of cats and secondly, that society should also be granted the right of information on the inspection procedure in the public interest to all of them. The representative of the Society for the Protection and Assistance of Animals in Trouble and Lika explained the initiative of their company to prohibit the use of domestic, foreign animals, wild animals, pets and farm animals in the circus. In the debate on the individual articles, the amendments tabled and the amendments proposed by the Committee, which were mainly drawn up on the basis of a proposal by non-governmental organisations, the members of the Committee supported the proposed amendment. They cautioned, however, that the proposed solutions, which are aimed at ensuring greater animal welfare, will achieve their purpose only when they are seriously implemented. A few more points where more discussions took place. With regard to the third provision of Article 3, a discussion was held mainly on the possible introduction of labelling, chipping and registration obligations in the Central Register for cats. With regard to the solution referred to in Article 7 relating to the protection of animals taking place at fairs and public gatherings, the members of the Committee supported the proposal of the SDS Group of Ambassadors concerning the provision of Article 8 where the proposal of the Vegan Initiative for the Prohibition of Fishing and Hunting of Animals was solely for the purpose of obtaining their furs, the Committee also supported this proposal by a large majority of votes. The debate on Article 15 was controversial and it was whether to allow slaughter without stunning or not. The Committee did not adopt the proposal to allow a slaughter without stunning. On the basis of Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drawn up and adopted the following amendments: two amendments to Article 2, two amendments to Article 3, to Articles 7, 8 and 12. Two amendments to the amendments to Article 25 and two amendments to Article 27. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 8th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 January 2013. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI. Anybody want to talk? I can see that he does, so I'm opening an application for debate. The application is, therefore, an amendment and a debate on Article 7. We have 4 reported debaters, the first has the word Mrs Janja Nazast.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. I will support this amendment because this is a novelty in this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act. This is the protection of animals taking part in recordings and public gatherings, events similar to circuses, except gatherings, when administrative units from the veterinary authority are requested for prior consent. In fact, in the performances of trained animals of wildlife in circuses and other similar events, I see nothing inspiring and I think so-called new circuses and other similar events are more artistically developed and interesting, and in addition they are even more educated and more humane. The most problematic problem in this law is certainly unnecessary animal suffering, and this amendment solves this, including due to the following definitions – I will just summarize the Circus website without animals. In fact, inadequate accommodation of circus animals, training of circus animals, transport of them, then also for safety reasons, because of possible human victims, because of animal stress, there is also an inappropriate educational impact on children, because the training does not show their natural state or movement, including the decree on living conditions and the care of wild animals in captivity, conditions stricter criteria for the movement of such animals, even for those up to 500 square metres, which was not regulated by any regulation. With the adoption of this amendment, we would also join the major countries that have completely banned circuses with wildlife, such as Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sweden, Finland, Costa Rica, India, Singapore and Bolivia, in many countries, a number of municipalities, a total of as many as 12 countries, and a large border has also reached Switzerland since 1 April 2003, when radical changes have taken place where animals in Swiss legislation have been declared no longer to be among the things and the current status of animals in Switzerland between the legal entity and the matter. Relations and obligations of people to animals in legal and criminal terms: I will also support the amendment to Article 25 of this proposal. Infringements which constitute a serious threat to animal welfare are classified in the highest category of offences, so that I will also support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Croat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, all present and welcome! In fact, the purpose of the amendment of this law was to comply with the European Directive, the Directive of the European Union relating to animal trials. I am pleased, however, that all of us have joined the wider improvement of the Animal Protection Act. In the course of the discussion on the working body, an amendment was adopted, where we unanimously supported the proposal that circuses with wild animals in Slovenia should no longer take place. I think that this is a big step forward and because it has been exposed in the debate itself also to the fact that some could exploit and not have this in the article of the law, so we have decided to prepare an amendment which speaks of adding a word link "and circuses of similar events". So now it will no longer be ambiguous: it is simple, wild animals in Slovenia at such events, similar to circuses, will no longer be. In our Group of Members, we are extremely pleased that civil society has been so strongly involved in the debate itself in changing this law, in fact, we have been choked with proposals and, given the latest responses we are receiving, it is likely that all of you Members and Members of Parliament are very pleased if we accept these amendments on our tables today. If this is adopted unanimously, it will be a major contribution to some atmosphere that is currently lacking in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u146	I am pleased that the Slovenians are not a nation to enjoy the torture of animals. Moreover, as it appears, this amendment will be united and unitedly supported by all the parliamentary groups. Furthermore, it is also important that all the proposals that we, as our Group of Members, have mentioned have been made on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you, Madam President. I will support this Article 7 myself. Representatives of civil society, particularly with various proposals, also addressed me. But I can also say that I look forward to having him here in these articles not only with the amendments, but with the whole law that there is some real consensus in the National Assembly. Somehow I find that some of the values in Slovenian society are still high and, above all, we share them. But to those who may be watching us through the media, he may also have raised some concerns, especially in directing a circus of similar things. Of course, we must not forget that it is primarily wild animals. I'm having second thoughts about our paradoxical Lipsticks, about hunting dogs, so that no one would think it's a ban then. This is a matter of wild animals, so those who may somehow read superficially so as not to come into any dilemma, that we have begun to limit our own or some part of the identity of our nation. Of course, I look forward to it. I believe that the animal protection law has a broader social significance. Through this law, through the implementation of this law into Slovenian society, it is also a matter of raising our citizens and citizens. This is especially important. For years and years, as a child, because I was the son of a veterinarian, I kind of lived with animals, spent my broader youth, and I realized that. I can say that I am grateful to the fate that she has also assigned me this function here today, so that I can somehow decide to protect these common friends with whom we share this wonderful planet, planet Earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Since I see that there is still a desire for debate, I am reopening my application for debate. The application shall be made. We have four panellists. The first word is Mrs Tina Comel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. It is unacceptable that any violence of animals intended to be displayed in front of an audience in a modern democratic society is unacceptable. Because animals suffer only to entertain people by showing them. More and more countries where the use of animals in circuses is legally prohibited. It is time to put animal welfare and animal-human relations at a very high level. We're a civilized society, and it's about time we proved it. I'll support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam President. We will support the amendments as well as the law, both personally and by the parliamentary group. Here, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to say that we are pleased, in this law we have proved that sometimes the coalition in this House counts 90 Members and Members, and that is good. What we need to be aware of is that we have also allowed non-governmental organisations to cooperate in a very concrete way, their proposals through such or other amendments, in most cases, we have also managed to bring in the legislative material without the parties being overly competitive with each other, which will gain a political point – and that is also a good thing. But what I would like, honourable Members and Members, he said is that we are aware that caring for the protection of animals is a process. With this law we or we will get, I believe unanimously, one of the most modern laws in Europe, but for animal welfare also at the legislative level we will have to continue to fight. At this point, remember, but some kind of cancer is the wound of our animal protection and it is increasingly evident in some way that the introduction of shelters to euthanasia of animals on the 30th day. We have already talked about this, there has been a lot of debate, which has also been about financial resources, but we must be aware that we are in the European Union with this kind of legislation. In recent weeks, I have had the opportunity to talk to a lot of people in the European Union, because it is necessary to say that the country is helping less, but that humanitarian societies are much more helpful, charity helps, but the way in which those who work with shelters and shelters see, above all, a profitable activity, makes them euthanize on day 30 with State resources or with municipal means of animals, and this is nowhere to be found. Thus, honourable Members and Members, on this solemn day, when we are likely to support unanimously or in the coming days, when the vote will take place, of course, this is not to spoil this great moment, but I would like all of us to be aware of and to start looking for solutions to what to do with our shelters, that the situation in those who are public and also in those who are acting on a private basis, that is, on a profitable basis, will be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting on my part, too! On behalf of the National Gazette, I would also like to announce my support for the law and all the amendments tabled. At the same time, I would like to express my satisfaction at the participation of all parliamentary groups in the context of the coordination of this law and also with non-governmental organisations. The 31st article, referred to by the Court of Auditors in some way – I am glad that it will be withdrawn, especially for the reason that it does not seem fair to me that the contribution would be paid to households that do not have any small animals, or to those who care for them properly. However, I am also looking forward to further cooperation or our coordination if we are to conclude that future additions or amendments to this law will be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tamara Vont has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you very much. They say that there is never too much good; as good women do not, nor good marriages. I should add that, in fact, it was a real pleasure to be involved in the design process, and in the end, we have also formed something else, even though the proposal itself was already more than good. This is really a case where we were all partners involved in the hearing, and let me say that I imagine that this is how I would participate in the drafting of all the laws, not just those relating to animals. I must say, this has been a great pleasure. It is also true that they cooperated with society or civil society, which has very much knowledge, which is very well-aware and their proposals and ideas were largely good and extremely well-founded. I think we want more of this kind of cooperation, so I imagine working in Parliament after all. Of course we'll support the marriage. We will also support the amendment, because in Positive Slovenia we are the ones we also wanted to add to the circus dictatorship another "and a circus of similar events" due to the possibility of abuse, that some circus would, say, be renamed, but I'd say it's an animal show or something like that, but in fact it would be the same thing, but there would be some problems here after the discussion itself. In short, there are no reasons, really no reason not to accept this amendment or not to accept it. We know how inappropriate it is for animals to live in circuses, we know what we tell young people, what we tell children. We know that even after all, the public is not inclined to do so, and we know that we have a whole bunch of world-successful circuses, in which exclusively people are performing, so of course I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss this article or amendment? If not, we conclude the debate on this work. We are moving on to Article 18 and to the amendment of the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI and the SD Group's amendments. Does anyone want to discuss this article or amendment? Since there's more than one wish for a debate, I'm opening up an opportunity to apply. Mr. Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I was sure he'd be a magician. A Jew in front of me, but here we have actually tabled an identical amendment. This amendment was tabled in the light of the debate at the meeting of the working body and also in the light of the concerns expressed by the chairman of the committee. We have obtained, we have been sent the opinion of the Court of Auditors, which in its opinion deals with certain matters, otherwise it does not prohibit them, but recommends that the municipal tax provided for in the law is, of course, intended to care for abandoned animals, so that this is not introduced into the law as originally envisaged. I fully understand the proposal for a law, that is, the Ministry, why it introduced this possibility into the law that I now anticipate we will delete it. When I read that it is possible that a cat has as many as 20,000 offspring on his sixth birthday, this is actually a really big problem. These stray cats and dogs need to be taken care of. According to law, congregations are responsible for this, and congregations must provide funds for every abandoned animal that anyone brings to the shelter. These supplies are also costing four hundred and fifty euros for one animal for one month. Finally, the figures that are correct are that the Municipality of Nova Gorica for the care of abandoned animals of cats and dogs has committed 42 000 euros, Škofja Loka 36 000 euros, Maribor 35 000, Novo mesto 31 000, Piran 28, Domžale 23, Celje 21, Krško 20 000 euros. These are really quite high numbers that need to be provided, or these funds, in municipal budgets. I know that the Slovenian Community has turned to the Ministry and wanted to find some solution that would bring, say, 10 to 12 euros at the annual level at the post, whatever it is, let's just say that this would come into the budget for municipal affairs. Of course, I too wonder whether this is fair, whether it is fair to those who do not have animals, and here these concerns are in place. I think that, as we are looking at it, the municipalities will have to continue to provide funds in their own budgets, but a solution will have to be found for these abandoned cats and dogs. I think castration, sterilization will sort of stop this thing. We also talked with representatives of animal protection societies, so that it might be good to take some action all over Slovenia, solve things, perform castration and sterilization, and then this problem would be significantly smaller in the future. On the basis of the Court of Auditors' recommendations, we will support this amendment in our parliamentary group, which will mean that there will be no duty. However, municipalities will still have to provide funds for these abandoned animals. I think that in the future the matter will have to be resolved in a different way in this area, because I think this is not exactly optimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Croat. Mrs. Vonta, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I agree with Mr Hrvatov that a solution will have to be found which, to say the same, will also be welcomed by the Court of Auditors. After all, now that we simplify these things very much, it is also the money coming from our pocket from the municipal budget. So it's not some kind of money that travels outside our pockets, as we would, say, pay for it in this proposal. Of course, if the Court of Auditors considers that this is wrong, then it seems to me that at least that is why we are obliged to respect this. I would point out once again that the problem is really big and that something will have to be done here in the future and that we will no longer be able to say that it is wrong to pay for something, but you do not have an animal to pay for it: it is cohabitation, it is our shared responsibility. We are in 2013 and, unfortunately, we are living together somehow and will no longer be able to resolve such matters as they are now. My call would really be to prepare one solution to this problem, which is really hot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Alenka Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u162	I would say this: it doesn't matter whose amendment was adopted, it's important that things are resolved. However, I must say that the difference between animals abandoned and animals in urban areas or in rural areas is essential. Three years ago, I moved from the urban village to the countryside, and I can practically see these problems in the countryside, so I can understand those who live in the city, who watch the abandoned, starving cats every day, looking for food through the containers, and the dogs that are transported by the sidewalks. There's no food in the countryside for any more, up or down. Even this sterilization and castration is done, but if it doesn't happen, it's not such a disaster. I'd say as far as utility charges are concerned. In this case, it is not for those who have animals they care about to pay the tax, but for abandoned animals. The problem, as I see it, is that someone doesn't want to pay for it because it seems too much. You know what? If 1.5 or 2 euros per household is a problem, then we have a big problem because in our country every household should find two euros. I believe that's a problem for someone, but it's a problem for a government that doesn't make sure people have money, a job that unemployed people don't get unemployed, but that these two euros can also pay. Here is the economic problem of the unemployed, not the problem of abandoned animals. That is why I believe that this matter in the future should also be regulated by the Ministry so that we do not spend any more money on animals than on the unemployed and on the people at the edge of social pressures, as we devote two hundred and sixty euros to them and we spend four hundred euros a month and more on animals. Secondly, I refer to the Committee on Agriculture, where we are, I will say, to discuss the report on shelters. I agree with the chairman of the committee when he said that there are virtually no conditions in the shelters and that some of the shelters are exploiting abandoned animals and using this money for their own, I will say, interests. There is also a problem with the municipal arrangements of these abandoned animals, since the animal does not know whether it has crossed the border of a congregation and has gone from one congregation to a neighbor and has continued to reproduce there, so I believe that this matter should be regulated at national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mag. The Jew will discuss it. Will anyone else discuss it? Here you go, mag. A Jew, then a magician. Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Here, too, I would like to say that the policy has done its job, because on the committee we have discussed not whether the fee is necessary; the fee is necessary! As real costs arise especially with cats, which are uncontrollable, we discussed that it should be prescribed in a way that is indisputable from the Court of Auditors’ point of view. So, let's say this joint amendment that we withdraw until we find a way, I think it's very correct. On this particular occasion, however, I would also like to point out why it is so important that when we deal with animal welfare, we talk about public interest. Allow one example of Germany, in Berlin they have a common animal shelter; Berlin is large, has 3.5 million inhabitants, each day in this shelter replaced by the owner of fifty animals, that is 15 thousand. The annual costs of this shelter are almost eight million euros or 20 000 euros a day. Of all these strong needed euros, it is only 430,000 euros from the country or from the local state, Berlin. All the rest of the shelter is obtained in its own way and to a large extent through voluntary contributions, which are only possible because everyone believes that the shelter managed by the Berlin Animal Protection Society, which works in the public interest, works solely and exclusively in the public interest. This is also the reason why we may need to take another look in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mag. Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I'm going to relate to a colleague in front of me who practically talked about what I wanted. For me, it is a dilemma whether a shelter that must act in the public interest can operate with a gainful function. Without proper control, I'm sorry. Because I also had this opportunity when I was working within the congregation, I witnessed many irregularities, and a great deal of money came to a shelter right at the expense of these abandoned chicks who were no one’s property. What had happened, what had happened, no one had been informed of it. After 30 days, only a high bill came in to pay the costs. Otherwise, if you don't mind, I didn't even want to start with that, so I wanted to start with responsibility. It is the responsibility of all of us, and I am glad that we may have taken a step forward in this regard. "My animal, my responsibility" is a flyer that was handed to me a while ago by the director of the veterinary department. Also in connection with this amendment or with an open article, I would say: our responsibility because it is our animals. It is right that we are all aware of this when we vote on this; not only on this law, even when the law is being enforced in practice. And in this connection, I'm going to point it out again today. I also had not only one but several unpleasant experiences here, including the companies that turn to the relevant inspectors, the responsible inspectors, unfortunately many times remain dissatisfied with the reaction of these inspection services. In fact, I read on purpose the items I received, including the responsible ownership of dogs. When it was reported to a competent inspection service in Celje, because Celje covers the succulent unit or the succulent region, there is a suspicion that the animal is being abused or that the animal is not being treated properly, as it should be treated in accordance with the law. At that time, the Inspector’s response — and I have informed the distinguished Director — was clear on the situation people are living in today. I'm aware! But it is not right that this person who is responsible reacts in this way. And you should, according to your powers. And when I point out what, in my opinion, is also consistent with what's written in the law and in these notebooks, books, what's not good or what's wrong with it, he says that when you put a child into kindergarten, at least at the beginning of the crying, until you get used to some new situation. These are not answers that would reflect responsible treatment of anyone in our society. I hope and want to, so I have begun to see this law bring about changes not only at some declaration level, but also at our own consciousness in doing so. If you allow me, I will conclude, in this part, perhaps only that when the dilemmas were raised, that perhaps the introduction of a general utility fee or whatever that tax would be called, would not be just, since all the inhabitants of a congregation or household do not have animals at home. This thinking is not good thinking, nor is it just thinking because we are talking about abandoned animals, talking about animals that are our shared responsibility, not just the responsibility of those who have pets at home. Basically, I do not see the problem, but it is true that there is always a question on the other hand whether people on the verge of survival would be obliged to pay this tax. Absolutely! But that's another question, and it's true: yes, we've completely missed out on this path as a politician or as a society. Otherwise, to conclude one thought, which I will also read from this box, because believe it, it is very useful if everyone, as well as those who are first responsible, were aware of it. "So have your dog likes, because of what it is a dog" – or we can also transfer it to a cat or any other domestic animal, or not just a domestic animal – "with all its characteristics, sensitivity, playfulness, impertinence, loyalty and nagligability. Meet him and you'll find that you're dealing with a creature that responds to emotional and physical pain in a very similar way to you. It is therefore your job to provide him with an environment in which such pain will be as little as possible." This, dear colleagues, is today and at this moment our responsibility and duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u168	Have a nice hello again. I thank you for these discussions, which talk about being this law, say, responsible ownership. I am also pleased that the honourable Member of the brochure, which was issued by the predecessor of the current administration, has also read, and in this too, I think, is the solution to these problems. Generally speaking, this responsible conduct is more than necessary in society and, on the other hand, the role of the non-governmental sector, including volunteering, has been mentioned in previous discussions. Let me also give one experience that I had the opportunity to try out in the United States of America in 2007 as the most capitalist country, is the author of many philosophies, but it was very clear to them after a three-week intensive visit to the United States without a high-quality volunteer system. Here, too, these words were very clear as to how much civil society can do in this area by demarcating these costs and in some way also how much civil society can do in this area. He certainly makes a big contribution, and I hope that this law, as well as our conduct, will help us not to seek the solutions we have tried to find in this article in the future. We ourselves were aware in our search for this solution that the great problems of how to distribute these burdens in a legal and even fair manner through these municipal fees would be a problem, so after consultation with the Court of Auditors and together with the Committee, we unitedly supported this solution in order to withdraw this provision from the law. That is why this amendment as a government, we support and hope that it will be in the future, as I have already said, first as few of these costs as possible, and, on the other hand, that we will be able to find a solution. However, I take this opportunity to thank you for this good cooperation, and I think that my colleagues, particularly those who have participated in this law, have proved for the second time that they can also accept difficult laws in the way they should. The first was the establishment of a new Food Safety Authority, where we were not completely united, but here I hope that we will finally be united and that we will adopt another good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. We have some work to do before that. Article 25 and the amendment to Article 25 first, namely the SDS, DL, SLS, DeSUS and NSI. Does anyone want to discuss this article or amendment? Mrs. Attack and then Mr. Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. I will also be happy to support this amendment, because I am pleased to find with this amendment that we will find certain legal standards that relate to violations in the protection of the rights of animals, of wild species, in circuses and other similar events, and somehow the owner of animals imposes an obligation to take care of it without limiting their basic requirements of stay. We're looking here from a financial point of view. It also contains provisions on the various aspects of dealing with them, such as infringements that pose a serious threat to the welfare of animals and are classified in the highest category of offences, the fine in the worst forms may amount to up to EUR 84 000 and a minimum of EUR 800. I'd like to draw attention here to another problem that I found when I lived along the Italian border. In fact, the Italians have a slightly stricter legislation on euthanasia. We have faced the problem that our neighbors, who because of different circumstances can no longer care for their pet and choose to sleep, even though the animal is healthy, are forbidden to do so. We still have this thing a little messy with us, so they could, for example, bring their pet across the border to Slovenia, euthanize it, and then, let's just say, they weren't prosecuted, give an ad that there was a missing dog or a cat. Perhaps this problem of drowsiness or euthanasia should be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Of course, I will also support the amendment to Article 25 and the law that we are considering today, but it is also right to say that since yesterday in the National Assembly there has been an interesting photographic exhibition entitled The Assembly, prepared by the PET Institute, this is a dog therapy agency, and the Lika Society, which tells about the coexistence of human and animal animals in the implementation of the mission of therapeutic animals in various situations, as well as an exhibition on the work of working dogs and horses, so that the National Assembly is also a sign of this topic, which we are discussing today, and it will be available all week long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much for the invitation, Mr. Bevk. Mrs. Tamara Vont.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u174	With regard to this article, I would just like to make a call. I am very glad that you have followed great desires, ours, not only ours, but especially the public. I must say that so many regulations have been gathered and that we are essentially deciding that animals should no longer be bred in Slovenia for fur purposes. For this we already have various other substitutes and there is really no need for this here to be also a civilisation norm and I am glad that we have been heard, as far as this is concerned. [[...]] I was a little surprised to learn that, in fact, there was no reason for it, there was no economic damage. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, then my colleague will say more about the damage, because he's obviously informed from some other source. In short, there is no economic damage as regards the data of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia; we have two farms and these are also lovers. In addition, I think again that it is time to take into account what people are telling us, especially if it is organised, reasoned; not as an euphoria or as an emotional failure, but in fact all the arguments here, we also look at the neighborhood, the neighbouring countries, we have similar arguments. So I really don't see any reason for hesitation, even the reference to the European Directive at some point in time in this case is not true, because the state itself can regulate within this even more stringent legislation and we have decided to do so. After all, in 2008 Slovenia decided, as far as I know, and the Regulation on the Treatment and Protection of Trade in Animal and Plant Species prohibited commercial imports of seals. So the point is that, I think, we've already decided which way we're going, and that's what we're just following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-01-29-SDZ6-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire for a discussion possible? It's not a wish, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided on Wednesday in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this item of the agenda and at the same time today's part of the 10th meeting of the Assembly. We'll resume tomorrow at nine o'clock.
