ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Member of Parliament, Magi. Barbara Žgajner Tavš by 3 p.m., Mrs Janja Klasinc, mag. Melita Zupevc and Jože Velika until 3 p.m. Once again, I welcome everyone here. Moving on to 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. AND 14. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on wills in the National Assembly, a proposal for a law on business, a proposal for a law on the State Council, a bill on the will of the President of the Republic, a proposal for a law on local love and a bill on local self-government. All these laws are subject to amendments and additions. The draft laws were tabled by a group of six Members and Members, first signed by Richard Branisl. With regard to these bills, a group of ten Members and Members, with the first signed by Richard Branisle, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. The College of the President of the National Assembly agreed on the discussion of these proposals for laws that the introductory explanations of the positions of the delegations and the debates of Members and Members on all proposals for legislation should be carried out jointly. In order to further explain the draft laws, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Richard Branisl. Mr. Braniselle, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u2	Dear President, colleague and colleague, distinguished secretary! I will try to say all the essential things that are necessary in order to be able to decide whether all these proposed laws are suitable for further consideration or not. I would like to support these laws, but I will talk in one piece about the five laws relating to officials, and then especially about the Law on Local Self-Government relating to the Mayor's recall. The purpose of the amendments to these laws is to tighten the conditions for candidates for elections to the National Assembly and, together with the proposed amendments, to even these conditions for the assumption of the functions of the President of the Republic, Members, Councillors, Prime Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State and Mayors and Councillors. For all the officials listed, proposals for amendments to the individual laws for this shall lay down the same entry conditions: full age, business capacity and four new conditions, which are: the absence of a legal conviction for a non-conditional sentence of more than three months, the absence of a legal conviction for a probationary sentence of more than three months for a criminal offence punishable by an official duty, the absence of a legal conviction for which of the offences against an official duty, public powers and public remedies provided for in Chapter 26 of the Penal Code and the absence of a legal indictment for an alleged criminal offence prosecuted under official duty. In addition to this, amendments to the laws on elections of the President of the Republic, on elections to the National Assembly, on Members, on the State Council, on local elections and on government are proposed. Although this moment has not yet been tabled on the government, because the law that we discussed yesterday has actually been introduced and this government law will come later. In all, it is proposed to tighten the conditions for entry and stay in politics. In the current regime, there are virtually no conditions for entry into politics – except for age. People who are convicted or in criminal proceedings may enter and run into politics or are appointed to various public functions. However, the reason for the termination of the term of office is, and not in all the laws mentioned above, only a legal sentence of at least six months of unconditional imprisonment. This is what we have now in the Law on Members. The proposed amendments would introduce additional conditions for the submission of the application, while introducing the same reasons for the termination of the function. In addition to full age and professional competence, a candidate or official should therefore not be legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than three months, or for officially persecutable criminal offences, even on probationary terms of imprisonment for more than three months. Nor should he be convicted, irrespective of the amount of the criminal offence, of official duty, of public authority and of public resources. Offences against official duty, public authority and public resources, including offences such as the giving and taking of bribes, abuse of a position, falsification of official documents and damage to public funds, are of the utmost importance for public service officials that a legal conviction, irrespective of the amount of the penalty imposed, places an inadmissible mark on the integrity of such an individual, which must be immediately excluded from the application for office. Officials whose mandate would have been terminated on the basis of those criteria would not have been entitled to compensation for early termination of office, but those who would have proved in criminal proceedings that the indictment was unfounded would have had the right to compensation. The prohibition of a criminal charge shall cease to apply after the expiry of three years of its jurisdiction, either in criminal proceedings nothing happens or the release of a sentence or the criminal procedure continues. 43. Article 43 of the Constitution establishes a general electoral right, which is one of the fundamental human political rights, is the right of an individual to vote, an active electoral right, and the right of a person to be elected is a passive electoral right. From a constitutional point of view, intervention in active and passive electoral law shall be permitted only if the Constitution so provides with a general mandate to the legislator, such as in the case of a restriction on a Member in Article 82 of the Constitution, or where an action is necessary to protect the human rights of others or to protect the public interest, provided that it protects the rights of others, Article 15, paragraph 3 of the Constitution. The proposer is aware of the Constitutional Court’s decision, UI 346/02 of 10.7.2003, where the Constitutional Court, irrespective of the fact that it has ruled on a case where a constitutional judgement has been requested because there has been a problematic restriction due to the loss of business capacity, also speaks in this part of the constitutional admissibility of the restriction of active electoral and passive electoral rights in general. The opinion of the proposer is that the proposed laws are not contrary to the Constitution. In accordance with the principle of electoral law, if the electoral right of an individual depends on the fulfilment of conditions such as age, citizenship, mental capacity or judgment, impunity and permanent residence. This is in point 5 of the reasoning of the Constitutional Court precisely the decision that I quoted earlier. The Constitution stipulates that human rights are limited to the rights of others – in Article 15, we are talking about restricting the passive electoral right of individuals to the account of the right of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that Slovenia is their country and that in Slovenia the authority of the people and people in the Republic of Slovenia has an inalienable right to govern the country in a fair manner. This is what citizens and citizens tell us, by the way, also at conventions that we will hear again with the same requirements on 8 March, in a few days. Let's listen to them and hear them. Freedom to work is also a constitutional right as defined in Article 49 of the Constitution. The Constitution does not state that it can be restricted at any time, but in various laws or even lower legal acts, we have an innumerable limit on this freedom. We also have restrictions on many professions for very similar and even milder reasons, such as the reasons that we want to impose as a restriction on beloved officials, such as lawyers, lawyers, notaries, police officers, judges, prosecutors, public servants, under the Law on Economic Companies, founders of the company, associates, contractors of private protection, officers, Slovenian Army officers, military personnel, other employees in the Slovenian Army, bankruptcy administrators. It follows from the comparative study carried out by the National Assembly that the whole range of professions subject to the absence of a judicial decision in criminal proceedings. And it's not about those people who are loved for some function, it's about people who are doing their jobs, it's about people who are existentially dependent on their jobs, and the constitution allows and allows our legal order, that these conditions are limited. The Labour Relations Act allows for the possibility of termination, loss of service for someone convicted in a 6-month prison trial. People lose their jobs because of their criminal convictions, thereby losing their jobs, thereby losing their existence, and it is completely pointless, unfair and irrational that they could not introduce such things to beloved officials who perform certain functions unprofessionally. These are congregation councillors, parishioners, state councillors, and so on, who do not even lose their job by losing their position. And that's something that's actually unfair in this society. Law on public servants, non-conditional punishment for more than 6 months in prison, termination of service — not mandate, service. The Company Act is a whole series of cases where there are limits. Financial Operations Act, Insolvency Procedures, Forced Discontinuation Procedures, Legal Judgment – Withdrawal of an authorisation to act as manager, not to mention further. Private Protection Act – termination of license, termination of service, non-conditional sentence of three months in prison for a security guard. The law on police, the condition for the conclusion of a working relationship, is impunity. And, of course, termination of employment for three months in prison. The Defense Act, the withdrawal, the termination of service, three months in prison. Law on service in the Slovenian Army, dishonorable discharge from the Slovenian Army for crimes, which are also called crime, if we can be more direct. Law on legal representation, withdrawal of license, removal from the register of lawyers, forfeiture of the right to pursue a legal profession. The Notary Act, the discharge of the Notary, is not worth doing a notary profession. State Attorney's Office Act, 6 months in prison, no job. The Law of Judicial Service, the same thing. The Constitutional Court Act, on the basis of any conviction in a criminal offence, terminates the function. Local Self-Government Act, Mayor, Petty Officer, sentence longer than 6 months. Law on Members, 6 months in prison, unconditionally – termination of the mandate. And these are examples that show that it is necessary to introduce such conditions or stricter conditions for all officials, beloved officials in that country. If I come back. The temporary limitation of passive electoral rights is imposed on criminal proceedings. In criminal proceedings, a person is found always and exclusively because he has violated the rights of another person or others. It violated the rules in that country and violations of the Penal Code constitute a service of crime. Criminal acts are the most repulsive in this country. They are not offences, they are not economic offences as we used to know them, they are not disciplinary sanctions. It's a crime, a crime, we can call it. And these violations were committed on purpose because someone wanted them and allowed the consequences to arise. I ask whether such a person is worthy of the trust of citizens and citizens or if you want voters or voters. We restrict passive electoral rights for the purpose of executing or suspecting the commission of a criminal offence. And these are the worst legal violations of all criminal acts. Crimes are encroachments on fundamental social values. There are acts or actions that are perverted or discarded. Does a person who commits a crime really deserve the trust of the electorate? Does a person deserve to be trusted at a time when he is suspected of committing a crime? We come from analyses of how likely it is for someone to be convicted of a crime or to be charged with legal charges before a court of law. In the last five years, about 170,000 criminal charges have been filed against the prosecution. Of this, only 13% were mature for the prosecution to propose an investigation. All the other things were handled in a different way. From those where the investigation was lodged, only 66 came the case. Re-significant reduction. This means that, in fact, of all crimes, we come to the point that there are only 14.5% of those cases that would fall under the end of the function in these amendment laws that we are proposing. Only 14%. This is said to be a major censorship, or a whole series of instruments, before we get to a legal indictment or a conviction for a crime. And there's a whole series of security mechanisms here that prevents innocents from being abused either by criminal proceedings or there is no way that an innocent person can be convicted. The restriction of passive electoral rights due to the service of a criminal offence or the reasonable suspicion of a criminal service is permissible and even necessary because it is necessary to protect the rights of others, all citizens and citizens who grant the elected a mandate to manage that country or the municipality and to protect the public interest. However, public interest is confidence in the government, in public administration, in Parliament, in the President of the country, in all elected officials, is trust in the judiciary, is trust in all the institutions of the rule of law. And that's the public interest. It is in the public interest to restore confidence in the rule of law, as this trust on the part of citizens and citizens today is not large enough and to this extent, as this country and these institutions deserve. That's what they tell us at the conventions, that's what public research and polls say, and it's called a proportionality test. It's a restriction, not a seizure of electoral rights. This is a temporary restriction and its duration depends on the gravity of the offence committed by the person. The restriction applies for as long as the reason for it lasts. For the perpetrator of the offence, the sentence shall be deleted. However, in the case of conditional penalties, the sentence shall be abolished for one year from the expiry of the probationary sentence or up to some three years if there is no exceptional amnesty, pardon, act of the State authority. So these days, too, in this case, aren't so long. The termination or loss of individual rights may only be linked to a legal conviction or a legal indictment. Of course, consciously, we have not gone in this direction to raise these standards to the point of including the indictment proposal, although there are a number of challenges in civil society as well. It seemed to us that the indictment, a direct indictment without judicial review, could not be the reason for anything to happen in this case. However, in the case of the defendant, we do have an opinion of the court, which states whether the charge is substantiated or not, in the ordinary motion, of course it is not so, and this is an act which the Prosecutor himself sends to the court without anyone, any other institution, having verified whether this act is actually justified or not. That's why we're not dealing with an indictment here. Otherwise, there is currently some weakness in these marriage solutions that are ahead of you, and then we will be able to do so with ease. For we have not calculated in this legal solution of judicial protection against the decisions of the administrative authorities which decide on the temporary limitation of passive electoral rights. This will certainly be an administrative dispute, but in this regard it seems reasonable for us to write it clearly. Of course, as far as liability is concerned, compensation for the conduct of those civil servants who decide in criminal proceedings, and for the State's liability for compensation, if it has unduly prevented a person from running or performing his duties, these are, of course, compensation under the general rules of compensation. And finally, who will we defend if we do not support the proposed changes? An honest citizen, a politician, an official has nothing to fear from this that his right to vote will be limited in any way. It can only be restricted to a criminal, and only if, as such, he wants to run for the trust of a worthy function. And we do not agree to the pre-qualification of the courts, the police, the prosecutors, the lawyers, we do not agree on the conspiracy theory, we agree that the rule of law is respected, and only if we run into specific cases, then we are relentlessly persecuting them. But priors to expressing fear that the courts, the prosecutions, whoever works impartially in this chain, will act impartially, I don't think it's fair to these institutions. In fact, the light years of all those institutions involved, and especially the sentences imposed, are far from legal conviction or indictment. As I've already said, there's a whole series of mechanisms that must prevent innocent people from being convicted in this country. I think we have this law on criminal procedure, and we're not afraid here. I'd like to introduce you to a quick law on local self-government. Article 48a is amended as follows: Callback, "recall referendum or representativeity call", is a comparative legal procedure whereby voters remove an elected official by popular vote before the end of their term of office. That's kind of a definition. Citizens can call off mayors by a referendum that can be held first after one term of office after the last local elections for the mayor. Not in a year. The referendum on the recall of the Mayor is called for at least 30% of the population in the municipality, 25% in the municipality, up to 20 000, 20% in the municipality, up to 50 000, 15% in the municipality and, of course, 10% in the municipality, over 100 000 people - not voters, people. The voter's initiative to apply for a referendum on the Mayor's withdrawal may be submitted to the municipal council by any voter, but must be supported by certified signatures, at least 2% of the voters in the municipality who voted in the first round in the last regular elections for the mayor, but not less than 15 voters and not more than 2 000 500 voters. The list shall include, at the time of each personal signature, the name, surname, date of birth and the address of the signatory's permanent residence. The procedure shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Act on the subsequent referendum in the municipal general act, at the request of the electorate, by the Commission of the Municipal Council for a mandate issue, election and appointment, KMVI. KMVI shall establish by decision a form to support the request for a referendum on the recall of the mayor and the date on which the 35-day period for the collection of signatures begins, supporting the request to the State authority responsible for the maintenance of the register of voting rights. If, within eight days of receiving the initiative, the Commission does not invite the initiator to supplement the initiative or does not adopt the decision referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Article, it shall carry out the procedure with the initiative of the Head of Locally Responsible Administrative Unit. The application shall be submitted on the day following the expiry of the last day of the deadline referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article if it has been supported by a sufficient number of voters by signatures. The referendum on the recall of the mayor shall be signed by the municipal electoral commission in accordance with the provisions of this law governing the call for a referendum and the vote at the referendum on the municipal general act within 15 days of the submission of the request and shall take place no later than 40 days from the date of the invitation to tender. The decision of the electorate to revoke the mayor shall be valid if it has been voted on by the majority of the voters who voted. This is the same quorum, the same majority that was needed for the mayor to be elected. If the mayor is called off, he shall terminate his term of office early on the date of receipt of the report of the municipal electoral commission and cannot run for mayor in alternate elections. On the date of the early termination of the mayor's term of office, the Municipal Council shall appoint a member of the municipal council, who shall temporarily act as mayor until the date of the appointment of the newly elected mayor. If the municipal council does not carry out the appointment, it shall temporarily act as mayor of the oldest member of the municipal council. I'd be done with it. In the debate, I look forward to a question. Things can be explained. Things or these proposals may be improved further, we are prepared to table amendments, if necessary, but I would ask that this set be supported, given an opportunity, and then set things straight on the committee where it is needed. I would've done that for once, and then I would've had more in the debate. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for the introduction. At the same time, I give the floor to Ms Mojci Kucler Dolinar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration, to the Government of Ms Mojci Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u4	Dear President, first-signed under the proposals of laws, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! The proponents, as explained in the introduction, propose to tighten the conditions for the performance of the function of Members and to align these conditions, together with the proposed amendments, for the performance of the functions of the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Ministers, State Secretaries, State Councillors, Mayors and Municipal Councilors. For all the officials listed, the proposals for amendments to individual laws therefore lay down new entry conditions, which were very precisely listed and described at the opening presentation, and would therefore not repeat them in this introduction alone. Even if we understand the objectives that proposers want to pursue with amendments and legislative additions, the Government considers that there are legal arguments that prevent the Government from supporting the proposed changes. The proposal for a law with concrete solutions interferes with electoral law and also repeals the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence, thereby violating the principle of proportionality. According to the Government, the proposed regulation is unconstitutional. The laws also infringe on acquired rights, on the principle of trust in law, since in the transitional and final provisions or in individual articles Members and other officials mentioned above who do not comply with those conditions, the mandate shall expire on the date of entry into force of the law. Let me make this a little bit more specific. In the opinion of the Government, the applicant reached out to the 27th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and thereby evaluated the constitutionally defined presumption of innocence. The prohibition of the candidature and the termination of a position on the grounds of a criminal charge is also contrary to criminal law, since, in accordance with the Penal Code, the termination and loss of individual rights can only be linked to a legal conviction. We further point to the inappropriate arrangements for persons in criminal proceedings, but they have not yet been proven guilty by a judicial judgment. On the basis of the proposal, it is not only for innocent persons to terminate their mandate but also for them to be deprived of the right to social security if, for objective reasons, they cannot continue their previous work or obtain other appropriate employment or are not yet eligible for retirement under the general rules. In addition, in the Law on Members, I would like to draw attention to the two internal inconsistentities that would arise when the bill was adopted. The proposal concerns a Member who has ceased his term of office because he is legally accused and does not speak of a Member whose term of office has ceased due to a judicial judgment, which should be taken into account in view of the fact that the second paragraph of Article 38c does not cover all cases of termination of the mandate as they would have been regulated by a proposed or new arrangement. The provision shall be without prejudice to the existing provision of Article 38.c, which provides that, in the event that the expiry of the sentence is pronounced before the expiry of the period fixed for the refund, the Member shall have the right to compensation for the remainder of the period. About the Local Elections Act. In particular, we note the likely error of the proposaler's nominal error, which took the text of Article 5 of the Local Elections Act as the basis for amendments and additions, but failed to take into account that the provision was amended by the amendment of the Local Elections Act in 2012. The proposal for amendments and additions, which form an essential part of the legal novel of the Law on Local Elections, therefore refers to a text which no longer applies. The novelty in 2012 was prepared and adopted mainly because of the European Commission’s finding that in the Republic of Slovenia the provisions of certain articles of the Directive adopted in 1994 and the directives adopted in May 1996 and the Directive adopted in 2006 were not properly transposed into the Slovenian legal order. With regard to the additional condition of business ability, I would also like to point out that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already issued a decision on such arrangements in 2003, on the basis of which such a legal provision has been repealed and therefore is not acceptable at the discretion of the Government to re-establish an unconstitutional regime in the laws in question. For these reasons, and for all the reasons stated by the Government in the written position and known to you by the Members of Parliament, we cannot support the proposed amendments to the laws and we are opposed to the proposals of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The aim and desire of the six laws of the Civil Code are to raise the standard of political culture and to strengthen the integrity of political function holders. The proposed additions and amendments to the laws can be seen as a response to the apparent deterioration of confidence in politics and legal certainty, particularly in the last year. and at both national and local levels. Proposals for laws refer to the establishment of entry conditions for political function holders when entering politics and staying in political office and the possibility of electorates and voters at local level to call on the mayor. And who won't be able to run for public office? The person against whom a criminal offence is brought, irrespective of the amount of the sentence handed down by the court, shall be sentenced to more than three months'unconditional or conditional imprisonment. At local level, the main discussions in recent months were on the possibility of recalling the mayor. The amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government provides for a procedure for calling off the mayor with a referendum, but also provides for a call to be launched by an electorate who should submit this initiative to the municipal council, together with signatures by 2% of the electoral beneficiaries in the municipality who participated in the last municipal elections in the first round, but should not be less than 15 and not more than 2 000 500. Nor could an individual do this earlier than in the year following the mayoral elections. The legislative texts of these proposals need to be considered in detail, in our opinion, and urgently consulted with the legal profession, so that, after the adoption of the marriage package, too quickly liked and perhaps even unconceived solutions, public finances and thus taxpayers will not be burdened again. There are also two proposed amendments to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and to the Law on the State Council, which are adopted by a two-thirds majority of all Members. The question is what to do if these two novels do not get the required number of votes. In view of the broad government opinion on the proposed marriage package, we can conclude that there will be no necessary support, and in the end we will only deal with those matters that concern the local level and not the national level. The comments of the mayor of the municipality of Trzin or the questions raised with regard to the amendment of the Law on Local Elections are also interesting. And if I've already touched the local community. I would warn you that a code of conduct for elected representatives is being prepared at local level. It would also be good to review this text. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that every conduct of politicians is under public scrutiny and that we are required to act morally and ethically and to respect the principles of integrity. We agree with the proposaler that public servants should not be subject to stricter entry conditions for employment than candidates for political functions. The applicant also points out in the explanations of the laws that the provisions of the Law on Public Servants, which require the individual to show at least three things when applying for an application for employment: that he is not legally convicted of an offence punishable by official duty; secondly, that he has not been sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months; and thirdly, that he has not been charged with a criminal offence punishable by an official obligation. Under the Civil Servants Act, a staff member ceases to be employed if he is sentenced by a judicial decision to commit an offence which is prosecuted under an official obligation by an unconditional penalty of more than six months. What about the officers? Anyone who has reached the age of 18 may run for office if the law does not provide for any other conditions. And no one has to prove anything. There is nothing wrong with this, but it can be done by a political party preparing candidate lists or proposing candidates for appointment to important political functions, as well as other high positions. Social Democrats believe that we can greatly help political parties themselves to prevent individuals and individuals from coming to our lists in violation of the principles of integrity and contrary to ethical norms and applicable law from coming to our lists. If the client's site is dense enough, we'll prevent the candiding of ethically and morally contentious persons. Social Democrats have a provision following a new provision in the Party's Statute whereby a member or a member of a party who is registered or proposed for an elected or appointed function in the European Union, a national authority or a local community body must make all necessary information and information available on the basis of which it is possible to assess whether the candidate has violated the principles of ethical conduct or integrity in the past. If he is not prepared to do so, he shall determine the potential political responsibility of such an official of the competent authority of the party. We believe that by adopting this package, the political culture will not rise. We will raise political culture by acting ethically and morally ourselves and by respecting the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, too. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Ms Kristina Valenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u8	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia we have over 3,000 700 public officials. I mean everything from the President of the Republic, the Government, ministers, state secretaries, Members, state councillors, mayors, municipal councillors. And most of them work responsibly. Citizens trust their credibility, expertise, integrity and ethics. Unfortunately, in recent years, more and more cases of politicians or public officials have been exposed, which have taken place in various stages of criminal proceedings and, despite public pressure, continue to persist in their functions. Such conduct undermines the fundamental confidence of citizens and citizens in the institutions of this country, their employees and creates a sense of dirtyness and corruption of all politicians. They also clearly point to their disagreement at public meetings, and I am sure that we have understood the message of the Slovenian public by everyone sitting here today in this Chamber. Politicians and officials, in order to carry out our functions successfully, we urgently need the trust of our citizens. This, however, cannot be given us the function, not the political power or belonging of a party, but only honesty and justice within us. In modern democratic societies, it is self-evident and perfectly normal for politicians to respect minimum ethical and professional rules, although not written. It is entirely reasonable and self-evident that a person who misuses his or her position participates in the giving or taking of bribes, falsifies an official charter, damages public funds, is not fit to perform a public function. And this should be learned by each individual and withdraw from public functions, without pressure from the public or the media, which in some cases has already happened. Unfortunately, there is a very low level of political culture in our country, which is why we have assessed in the National Gazette that legal changes are also needed, in order to tighten the conditions for candidateing or appointment to public office, as well as the conditions for termination of the mandate, and this is the same for all public officials. In view of the clear and publicly expressed warnings from our citizens about lack of confidence in politics, I am convinced that it was in all the parliamentary groups that discussions and reflections on the necessary changes or measures were taking place. In the Civil Gazette, we have thus prepared a package of amendments to the seven laws that follow the same objective of raising political culture. In all, it is proposed to tighten the conditions for entry and stay in politics. In the current regime, there are virtually no conditions for entry into politics, except for age. So people who have been convicted or in criminal proceedings may enter and run into politics or are appointed to various public functions. However, the reason for the termination of the term of office is, and not in all the laws mentioned above, only a legal sentence of at least six months of unconditional imprisonment. The current legislation provides for significantly stricter conditions for the recruitment of a job for a public official, such as a referee in an administrative unit, than for public officials. The proposed amendments would introduce additional conditions for the submission of the application, while also introducing the same reasons for the termination of the function. In addition to full age and professional competence, a candidate or official should therefore not be legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than three months, or for officially persecutable criminal offences, even on probationary terms of imprisonment for more than three months. Nor should he be convicted, irrespective of the amount of the criminal offence, of official duty, of public authority and of public resources. It is also proposed that a criminal charge shall not be brought against an individual for an alleged offence pursued under an official obligation. Officials whose mandate would have been terminated on the basis of those criteria would not have been entitled to compensation for early termination. However, those who, in criminal proceedings, would have proved that the legal case was unfounded would have the right to compensation. The prohibition of an indictment shall cease after the expiry of three years of the jurisdiction. We are also proposing a new institute that would be available to citizens, namely the Mayor's recall. The procedure for recalling the mayor will be open, if the proposed solutions are adopted, to the initiative of the voter for withdrawal, which he would submit to the municipal council, together with the signatures of 2% of the electorate in the municipality. Otherwise, I couldn't have done it sooner than a year after the mayor's elections. Within a 35-day period, the instigator should collect signatures of an appropriate number of citizens, depending on the size of the municipality, for the invitation to referendum. The vote of the electorate would be valid if the majority of the voters involved voted for it. This way, the recall mayor cannot run for mayor in alternate elections and, at the same time as the mayor's term of office is terminated, the mayor's office is terminated. In the Civil Gazette, we would like to upgrade this novel during the legislative procedure with the proposals of the professional public and also the parliamentary groups and thus jointly develop changes that will provide all public officials – including Members – with a good basis for our credibility, vertical and ethical image. That is why I am asking you today to support these proposals. They, of course, have the support of Members and Members of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thanks for the introduction. Ms Jasmina Opec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Today we have before us a package of laws that have been named by the proponents by the legislation "Mr Musculo", which they believe will clean up politics, restore public confidence in the justice system and public confidence in politics. Daily news in Slovenia in 2013 has become rife with stories about plagiarism, corruption, criminal proceedings and allegedly moral acts of individuals from political and social life. It seems as if no day has brought good news to speak of the opening of new businesses, new jobs, new scientific discoveries. The state of the spirit that has been established is excruciating, unproductive, and sad. Mutual trust, respect and cooperation as if they no longer exist in the dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language. It created a climate that everyone in this society is corrupt, that no one can cross anything anymore, achieve in a fair way that everything is just a game of uncles from behind. We have led this country to the point that people no longer want to develop their potential, their talents, because their success would immediately raise doubts about their honesty. In the Slovenian People's Party we join the aspirations and good intentions of the proponents of these laws, who are trying to eliminate this negative climate of Slovenian society. They believe that we have recently witnessed a number of examples of individuals in important political functions who have encouraged citizens and citizens to believe that people in important functions do not need to respect any rules, let alone ethical standards. This is how the proposalers want to clear, through poor examples, the strict conditions for the assumption of the presidency of the Republic, the Prime Minister, ministers, state secretaries, Members, state councillors, mayors and municipal councillors. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always advocated the view that all those who in any way represent the people who decide and guide the rights and duties of this people must be a high moral model with their professional and private lives. However, questions are being raised as to how this will actually happen. Whatever law we adopt, it can only be the most basic basis. The ethical and moral principles of individuals will have to be implemented into society, and such a society will in itself have to eliminate ethically contentious individuals without the application of legal provisions. We also fully agree with the applicants that public confidence in the rule of law and the justice system must be restored. The functioning of the justice system is actually a painful wound to our country. Unreasonably long court proceedings, statutes of limitations for citizens of important matters, years of waiting for their right. Such a situation requires action immediately and now. However, it seems to us that in this task, the tasks of trust in the rule of law, we could take a slightly different path from the proposed laws today. Adopt a reform of justice that we have been waiting for almost 20 years and is the only one who can restore people's confidence in the rule of law by means of their legal and actual movements. With satisfaction and enthusiasm, we looked forward to the changes in this area prepared by former Justice Minister Senko Pličanič and to the hope that we would finally bite into an acid apple and start changing things for the better. We hope that his work will continue. Oh, yeah. We are here today to try, through the debate, also on the basis of the proposed laws, to find the right and right solutions to these most sensitive challenges of today. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have examined all the proposed laws, which carry the same tendency, from a substantive, moral and, of course, such as the legislator's task and duty, from a legal point of view. We support the aim of legislation to restore people's confidence in politics, but there are many legal dilemmas and uncertainties, all too many doubts, in accordance with the Constitution and its rights, which are the highest standard not only of our country, but of modern democracy in general. Due to the sensitivity and importance of the protection of constitutional rights, in the event of the continuation of the procedure, we will pay particular attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, constitutional and other legal professionals, by which our doubts will be answered. The dilemmas also open up to us in the inequality of active and passive electoral rights, with legal consequences on the basis of a legal case where we are interfering with the presumption of innocence. We are also left with the question of who, and on what basis, will pay financial compensation to the policy when it has ceased to function on the grounds of a legal charge and against which the trial has not started at all, if it has been demonstrated in the proceedings for such or other reasons that the guilt has not been proven to it. The gap in the proposed solutions is also reflected in the mayor's withdrawal institute, where there are no specified reasons why the recall process can begin at all. This deficiency, along with other provisions, can in practice become a reverse asset, as the proposal for a law follows. Instead of cleaning up local policy, such proponents could become a very powerful means of political fraud, blackmail and instigation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have never caught our eyes in the face of the problems of our society and our ears before the cries and calls of citizens and citizens. This is also how we today hear cries from a more just and fair society, following the changes that are necessary if we are to build a country of the future. We welcome the good intentions of the applicants, the return of people's confidence in the justice system and politics, and we do not want these intentions to end at the very beginning of the proceedings. We note, however, that proposals will have to be finalized and complemented in concrete terms, so that there will be no dilemmas about the unconstitutionality and non-compliance of the proposed legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you, too. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State! The Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette has independently introduced a package of laws relating to the legal strengthening of the conditions for candidateing and only the exercise of the functions of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Members, State Councillors, Mayors and Municipal Councillors. At first, a substantively identical law was introduced, which also referred to the role of Prime Minister and Ministers, but a decision was taken on the withdrawal of this law, namely from a procedural point of view, but in our view the content concerning the limitation of officials could also be included in yesterday's consideration of the amendment to the Government Act. These new conditions contained in these laws relate to the absence of a legal sentence on a non-requiremental sentence of imprisonment for more than three months or because of an intentional criminal offence prosecuted under official duty, to a conditional penalty of imprisonment for the same duration, the absence of a legal conviction for which of a criminal offence against official duty, public authority and public resources, the absence of a legal indictment for a preconceived criminal offence. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposed solutions and, if invited, we would also sign the proposed laws. They argue that public confidence in the quality, responsibility and professional performance of functions is at a very low level. This was also said by protestors at all protests. It was right that we listened to their demands, it was right that we thought about them, and that the changes in the laws we are considering today are understood as responding to the demands we have heard. In the light of the conditions to be met by persons applying for a post of public servant, the conditions for candidates for posts of office are disproportionately lighter. A convict can practically run for office, while an official can't come close to his workplace. Thus, in the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the conditions for candidateing these responsible positions should be stricter, but they are not, and in this sense we support the laws. Even so, the highest public officials are expected to be honest, responsible, ethical and moral. All of these should be examples of citizens and citizens, for whom they are also working at the final stage and for which they are in these functions. Today we find that everything is before that. All too much is dishonesty, irresponsible work, unethical and immoral action. Any official for whom, for example, the pre-trial phase of the procedure has established the suspicion of a criminal offence and on this basis has also been charged with becoming a legal person should, in his conscience, have withdrawn. Officials move away abroad for much easier things. In our case, though, in spite of the obvious acts committed by law enforcement authorities, some act as if the evidence does not apply to them. There is also a feeling that they do not know what those procedures are that they do, which are inappropriate for such a function and should therefore draw consistency. There are too many cases in politics where officials are in the role of investigators, defendants, in individual cases also convicts. And almost always comes from their claims about the political structure that runs against them just to get them suspended. This expression of the political structure has already been so settled in some that it is also used in cases where the courts with legal acts find them to be guilty or responsible. Saying the latter is simply not serious. On the other hand, there is an increasing impression of the bias of justice or of the different treatment of citizens before the judicial authorities. The adoption of this package of laws requires a qualified majority. The Law on Elections to the National Assembly, as the amendment to the Law on the State Council, requires 60 votes and more, while the other laws are subject to the common majority. It can happen that everyone won't accept. And then what? Some officials would be subject to stricter restrictions, while others would not. We are therefore wondering whether it might indicate that we are using the procedure taken by the Council of State in relation to the rights of the meetings and are creating a new law whose adoption is not conditional on a majority higher than the ordinary one. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the latter should also be taken into account. However, as has already been said, Members and Members of the DeSUS Group will contribute their votes in order to continue the process of the entire package of proposed laws. With or as a professional public, I am referring here to eminent lawyers, to comment on the content itself, and we expect a broader and constructive debate when we may vote on the appropriateness of these laws for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you, too. The following is Mr Jožef Horvat, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar! First of all, in Novi Slovenija we regret that the reform of the judiciary presented to us by Minister Senko Plicanič at the end of last year has actually failed. Of course, we will be a little calmed if he has the opportunity to continue this reform within the framework of the new government that is emerging. This reform is absolutely necessary, although, as he himself said in the presentation of the concept of this reform, there is no willingness on the part of those most repressed by this reform and that virtually everyone has been on their feet. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what has actually happened to us in these 20 years of the independent state of Slovenia that we have so severely undermined traditional Slovenian values or, if you want, common human values, that actual honesty and justice somehow lose their domestic rights in Slovenia. That it happens to us that, by definition, the highest moral value in the country gives the person who has proved to be stealing another opportunity. We must probably start raising children in families, kindergartens, primary schools to raise a generation of honest, ethical citizens, so that we do not deal with the problems that appear on the front pages of Slovenian newspapers and in other media. In particular, to draft laws. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia regulates electoral law in Article 43. In the first paragraph of this Article, it states that an active and passive electoral right shall be exercised by every adult without restriction. The proposed amendments and additions to the so-called functional laws interfere with the passive electoral right for the election of Members, State Councillors, the President of the Republic, mayors and municipal councillors. This right shall be restricted in such a way that the candidate who, in addition to the constitutionally guaranteed right, has the right to be loved shall have three months in prison or more or a probationary sentence of at least three months in addition to the right provided for in law, in the case of an offence prosecuted under official duty. Moreover, those who have been convicted of crimes against official duty, public authority and public resources and even if a person is legally accused cannot be loved for these functions. We understand the desire and purpose of the proponents who want to clean up political space and prevent access to the highest public functions of persons with a criminal past, but this must be done in a manner consistent with the Slovenian Constitution and constitutionally guaranteed rights. We wonder whether the proposed restrictions on passive electoral rights are even consistent with our constitutional arrangements. The Constitution does not speak about the permissibility of statutory restrictions on electoral rights, active and passive, and does not, in our opinion, allow them. On the other hand, we have concerns about the implementation of such restrictions in the selection procedures. If each individual candidate is required to submit a certificate to the competent ministry of impunity and appropriate confirmation by the courts that no legal charge has been brought against the candidate, we are afraid that due to relatively short time limits, there will be no confirmation of the candidates for formal reasons. Both the court and the ministry have a time limit for issuing a certificate in the law, but it is not uncommon for the issue of such a certificate to take longer. At the time of the election, a large number of applications for such certificates would take a month or more. In this way, for purely formal reasons, certain candidates could be voted out. Such a solution, as proposed by the proposers, would require a significantly more detailed system of verification of the conditions of impunity than set out in the amendments. In New Slovenia, we also have significant substantive reservations to the proposal that passive voting rights be restricted to the legally accused candidates. It is only reasonable to suspect that someone committed a crime. Such a low standard would also allow abuse for purely political purposes and for the elimination of political competitors. Of course, the issue of constitutionality and illegality also arises, since the cessation or loss of certain rights under our legislation can only occur through the jurisdiction of the judgment. Inadequate and incomplete legal solutions are proposed to terminate the term of office if he is sentenced to a term of imprisonment of more than three months, or a probationary sentence of three months if the offence is officially prosecuted or if the official has been convicted of an offence against an official duty, public authority and public resources. In this case, the officer should be suspended from his/her term of office on the date on which the authority receives the notification of the jurisdiction of the conviction. We assume that the proponents had in mind that the Authority will inform the Ministry of Justice and Public Administration or the new Ministry of Justice, which is solely responsible for the management of criminal records under the applicable law. At the same time, they would highlight the problem of keeping records of officials, Members, state councillors, mayors, sub-districts, municipal councillors. A new database should be set up to record all functions, the names of the officials and the date of occurrence of the function. The integration of this database with criminal records should then be ensured. Of course, it is necessary to ensure the update of the notification of the authorities in which the official is acting, since, while leaving this duty, there could be a situation where, despite a legal conviction, a person is still in office or is still carrying out a certain period after a legal conviction until the receipt of the certificate. In addition, any legal consequence of a legal conviction must have a limited duration. The proposals of these functional laws do not introduce such restrictions. This means that, for example, someone who has committed an unaccompanied crime, such as a traffic accident, and will be sentenced to three months in prison on probation, will never again be able to take part in any public function. We also point out that the legislation already in force regulates the termination of the term of office of an official who is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for a term of six months or more. In Novi Slovenija we will not support the first reading of the proposals of the five functional laws: the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, the Law on Members, the Law on the State Council, the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic and the Law on Local Elections for the reasons I presented earlier. However, I must also point out that in restricting access to and exercise of public functions governed by these laws, there is also a need for comparative legal arrangements in other countries of the European Union. None of the countries have such strong restrictions in this area, but most of them are mature democratic states. I'm sure they have a strong argument about this. One of them is that the weight of the responsibility must be to propose fair and credible candidates to the political parties themselves. In particular, I would like to define myself before the proposal for amendments to the Local Self-Government Act, which also regulates the mayor's recall by referendum. We support the idea that levers should be put in place to relieve those mayors who, in their work, prove that they are not worthy of such a function. However, legislative solutions must be adopted that will at the same time prevent the use or, rather, abuse of this institution for unjustified political accounting and destabilisation. In New Slovenia, we believe that a sufficiently high threshold should be laid down to put forward an initiative to call for a legislative referendum. In this way, we will prevent unwarranted investment in referendum initiatives. We must be aware that, during the referendum procedure, the work of the mayor in the local community will be suspended. During this time, the mayor will take over the current task of answering the obvious about his past work. We also have doubts about the expenditure to carry out the referendum, which, by the way, burdens the local community's budget. We believe that appropriate fuses in this direction should also be installed in the system. The possible multiple implementation of the referendum would have a significant impact on local community budget expenditure. One possible solution would also be to bear the costs of a failed referendum by the proposer himself. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the law on local self-government in the first reading. However, further parliamentary treatment of the law, we will advocate the adoption of legislative solutions, as I have presented them in my position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you, too. Ms Maša Kociper will present the views of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia. .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Of course, in Positive Slovenia we also support the intent of the proposed legislation after raising political culture and also after restoring confidence in politics as well as in all political and other officials who perform important functions in our country. At present, the reputation of these people in our country is indeed at the lowest possible level, mainly due to some exceptional cases, but also due to the slow functioning of the judiciary. As always, however, some politicians bear a lot of blame. On the one hand, a policy that does not recognise a court directly undermines the necessary authority of the judiciary and, on the other hand, wants to create an indirect sense that justice is biased, unprofessional and guided by another part of the policy, which is often interpreted as having two legal states: one for ordinary citizens and the other for privileged. People's trust in the rule of law and the rule of law has also begun because of this kind of irresponsible behaviour of politicians. The level of confidence in the public and the justice system is crucial for its effective functioning. The same applies, of course, to public confidence in politics. All of this leads to harmful feelings that we are all equal to each other and that the only alternative is to reject politics altogether. The conduct of politicians in criminal proceedings, who insist on their functions or despite criminal proceedings and criminal convictions, continues to persist in their functions, is therefore harmful and creates a feeling that I have already mentioned. The current legislation does not really oblige officials who are in criminal proceedings to resign or allow them to terminate their functions under the law. Not only is it a situation, but it is a decline in political culture, a breakdown of fundamental trust and the adoption of key links in the social contract that all together affects the proportion of people who are dissatisfied with the situation and require decisive but thoughtful and principled action. In this respect, positive Slovenia's efforts are also being made. Since the beginning of this mandate in Positive Slovenia, we have been working ourselves to find solutions to some of the open questions raised in our society. One of them is: Is it possible to use the institution to call a Member in our system? Unfortunately, a detailed insight into the comparative arrangements shows that the institution of a Member's recall is by no means suitable for the type of regime, the type of electoral system we have in our country – for a proportional system, and is not used anywhere in the world in such a system. Such arrangements, for example, would allow for a number of abuses and even increase the power of political parties that could bind Members even more firmly and discipline them, or they would be subject to certain so-called disciplinary measures. Even in the area addressed today by the legislation before us, in Positive Slovenia we have tried and sought solutions, even before the basic initiative given by the extraparliamentary party Zares came to us. In establishing the future coalition, we hoped and expected that new legislation could be tabled together, but unfortunately, it has been taken over by the National Gazette, which, of course, is not wrong in principle and can be changed later in the process. In our parliamentary group, we are working consistently and we represent the view that the legislator himself is obliged to carry out a preliminary assessment of the constitutionality of the bill, also in terms of a test of proportionality, legality and the protection of human rights and freedoms. This is the main task of the legislator. Only at a later stage, if the legislator fails, is it the task of the Constitutional Court to detect any unconstitutionalities and, if necessary, remove them. Therefore, in Positive Slovenia, we do not want to adopt legislation that is in any way constitutionally controversial and controversial from the point of view of human rights. In this regard, I also refer to our coalition partners to reflect on this legislation on a public presentation of opinions in which to consult with the greatest legal experts on open issues. The dilemmas that arise in this legislation will not be repeated by the solutions themselves, because they have been told so many times, are clear. As regards constitutional rights, they concern in particular the right to general electoral law and the constitutional right to claim innocence. With regard to the general electoral right provided for in Article 43 of the Constitution, this right is very clearly defined in the Constitution and is also reinforced by the provisions of the Constitutional Court, which in the past made it clear that it is not possible to prejudice this right in such a way and that the Constitution does not provide for any additional provisions which could provide for additional conditions in relation to general electoral law other than those laid down in the Constitution. Furthermore, in the view of the Constitutional Court, intervention in active electoral law and also in passively permissible only, if necessary, for the protection of the rights of others or the protection of the public interest, if it protects the rights of others and if it favours a proportionality test. There must also be a procedure for the seizure of voting rights in which constitutional protection must be provided. This is about the first principle, the principle of general and equal electoral rights, which applies to both active and passive electoral rights. With regard to the presumption of innocence, here too, our constitution clearly states that everyone is innocent until his guilt is determined by a lawful and impartial court. In restricting this constitutional right, it is also necessary to be very careful and to find solutions that are consistent with this provision, as well as with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, which considers that any right relating to less than a criminal conviction constitutes a violation of the provisions of that Article of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is Article 3 of Protocol No 1 to the European Convention. In this context, we therefore want a broad professional debate to be held and possible solutions to these problems to be found. In this context, we would also like to have answers to the questions that we have proposed in Positive Slovenia in our package of legislation: whether there are certain obligations for judicial authorities to restrict such rights, such important personal rights of individual citizens. It is said that the judicial authorities are obliged in these cases to act in a particularly rapid manner and that, in our view, they are also set a time limit within which the decision would be taken. It is indeed unacceptable that, in the event of such a profound intervention in rights as, in particular, an intervention in the right to run for political office, the judicial authorities would not be limited to this duty and would simply accept the established practice of deciding on a right for 3, 4, 5 years. What about a person who has been violated by such an important constitutional right at that time? Of course, the following questions are related. First of all, what is the time limit for a person to run for office? Is this true throughout life, and is this in line with the proportionality test? What is the rehabilitation of a person if, after a few years, an ongoing procedure shows that a person has been found innocent? What can be the cost of compensation for the country? It can be very large amounts. Let's not forget, according to our legislation and universally accepted standards, people, criminals, if we call them, who have been in custody or in prison for a long time, if they are known to be innocent, for example, due to lack of evidence, are entitled to compensation for the entire duration of imprisonment, for every single day. Can someone who has been reduced in his or her right and cannot exercise his or her rights later receive some compensation? These are all the questions that need to be raised. As we said at the outset, we also welcome the general situation in society this thought that this debate is being held, that we should discuss it once and see if solutions exist. In doing so, we will also be assisted by comparative legislation, where I say so, from the proposaler's introduction, that in comparative countries they have solutions related to the withdrawal from their functions, usually made by a temporary withdrawal, which is the case for the duration of the procedure, the right is not withdrawn, but is suspended. This applies, for example, to Latvia, Portugal, Spain. In Canada, for example, the term of office of a member of a Senate accused of a crime is frozen. These are solutions that are temporary, temporarily removed from office until then innocence or guilt has been proven and, of course, compensation consequences may be less severe in this case. In Positive Slovenia, too, we will take all necessary steps and make sure that we find solutions and respond to the demands of those and us who think it is necessary to align officials with civil servants, but I must say that the legitimacy of the officials is quite different from the civil servants, the official is only elected and the civil servant is in a working relationship, because the conditions under the law are, of course, easier to determine. Another thought for the end. I agree with those, one of them is a recognised expert, Dr Kersevan, who says that all problem relationships at work cannot be resolved through law and law, but this may be one attempt in the right direction to change something for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. .
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, a very nice greeting. The real question now was whether there was a path, a way to improve the level of political culture, to increase the level of responsibility of elected officials to those chosen and helped to achieve more general culture, political culture and the faster development of the country of Slovenia. The answer is simple. Yes, it is. And it's called a two-way majority electoral system. Unfortunately, we are not talking about this today, we are talking about the laws that are before us today, by having a single weak point in common. If the applicants were to take seriously the objectives they set themselves, we should today discuss changes to the Slovenian Constitution, because such restrictions, such solutions can be legally undisputedly regulated at the level of the Constitution. However, laws that are so obviously unconstitutional that, for example, for the President of the State, they propose the termination or termination of a function, if only an indictment is brought against him, but at present we have a constitution that speaks of the constitutional charge of the President of the State, when only and exclusively for violations of the Constitution itself or serious violations of the law can the National Assembly, and by a qualified majority, initiate an indictment before the Constitutional Court and also the Constitutional Court decides by a two-thirds majority, and only in this case there will be a discharge. It is probably clear to everyone, including the legal layman, that it is completely incompatible, that these laws are in more than obvious contravention of the Slovenian Constitution and that obviously those he proposed had no serious intention of regulating these matters. Unfortunately, because they should be settled, but the way you have decided is unfortunately wrong, it is legally controversial and does not actually lead to a goal that you are declaring yourself. These laws are nothing more than smoke to mask the emerging unrest of the coalition. I don't know what further discussion you said you would start now, but I think it's just a reflection of that. As for the constitutional experts and others who have spoken on this subject, everyone has made very clear exactly what I am telling you and what the Slovenian government has said very clearly. The solutions you have proposed in these laws are clearly contrary to the Constitution. Even if such laws were adopted, the vast majority of them would, at least a large majority of these controversial provisions, have immediately experienced a rather infamous end in the Constitutional Court. That certainly can't be the point. The goal must be to actually fix this. One of the Members representing the Group's position, specifically the SD, said that the aim was to raise the level of political culture. We absolutely agree, but political culture also requires that we propose a legal act that is enforceable, which is in accordance with the Constitution, or that we propose a change to the Constitution. It is also a political culture that we have mastered so much that we know how to tackle the problem of reaching a real goal. Then it was already said, we can do the most by ourselves and let everyone who acted contrary to ethics go away. That, too, I must say, is more than I agree with. And believe me, we agree with everyone in the SDS Group. So let the president of the party who is even here among the applicants who has taken the compensation and served at the same time in a gratuitous manner, because that is also contrary to ethics. If you want to support with action what you're proposing. But if you don't, then tell me what's really going on. What is legally problematic in this is all that concerns the issue of passive electoral rights. Passive electoral rights are not restricted by the constitution. The Constitutional Court, however, is the principle of when this is admissible, it is said that when it comes to proportionality of the measure and when, in fact, it follows a public interest that is otherwise impossible to achieve, it is permissible to regulate it by law. So it would already be valid to cut into the constitution if we really wanted to settle these things. What is most controversial and, of course, all proposers are also concerned and added out of obvious pure demagogism, is that these proposed laws are negating even the principle of the presumption of innocence. This is from the beginning of Roman law to today the foundation of any legal regime that is recognised as legal in terms of modern democratic law. That the presumption of innocence for everyone until it is legally binding by the judgment of the court is condemned. In this case, you also have proposals with the President of the country as well as with everyone else: if a legal indictment is filed, bye-bye. Yeah, wait a minute, where's respect for some fundamental legal principles here? So simple these things cannot be regulated, but, of course, a lot of demagogies can be used in this way, but we will not come anywhere with such demagogies. It is also a matter of political culture to talk about things that are serious and how to do so. For this reason, I would point out that, if anything, we should talk about other ways that are possible and give people a real opportunity to make their own decisions and make their own arrangements, just as they feel and know that it is necessary. And as long as we have a proportional electoral system, I'm sorry, we're not going anywhere. We can polish it, we can accept some restrictions, then the Constitutional Court can cancel them, and we can supplement the current system, but we will still remain a fundamental problem. Only when the elected officials are fully directly responsible to the electorate and are primarily committed to the electorate and only to the secondary political parties, does the political culture have the possibility of fully recovering, especially in situations specific to the state of Slovenia. You have proposed the discharge of the mayors with a referendum on recall. This is a method also known by the United States of America and some other countries. Personally, I must say that I am very much in favour of any such method being implemented. But I'm sorry, not just for the mayors. If we are to be credible, this must first be applied to Members themselves and to all other directly-loved officials only after that. Of course, it is true that you yourself have found this to be practical in a proportional electoral system impossible. And because of this I am returning the matter to the beginning, today is the first consideration of these laws, when we can look at everything, including ways, goals, paths leading to the stated goal. And of course it turns out there's only one option. If we want to be consistent – and I say that we must be, if we really want to pursue these goals, then the only way to get serious is to talk about a solution that, I firmly believe, is by far the vast majority of all citizens and citizens. And this is a two-way majority electoral system. We already have him as the President of the country, and we will introduce him as Members and Members, as well as for all other directly-loved officials. And it will be very quick to find out who is who, and very soon to go, those for whom people will assess that they do not meet the criteria, either ethical or all the others. And that doesn't mean I don't need to know any radical legal restrictions. But we'd have done a lot more. Much more than what is today's declared goal. We would achieve something again without which long-term democracy cannot function. This is greater confidence in the institutions of the system. With no legal restriction on who can run, who can't, but I don't know what, because this is going to be resolved in one way or another through different institutions, we're not going to achieve the simple trust that people have. And at this point, you won't believe it, they have it primarily in elected mayors. Just because they're elected directly, directly. Because they know that the voice they give is actually going to this person, not the client, and then it's divided by what kind of keys we can turn, and we never get to the goal that we're following. What happens then is a great display if you have a proportional system, the current state. The whole story – from the last election or a few more elections back if we go to watch. In a way, it is also an argument that something needs to be changed. People must have more confidence in democratic institutions, because otherwise the country cannot function successfully in the long run. That's not my conclusion. That's what every science textbook says. This is the experience of many countries around the world that, when they did not respect it, they did not want to see the right time to face severe crises, long - term crises that left scars in the fabric of society. And there is no reason for Slovenia to take such a path. It's not the right way to change now, and I don't know what restrictions to accept with law. The right path should be to look for a system that would increase people's confidence in the country's institutions while at the same time allowing greater economic success. So that the current one is not enough, we have two wonderful cases in the last few days, if you want. Just yesterday, it was announced that the emerging "garmin" coalition had been recalculated and redistributed, resources. Now she's gonna start talking about the program. The program is for people. This is said to be a great place to see that the proportional electoral system is solely in the interest of political elites to distribute chairs, and then they start to talk about what they're going to do. Normally in every country it would be that you have a clear programme first, and then on that basis, you decide what the best people are to do with this program. And here it's all upside down because of the wrong system. We should talk about this. And that's why people's trust in this system is falling. And that's why the term "garmin" of the coalition I'm using is more than obviously justified. By the way, it's also a story with the election of the current terminator or this non-truster. In the last elections, people were thrown out of Parliament, really, if I may recall. That was one of the biggest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u19	Mr Grims, I am sorry to intervene in this debate, but I suggest that in presenting the position of the Group of Members, however, focus on the package of legislation that we are considering today, the debate on the government and all the procedures related to this have already been partially carried out. It will also, of course, follow because there is a so-called hearing of ministers and the appointment of a government. So I ask you to stay with the content of the laws that we are considering today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u20	Of course, Mr President, when we first examine the draft laws and the Rules of Procedure say that this is intended to explain whether it follows the objectives or is possible to achieve those objectives in any other way. And that's exactly the essence of my debate. But I believe you don't like it, and I understand that, but it's a democracy. That's what I was gonna say. At the last election, he flew out for real. People just voted for Positive Slovenia because they saw someone there who was headed as, say, from the point of view of a capable mandate holder. Now they're going to get Mrs. Bratuškovo, who was with Zares. This is something that certainly does not help to increase trust in the institutions of the system [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] This should also be considered. This all affects one atmosphere in society. Let's also say your cry now [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u21	One more intervention, but this time I apologize to you again, Mr Grims. Mr. Jakič, you don't have a word and please don't disturb the speaker. The only one who can reach into this debate is me. Mr. Jakich, please calm down. Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u22	As a result, two can be seen in this series of laws. On the one hand, some solutions would certainly be appropriate if they were proposed at the constitutional level. On the other hand, there are some solutions that could probably have been enacted without amending the Constitution, but it should be written down slightly differently in order to avoid the issue of compliance with the Constitution. And the fundamental question is how much we are prepared Members and Members or political parties to cut themselves entirely into their own interests and to see what the real interest of the people is. The real interest of people, but I firmly believe, is to establish a general level of political culture, that people have the first and last words, and that they also feel this in elections and referendums, and that an environment that will be economically effective, which will be stable for the development of entrepreneurship will be established. Ladies and gentlemen, we are back on the two-way majority electoral system. When we talk about him, then I will believe in the honesty of all the candidates. As it is said, we are prepared to talk about individual solutions, but the whole package in the form it is now can only be found unfortunately that it is not in conformity with the Slovenian Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you. We have thus concluded with a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposals of the laws. First, I give my word to Mr Sam Bevk, and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat is prepared. But I see Mr. Branisl's raised hand. You want to be a proponent? Yeah. Mr. Richard Branisel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much. As a proposaler, in view of the heard round of views of the groups of Members, I would like to make some express concerns, a dilemma, a few answers. The presumption of innocence at this time is not in any way compromised by this solution. The candidate is, of course, still an innocent person, even though he has been charged with a legal charge. And we're not saying that he's already convicted of being a criminal, that whatever it is, we're just saying that this criminal procedure, which is confirmed by a criminal charge, makes him unfit to continue in office. That's all. By, of course, still treating him as innocent. Second thing. One set of nomotechnic problems has been reported to this marriage package. Yeah, we agree, probably this marriage isn't ideal, all these solutions aren't ideal for nomotechnics. However, the Civil Code only has modest capacities concerning constitutional and other legal knowledge. However, these are not the reasons why this could not be resolved later in the process, when we will also get the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and probably some other lawyer. If the way is right, it will also be possible for these laws to be reformed in both nominal and substantive terms if we agree there and if we find better solutions. As far as unconstitutionality is concerned. I have a feeling that if we want something not to be adopted or not going through, then it's easy to say that something is unconstitutional. I think I have already said in the proposaler's position that we have made quite some efforts to convince you otherwise that the solutions are constitutional, we have also said why they are constitutional, what this law takes into account, and I do not think it is right to make such an easy decision with these legal proposals with the usual footnote that the matter is unconstitutional. However, if it is found that the matter is actually constitutionally disputed in the course of the procedure, we will have no reason whatsoever, we will not insist on it, but we think that the way is right and that all these dilemmas can be resolved when the time is right. All these novels of marriage are, you see, written very easily. In fact, we follow that, given that they are simply written, they are also effective. My colleague Horvat pointed out that we are actually going to dump the Ministry of Justice and the courts with all these requests for certification. For all candidates, this can be obtained in one day. They have such resources for this service, and we will not overload them with anything. This does not constitute an additional administrative obstacle if these certificates are to be obtained. I think that with my colleague Grims, when he highlighted the position of the SDS Group, I have actually found or observed that his path seems correct, that the basic problem seems to him to be unconstitutional, but we can still test these things in the process ahead, but I think he also mentioned that the way is right. In fact, I thank you for such views, and I will continue to answer any further questions and dilemmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you. There's a mag on the replica. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you. I have three parts to say. First. I didn't say it was the right way. I said the goals are to support them. It's the wrong way. When you said it wasn't a matter of the charge. The President of the Republic shall cease his term of office if he is charged with a legal charge, etc. That's what your bill says, and it's the same for the rest of us. This is exactly what it is, and this is obviously unconstitutional, according to several articles of the Slovenian Constitution that I have quoted, and it is really a shame to lose words about it. But speaking of goals, I firmly believe once again that the objective of the system should be to allow the voice of the people to be the first and the last, to have an economically stable environment and to cease the policy to be one, even within the mandate of infinity, the emerging trade in everything, from principles to ethics, must to votes, to what I do not know. The only path we have been offering in the SDS for 15 years, which in fact eliminates this, is a two-way majority electoral system. When you have an election coalition in front of you, you have a team with a program that faces people, people choose and the next day, you know who's in charge of that term, and which program does. Entrepreneurs have a stable environment and people gain confidence in the system. Without it, Slovenia will not succeed in the long run. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you. We are going to the general debate of Members and Members or we are at the beginning of the list. Mr. Bevk only has the floor. Get Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! As the former president of the National Assembly, Dr Pavel Gantar, said, the idea for a package of laws of the National Gazette was created in the intellectual workshops of Zares. At the press conference, the president of the National Gazette and the former president of the National Assembly, Dr. Gregor Virant, addressed this package to Mr. Musculo, an advertising hero. When I used Mr. Musculo's words to type into my web browser, I first got a copy of the report that it was a waste cleaner. So in this package, it's some kind of cleaning for the National Assembly, the State Council and the mayor's offices. You know, when it comes to cleaning, it's usually too late. Unfortunately, Mr. Musculo is not helping, but appropriateness and cleanliness must be taken care of substantially earlier. In public and even today, it has been heard that Mr. Musculo's package is intended to help raise political culture and contribute to political hygiene in Slovenia. My personal opinion is that no law can make a significant contribution to raising political culture or raising political hygiene in the country. It is up to each person to make the most of this and first to ask himself whether it meets the generally applicable criteria for the performance of a political function. It is then the political party that has the highest responsibility when deciding who to propose for candidates and candidates in elections or for functions in different bodies at both local and national level. A couple of clients dropped out of the exam. It is therefore very important that the principles of integrity, ethics and morality be adhered to by all those who are preparing for the upcoming national or local elections, both existing parliamentary and extraparliamentary parties, various client lists that are very popular at local level, and in particular new movements and new political parties that are yet to be formed, as well as those who will propose or hold important seats in state banks, businesses and supervisory councils, wherever the country has a significant ownership stake. The package of laws, which is now on the agenda, will not contribute to raising political culture in Slovenia. We must first respect constitutional and legal order and act ethically and morally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. One change from the previous forecast. It's Dr. Gregor Virant. Get ready, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The key words of this legislative package that we are discussing today are political hygiene and trust. Trust is one important virtue. More than 2,500 years ago Confucius, when asked what was most important for a society to be able to live and coexist, replied that these were three things: an army, food for people, and trust. When asked which of these was the most difficult thing to miss and without which society could not function, he said that it was trust, especially trust in power. I have recently read a book entitled Happiness, which shows the results of research that have been done in countries where, according to international standards, the so-called standard of human happiness is the highest, it is said, where people are on average the happiest. The Scandinavian countries are always included in these countries. And when they went to explore what was the most important factor for people in Scandinavian countries to be happier on average than elsewhere, they found that it was not money, that it was not a high material standard, but that it was simply a fact that people trusted each other to trust that they would not steal, that the government would not steal, trust each other, trust a neighbor, a policeman, a minister, trust politicians. So it's about trust. This package of laws that we are talking about today actually brings a common denominator that everyone should probably agree that people in public office should not be lawbreakers. That's what this is about. In this law we bring a standard whereby there is no room in politics for those who have broken the penal law or are deeply in criminal proceedings. When I say deep in criminal proceedings, I'm referring to a criminal charge. The indictment is not only an act of the prosecutor, but it is an act which has already been tested at two stages in court. So, we have the prosecutor's indictment and the decision in two court cases that this indictment stands. This is according to our assessment, and I think that this assessment is shared by the majority in this Chamber, in the National Assembly, that there is no place for such people in politics. The messages we are hearing, from Slovenian markets and streets in recent months, are very clear that people want more decency in politics, some cleansing in politics. Of course, each one has his own idea of who should be thrown out of politics. One would drive Janša away, the other would drive Janković away, the third would drive us all away. Since we have democracy, the best way to clean up politics is to vote, and in Slovenia we will have very likely this year or the next spring of this election. The opportunity to empower people to manage the country to those who do not trust them will therefore be in early elections. Of course, it is illusory to think that after any election, we will have power over which people will be delighted. Not a single president, not a single government has fully lived up to its expectations and will never be. Some dose of skepticism and dissatisfaction with power always exists, and it is also right that it is, it is healthy. The reputation of politics in Slovenia is at a critical low point – to a large extent justified, because there are very many negative phenomena, an affair, inappropriate communication with the public, with individual social groups. We have a President-in-Office of the Coalition Party and, once again, a newly frozen and almost withdrawn President of the current largest opposition party, for which the Commission has found serious violations of anti-corruption legislation in order to prevent corruption, so the competent authority has identified this. We are going to such absurdities that in Parliament, with all due respect for all others, we must deal with Members and Members who must falsify the secondary school certificate for the assessment of the good of three. We have fallen so low, so low is the political culture in this country that we are dealing in politics with people with whom every next document they write is immediately exposed as a forgery. Of course, we clean up a lot of this ourselves, even in the SDS you did it elegantly in two cases. And it's also right that you did. What we are discussing today is a systemic marriage solution. The proposed package of laws does not refer to ethical or moral standards, so it is not a question of moralism, it is a matter of pure, legally defined conditions, the standards of entry into politics and the existence of a policy. The basic idea is very simple. There must be no room on the political scene for people who are deeply involved in criminal proceedings or who are even legally convicted of crimes. Such people must not enter politics, but if they are in it and it happens to them, they must get out of it. The question is whether it is temporary, whether it is some kind of freeze or a simple termination of a mandate, we can talk about it in the second reading, but it is essential that someone who is so deeply in criminal proceedings. Let him defend himself and prove his innocence as a civilian, so to speak, not from the position of authority, not from the position of authority. This is a minimum hygiene standard that I think we should all agree to, although we have different opinions, we do not agree on many things, we have different political views. It's not a sin. There is nothing wrong with having different political views. I don't know how a person's position can be judged as being repudiated or immoral or unethical or anything. These are some minimum standards, but around them, I think, we can reach a common denominator. We do not want to disqualify people who are in criminal proceedings or are convicted of their private life or their professional life in general. Everyone can do their job. In individual professions, it is clearly defined when someone loses a license, when they can no longer carry out a profession, when they cancel a work relationship. However, we think that politicians, i.e. people who are in public office, people who enjoy public confidence, people who are not in criminal proceedings and who have not been convicted. I think it's such a basic matter that I don't know how anyone can be against this standard. It's some basic standard that everyone should support. In the Civil Gazette, we strongly support it, aware that it will also apply to our candidates and our elected officials. We also thank you for your support to all those who have announced it – either definitively or conditionally and of course we announce that we are open to amendments in the second reading, for all the solutions that would improve these laws, which would eventually eliminate any possible doubt about unconstitutionality. The professional assistance we have in the parliamentary group is good, it is very quality, but it is something quite different, such as the capacity available to the Government when proposing its laws. Part of this package is also the possibility of calling off the mayor. I do not think there is a man in Slovenia who would not agree that the mayor is one of the most protected officials. The mayor is protected as a "bone bear". It is practically impossible to achieve the termination of his function. And what we want to achieve by law is that, just as people have entrusted the mayor with trust, people have entrusted the mandate that people can also withdraw that trust from him in a legally granted way. By collecting a number of certified signatures, voting on this basis, and that if people vote by majority to call off the mayor, then the mayor's office ends. It's a clean solution. If the people with the mayor are no longer satisfied if they see that he's in some corruption stories, if he's no longer trustworthy, they'll go to the polls, get the signatures, they'll go to the polls, and they'll call him off. It's so simple. And it's true. It would be great if we had the opportunity to recall the Member of Parliament, and we are prepared to look into it together with other solutions, because it would be equally correct and equally necessary to ensure that too. Of course, this legislation is not some magic wand that will now clean up all politics overnight, solve all policy problems, raise people's confidence that when we accept it, and the next day people will say that Slovenian politics is okay. Of course not! But it's a step this way. And in these times, every step we take in this direction to strengthen people's trust is very important. Of course, the issue of the electoral system is also very important. Here with my colleague Grims, I agree that the electoral system is still very important when it comes to the question of the confidence of the people of elected Members. And we very much agree in the Civil Gazette that the electoral system should be amended to comply with the Slovenian Constitution. We must not forget that the electoral system by which we voted in the last elections is not in line with the basic text of the constitution. More. We have written in the constitution that in Slovenia we love the National Assembly according to the proportional electoral system. Okay. That's guaranteed. However, we also have written in the constitution that voters have a decisive influence on which candidate to be elected. And we didn't realize that. We have a constitutional law that, in a transitional provision, imposes a temporary solution. Here it has proved to be that many times in life temporary solutions are the most durable. We have a temporary solution since 2000, and we are unable to take this step to reconcile the electoral system with the constitution and at the same time give people what they absolutely expect: to be able to decide which candidate will be elected. Not only which party will get the votes in Parliament. And that is why, of course, it is not necessary to introduce a majority electoral system in order to understand each other, this is a completely different story and another debate. The majority electoral system brings total polarization. This is what at least we need in this country, the least we want, the final division of politics, I will say conditionally, to partisans and patriots, which is the least we want. Especially the younger generations don't want that. We don't want to decide between black and red, between left and right. We want a little more maneuverable space to choose from. Of course, we also want to be able to choose a person, not just a client. The way to this is very simple. I think the law has already been tabled. Positive Slovenia has tabled a bill. It's a favoured vote and we absolutely support you If you support others, we will get exactly what Grimes is also advocating, the decisive impact of people on which candidate will be elected. [[..]] Constitutional concerns. I'm always sensitive to any legal concerns. I think we need to take a second look at what is being done in these laws to improve. I am convinced that interventions in passive electoral law are justified by public interest and are proportionate – that the weight of the intervention is proportionate to the right conferred by these laws. What is this public interest? Yeah, well, it's pretty simple. Look, our constitution says that Slovenia is a democratic state, a democratic republic. And this notion of democracy also subsists that we must do everything in our power to ensure that there will be as many people in politics as possible who will be trusted by the people. That is, if we determine that there must be no people in politics who have been convicted or who have been charged with a legal charge, this is part of this story. This is for the sake of democracy, it is in favour of raising people's confidence in politics. It's not a step enough to understand each other. We're not gonna solve any more problems with that, I say again. But we'll take one step in the direction we want to go. I suggest that we all think together about how to solve this problem, how to get these laws to an end, how to make them better and to improve them a little while longer, but not that we are already thinking at the beginning about why we should not, how we would not do something or what the reasons are against these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. I would now like to borrow the words of my forerunner, Mr Virant, who said, "Political hygiene and trust are crucial to this debate today in this National Assembly." I also very much agree with that. In my debate, I will limit myself to this mandate, in which several cases of political officials have been identified who, despite the pressure of the public, have not given up their positions, have not resigned from the post they hold. In many cases, we have only heard their views about the political motivation of law enforcement. The position of these individuals raises questions about citizens' confidence in the rule of law, as it gives such an impression that justice is biased, gives the impression that a different interpretation of the law applies to citizens or the use that what is considered a criminal offence and a basis for prosecution for ordinary citizens does not apply to privileged elites. And that's very worrying. I believe that, in order to change the political culture in the country, it must first be concluded that the proposed laws are an attempt to put this into practice. I believe that these laws need to be formalised, of course also to verify the constitutional provisions concerning the restriction of the constitutional rights of citizens, and I would like to quote in particular Article 3 of our Constitution, which provides in paragraph 2 that the authority of the people is in Slovenia. And, honourable Members and Members, the people in the streets have told us what they think of us, the people in the streets have demanded change. And that, Your Honor, I repeat, is their legitimate right. If I go back to the law itself, I would point out that in the next debate we also take into account the legal profession, the opinion of eminent lawyers in Slovenia, and that we include this in our debates and that we take the final text of the laws into account. The purpose of the examination and adoption of these laws is to improve the political culture and the rule of law in Slovenia, and I therefore believe that the legislative procedure of all the laws submitted must be continued and I hope that today we will vote that the laws are suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Franz Puksic, to prepare himself for the Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u34	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! Three points first. Political hygiene and trust, morality and ethics for the third time, my proposal to make us get out of this situation. Political hygiene and trust. That's what my former president of the National Assembly used to say. Was it political and hygienic that he also took money from Macedonia when he received money as a substitute for the minister? Whether he paid back because he felt so much political hygiene at some point or because he became president of one of the political parties who ran for the National Assembly. Because they got him with their hand in marmalade, he did. The last person to speak to those citizens and citizens who work, who have full confidence in any company, is someone who is not. That's one. Second. The proposals you make in these laws can, of course, be popular — but useless. We'd do a lot more damage. If the judiciary were to do their job now, of course there would be no such thing. Does my former president of the National Assembly even know that he was convicted in the first degree? If this law were in force, and apparently because of the second stage of this judgment, this judgment was annulled, I would not be able to run for the National Assembly. So obviously, on a specific occasion, it's not the right way. The laws you've drawn up have been made within the framework of people who are familiar with the law, who are doctors of law and so on. At least that's how they declare themselves. But the laws are so bad and you admit that they are even contrary to the Constitution. This is about as if those we know in something else say that Pythagorean's expression is not c2 = a2 + b2 or a square above the hypotenuse of a rectangle is the surface equivalent of the sum of the squares in both katetes, or in trigonometric form, cosine of the square alpha, plus sine of the square alpha is equal to 1, or Ohm's law and so on. If I were talking nonsense here, because it's my area, of course everyone would laugh. Therefore, the Slovenian public also laughs at such draft laws. But it's sad that you come with one of these at all. Or, otherwise, it is true, as has been said, that you have prepared laws within the framework of Mr Muscula. So it's not serious. Colleagues and colleagues, not all mayors in this country, we were also some others, and Members of criminals. If anyone has led the development of this country, he has been led and is still led by congregations. Mostly. If we had regions, we would be at a better level today. My proposal for what to do – together, not the Civil Code with Mr Muscula's laws, but together, Members and Members of this National Assembly, let us accept two key documents. It is one thing to adopt a law to seize property for all those, regardless of time and color, to understand each other, to all those who cannot prove the origin of the property and who have not paid taxes – in this country or in the European Union, and also to close down all those who have done so who cannot prove the origin of the property and all those who have made it possible for them to do so. Various bankers, and so on, who came up with loans without proper coverage, who committed a crime. That's the first thing. And the other thing. After this law has been passed, we are going to the elections. We're going to the early elections this June. That could be common. I am sure that there is probably no Member in this National Assembly against this. Let's go to the election. And when the elections happen, it's also operationalized. She's seriously operating. And the third time, that's moral ethics. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps this moral ethics is in some cases also at unreasonable high levels. For example, when I spoke to my fellow Members, one of my members told me that I did not know that a Minister of Transport in Japan was appointed this afternoon, a worse traffic accident occurred at night and resigned in the morning. The following example, the Minister of Transport in Hungary was sitting in a car, the driver hit a man, he was sitting with, clearly, and he gave up. I've already talked about cases where the prisoner escaped on his way to court, and three ministers have resigned. Or two months ago in Turkey, two ministers resign because of a traffic accident. These are moral-ethic properties. And unfortunately, dear colleagues and colleagues, we don't have that. How!? But if someone is proposing legislation, someone who doesn't even have political hygiene and no confidence that they could do it. He suggests to me that when I've never done anything like that to have double payments. And I would only return if I wanted to occupy some great throne. He met the highest in the country – he is president of the National Assembly. How much political hygiene, my dear former president of the National Assembly with the secretary-general had, when it was discovered, and then colleague Jakič almost went mad, and he was right, by the way, when it was found that some signatures had disappeared. Where is this solution today? Nobody's told me yet. So, where is he? Colleagues and colleagues, under the rug. Don't tell me you can't find one pair of leaves! Then how do we figure out anything else? Don't act innocent, but if we are, I won't say anything. Who can do all this? Honest people don't! You can't come with such laws. Take it all away because Mr. Muscula has splintered, with doctors right at the head, and prepare at least these two proposals, as I said, together let us prepare them, give them to the national assembly, go to the elections, and we will finally show citizens and citizens what they deserve. What's the blame for the 130, 140,000 unemployed? Because of this legislation, nothing will be better, only the circus will start and gather political points. To be against this legislation today, the National Gazette will come to a press conference: Do you know, we wanted everything good, look what they were like, they didn't want, they didn't want it." "Yeah, who didn't want to?" "Those who have long been MPs who have been mayors" So, my dears, do not work. [[...]] Let's sober up, we don't have any confidence in this country anymore, the level of trust has fallen below the minimum. People are demanding a new election. But, you know, not just new faces, because new faces don't help, people demand honest faces. And just that and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. It's mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u36	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! I agree with those who say that, instead of these laws, it would be far more productive to discuss laws that would deprive illegally acquired property. You know, we have a marriage, but it's ineffective, so it's right to think in the direction of how to make this marriage more effective. That I'm going to the things that are on the agenda today. However, I would point out that, already after the current legislation, a Member will terminate his mandate if he is sentenced to more than 6 months. Even in history, we have one such case. Lucky Friend quit his term because he was sentenced to more than six months in prison. Nevertheless, I believe that the basis must be a legal conviction. Everything that is before this, because you know what kind of thing it can be born into and into what kind of mutual accounting it can lead to. I'm gonna touch the law that talks about calling off the mayor. According to a proposal made by the National Gazette, the mayor could have called off the initiative if he had given 2% to the voters and then prescribed a number of signatures that were necessary, then a referendum would have been held, and if at the referendum people had said that they did not want this mayor anymore, they would have re-elections. 2% — this means 16 voters in some municipalities because they have set a limit of not less than 15, but in some congregations it means 16 voters. 16 voters in a municipality can quickly get that they are unhappy with a mayor. And now these 16 voters are proposing to collect signatures. The number of signatures varies according to the size of the municipality. And I don't have problems with that, for example, when it comes to writing that in the municipality, where there are 5,000 people, 30% of the voter turnout is required, in the municipality, where there are more than 20,000 people, 25% of the voter turnout is required, etc. More than the municipalities need to be gathered. It's a problematic threshold. Me and New Slovenia also estimate that 2% is definitely too low a threshold for initiating the procedure for recalling the mayor. Go look all over Slovenia and you will see that you have municipalities where the saints of the municipality and the mayor are fighting each other to death. The mayor can also get potential opponents very quickly, and without any major problems, 16 voters will gather and initiate this process, especially in smaller municipalities, when people know each other well, this issue will be very problematic. And since today is a general discussion and because we are talking about objectives and principles, I would like the applicants to raise this threshold to at least 10% by the second reading. This would primarily help to sharpen the entry conditions and that anyone who thinks of calling off the mayor must show some seriousness. 10% is already serious. If we don't put it at least around this level, then every mayor will be able to collect signatures for his withdrawal every day. When there is a referendum, it is also problematic for us not to set a quorum for the validity of this referendum. I will now make a concrete case. A mayor was elected to an election where the election was 60%. Under this law, the mayor may be dismissed at a referendum where election participation is only 10%. There may even be a case where the number of signatures required by the referendum will be greater than the number of self-participation in the referendum. These are possible scenarios that can occur. It is therefore important that we also set up a quorum in this regard and bind it that participation in the referendum for the discharge of the mayor should be approximately the same as participation in the elections which has chosen this mayor to have some proportionality here. This is the second correction we want to correct in New Slovenia. So the entry threshold raised and the other thing, set some quorum that is needed for the referendum to be valid for the discharge of the mayor. If I say only in principle about our local self-government and stability. Those who are slightly older, you know that by 1995, we had a special system where the president of the executive board had the same function as the mayor today, the congregation was the same as today's municipal council. If I were talking about today's names, I would say that before 1995, the mayor had elected the majority in the municipal council. Some have found this to be a problematic arrangement, although it is the same as the state-level regime. As the majority in this House elects the Prime Minister, most elected the mayor at local level. But the coalitions at local level were changing very quickly, people were dissatisfied and the mayors or then the presidents of the executive board were falling down, they were setting up and the system was not guaranteed stability. This was the reason for the reform of local self-government, and since 1995, in the 1994 elections, for the first time, mayors have been elected directly in the elections. But even after these elections the mayor was not united in the executive and legislative branch of power because you had the mayor and you still had the president of the municipal council. You'll remember that, too. Some have again found that this is a problem because the president of the municipal council did not want to cooperate with the mayor, and the meeting of the municipal council was held differently than the mayor wanted, and this matter has also improved. Today it is designed to be the mayor at the same time as the president of the municipal council, that is, the head of meetings of the municipal council, and the principal assumed institution of the executive branch in the congregation. We have concentrated a great deal of power and great powers in the mayor's office. And today there are certain shortcomings and anomalies of this system. I agree with those who claim that something has to be done if the mayor crowns it so that it can be resolved. For the time being, it is virtually impossible to resolve the current legislation. But because of some exceptional cases, we must not be pressured to make decisions that will make the system worse dramatically. If we had been building a system before the 1990s that would provide stability at the level of local self-government, we should not, in recent cases, achieve with swift decisions that we will make this system completely unstable, unpredictable and even count. If I finish. I think we can find some clever and sober opportunity to call off the mayor, but let this desire not lead us to open up a place for permanent and direct accounting at local level, so that any small group, 2% of the electorate beneficiaries, in the municipality can constantly account with the mayor and that a very small majority can also resolve this mayor. Let us set here some principles of proportionality and I hope that we will find this solution by the second reading. I will support this law, which speaks of the Mayor's recall, now in the first reading, give him the opportunity and the opportunity to move forward and find better solutions. Unlike those who sometimes reject all laws at first reading. I will allow him to continue this discussion at second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today it has been heard by a relatively diverse debate, which is understandable in its own way, as the matter ahead of us is also very diverse and multilayered. And I'd agree with a lot of things that have been said by now. Also with these substantive observations, which Mr Matthew Tonin mentioned at the end, concerning solutions in the field of local self-government. However, I would start by believing that, despite the different opinions that have been expressed today, the intention of the bill-maker is good and even fair. I wonder, however, if it is a good time to look at the date of the submission of proposals for laws; for a number of reasons. I am asking mainly because of the real urgency of the political moment. In fact, to decide on such important content in a situation where a new coalition arises is a very large supply for my terms and it is difficult to concentrate entirely on the otherwise extremely important content covered by the proposed laws. That is why I have also understood from the introductory positions of the Group of Members that, even in others, this is causing this, I will say, a certain confusion or at least raises the question of the correctness of the moment under question. However, there is no denying what has been said about intent. Indeed, the situation in our society is in such a way that it undoubtedly requires decisions, including those that are conditional on the proposed laws. Again, the second question is whether we are comparing the six proposals of the law, or whether the transparency that some of you have already discussed today has been put to a sufficient extent. In fact, without going into concreteness, I myself have noticed a number of possible contradictions and such issues that raise a lot of other content as a result. I think it would also suggest that we consider that certain common content or elements proposed in the provisions of the laws might also be combined in some common matter and might be easier to come up with some fairer and legally justified conclusions. I would also point out this: at this point, it would be very difficult to say that I clearly support all the proposals. At the same time, it is particularly because today it is stated that, at least for a step, confidence in politics, in public function holders, is being shifted, it is difficult to reject the proposed laws so that they do not continue or at least try to upgrade them and in a slightly more comprehensive context. We're really set up, at least I'm set up, in front of a big dilemma as to how to proceed at this point. I will probably make a different decision in different laws; otherwise I will not, but as far as support or quorum is concerned, and I am also deciding on the basis of discussions and some other arguments. Maybe I'd like to mention two more things. When I read the contents of six laws, I doubtless have the moment in my mind. One thing that Mr Tonin has mentioned in the end is whether decisions, for example when the mayor is called off, can be made to abuse if we do not come up with more substantive and legal-formal solutions than is currently proposed in the law or in the bill. But there are also many other dilemmas, such as how to prevent discrimination and abuse in such matters as we are witnessing to them today. Many of you today have pointed out that, while there are many specific, subjective problems in this society, there are also problems in this society, and there are legitimate public disagreements in this respect, but we cannot generalise the matter. Today, unfortunately, many things get generalized and are or are all thrown into the same basket. In these laws, which are proposed not to be too far away from content or matter itself, I do not see any mechanisms to prevent such abuses. However, I believe that if this first step is taken, it should be limited and the possibility of entering public functions is precisely defined, that it also begins to limit and upgrade the system of excluding possible abuses in this area, because otherwise we have only taken a unilateral step. Although I have a lot of time, but I don't want to be too long, I would like to point out once again that we can clearly assess this intention of the Civil List for a positive. I am sorry that at this point I do not see the will, probably because of the already mentioned "political moment", which would undoubtedly give support, especially because we are also talking about laws with two-thirds support, and we know that today is probably very difficult to expect to move forward in the light of the debates on the matter. Nevertheless, I appreciate this intention, and I hope that in the coming months the atmosphere and the political structure can also be formed when the content can be further addressed, even more specifically, as far as the laws themselves are concerned, even more transparently discussed. But I'll make up my mind, as I said before, because matter is also very heterogeneous in front of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar. Get ready, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Don't mind me when we think at this 12-hour debate on the subject of amending all six articles. It seems to me that it is regrettable to accept the fact that political parties, as well as individual public function holders, officials, cannot be self-critical and self-disciplined to such an extent that in this country they combine some normal level and standard of moral, ethical, political, cultural and all other virtues and values. It is likely that our country is one of the few countries that wants to legislate this self-discipline, put it on paper, put it into law when we already have so many laws that we will simply lose it, and that we will put it on paper, so that we will know exactly where our courses, our directions, our ways, our ways, how to behave. This is probably a phenomenon in the world, probably a phenomenon between developed countries. Where developed countries have high standards and standards, they also have moral self-confidence, those performing public functions to such an extent as to derogate themselves, not on the basis of laws, not on the basis of regulations, legal provisions, but on the basis of their own convictions. It is also likely that by changing all these six laws we will not be renaissanced into some political, moral, ethical hold on us, individuals and political parties. This is probably the task that would be necessary to discuss in individual political parties. Individual political parties have an impact on the starting point of entry when they designate candidates for elections. This is the entry point where all things could be cleared up to accuracy and then not transferred forward – not to the National Assembly, but there would be no witness to a bunch of anomalies and things that have simply reduced and diminished the reputation of political work and not least the reputation of the National Assembly. But if it is not different, then it is also necessary to discipline people in such a way that we show them and draw a line and make laws that they must follow. I fully agree that Slovenia, in such a small trust in the rule of law, in the legal system, has never achieved greater confidence in us, politicians and officials than it is now. I also fully agree with the proposaler that something needs to be done. Moreover, I acknowledge this tenderness, which the applicant has followed from those conventions, protests on the street to here. I'm not saying that you're the only party that you've been subtle about these events, that you've heard the voice of the people and you've heard their demands and their wishes. Other parties probably heard that, too, because you were the ones who immediately tabled proposals to amend the legislation. Of course, if it doesn't work out differently, then we'll have this renaissance, if we reach it in this, a slightly more repressive way, a little more forced way of doing it, and we'll somehow come and restore this whole trust of people in our legal system, the rule of law and the conduct and work of our officials. She had already discussed the technical matters of the proposed amendments to the six laws in the presentation of her colleague Kociper, so that she would not discuss them much. But I do know that there are many good things, from the entry point to the standard at the end of a function, and not least to the point where you stand up and we stand up for the mayor's resignation or the mayor's resignation. He talked about it a little bit more with his colleague Tonin. I also fully agree with the fact that the mayor is given great responsibility for the executive and legislative work of the authority and that the mayor has a lot of powers, but that if the mayor is elected by a qualified majority, then it would be appropriate that these criteria for calling back or requesting a referendum and his recall be at least approximately proportionally similar to those with which he was appointed or elected. So, after all, all I have said, and even if I say that I don't know when we spent 12 hours discussing the economy, economic growth, jobs and so on, but it's probably also necessary to talk about these things today, to see the possibility of changing all these laws, because unless we can self-discipline ourselves, we need to have some legislation and some legislation that we're going to incorporate and incorporate into these laws. I cannot agree with and expect – as the Secretary of State has pointed out some things, depths and discrimination between the proposed legislation and existing legislation, and, last but not least, criminal legislation, not least by the constitution, that this needs to be rectified. In case it doesn't get fixed, then we've made a bigger and different gap that's going to stare again when it comes to human rights violations, freedoms and the rest. I am confident that with some dialogue forward and constructive design, we will also bring these six laws into line, in such a form, in such a form, such a form that existing legislation will be sufficient and that they will also produce some result, which is what we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs Sonja Ramšak, prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u42	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word. Of course, the representatives of the government are not in the hall at the moment, but the greetings are also valid for them. I believe they're watching us through the screens. If I could start the debate, I would first point out that it would be very good to talk about political culture and hygiene, first of all, what I have pointed out several times in this Chamber would start with a culture of dialogue. At the outset, some editorials received quite a bit of verbal aggression. I think that this is also what affects the rise in political culture and the confidence of the electorates and voters in us, Members and Members. But if I touch on the very subject of today's public debates, all of these packages of laws, I would say so. Personally, I do not support, nor for further consideration, because I think we have gone on the wrong side. Last year and this year, we had a street. People invite us to listen to them, not just to listen to them, but to hear them. I must say that I listened to them in that part when they calmly gathered and expressed their protests about their desire for more direct democracy. When we talk today about elections, about officials and what conditions someone should meet, I think we should go first to the electoral system itself. Personally, as our representative Mr Grims has already said, I am leaning towards the majority system, but in fact we have a proportional system in our constitution, and it should be enforced that people could have a greater opportunity to directly elect an individual Member or Member of the National Assembly. When I look at the results of the early elections in the 2011 National Assembly, I note that it is those who have received the least votes or the confidence of voters and voters who are not themselves to blame, who are actually moralizing and exposing those things that should be solved elsewhere. What am I talking about? I'm talking about we have an electoral system where someone can run within the constituency and election circuits. But do people really have the chance to choose the one who trusts him the most? I don't think so, and there's that original sin. Someone who may have received nearly 6,000 votes comes to the National Assembly and someone who has not reached a thousand votes is immediately elected to the National Assembly. This is also the problem of elections and the electoral system, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. For the parliamentary group that has tabled these packages of proposed laws, I believe that it had a very good purpose and I also welcome this. However, I believe that, not in this Chamber, a public debate should be held, and that this debate should include both the laity and the professional public and, on the basis of this, it is not possible to reach that required majority, but not 20, 30, but an absolute majority, when everyone actually supports a system — including the recall or election of individual officials or the election itself on the ballots. Maybe there's a bigger problem here. I also see a problem in that, for example, when someone is appointed as a mandate-holder and is supposed to form a government, he is not independent because he cannot set up a team that he himself wants, that he knows he can work with, and that he can also achieve certain movements both in the economic, financial, social or any other area. However, if I turn directly to these laws, I can say that I cannot support them because I personally believe that I am not a constitutional lawyer, but that in several articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed solutions are in violation of the principle of alleged innocence and the principle of proportionality. I would also support those changes if they were to regulate the way in which officials are elected and recalled in a single marriage. This is a little more difficult than just partial solutions, and in the country we are under the mass of individual laws and regulations in fact when, in fact, those institutions that should monitor the system themselves are no longer able to perform their functions because of the flood of all these regulations. Today, we have six or more rules on the bench where we change a certain arrangement. However, when we talk about raising political culture and hygiene, I must also touch the President of the Civil Gazette himself, for whom we receive criticism and moralization every day for a year and a few days or months. But who gives this Member or Member of Parliament this right to moralize? Let me put it this way: let each one first sweep before his own doorstep. Perhaps Mr Virant is hiding behind something that has not yet been exposed today in the National Assembly – I will not be alone. But whoever wants to, here I also appeal to research journalism that a number of things, which would also, according to these principles, cancel or recall such a Member, may have happened some years ago at the municipal or local council of the Municipality of Domžale, but I believe that Mr Virant knows what I mean. What has already been exposed to being compensated for time after the end of office is also doing some extra work and therefore grossly earns, and does not pay back the full amount that he has received as an official as a substitute for me, is also a matter of political culture and hygiene. It is also a matter of political culture and hygiene that apparently in the National Assembly there is no desire to listen to people. In fact, if there has been a collapse of the current coalition on the basis of an opinion of the body that it can – of course, I agree that the Commission must be in order to prevent corruption, but that the opinion where the person who is exposed as a negative person is not in a position to appeal is once again a violation of the constitutional principle that everyone has the right to complain and that it can then be politically and personally disqualified, it is not a political culture, hygiene for me. Above all, I think this is about destroying the rule of law and a fair state. We should talk about these things before dealing with individual problems in a partial way, but not first looking at what is the biggest problem, which is that today the just and the rule of law does not work. Even when we are talking about recalling or punishing, or the conditions that a person may meet, I wonder whether we may not return to a time when only someone in the hairdresser, in the inn or elsewhere will pass a valuable judgment on someone and a criminal charge will be filed and an active and passive electoral right will be violated or even revoked. Just as our judicial system works, when some trials drag on for 10, 15 or even more years and it is a violation of the principle that a fair and reasonable trial must be ensured, I cannot agree with the solutions proposed. We also cannot agree with the solutions proposed, because I have nowhere to see a provision that the court should – I think that was spoken of by Member Kociper – in the case of such a person, or a Member, or a candidate for individual functions, or other officials, the court should address these cases as a matter of priority. If you remember the 10 plus 100 programme advocated by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the 2011 early elections, which is often referred to in a negative sense, I would say: first-degree procedures should not last more than three months, not just for us, officials, but for all citizens and citizens; secondly not more than three months, and if we add this together, it is six months. Six months may be the reasonable period when the proceedings in the courts or in the pre-trial proceedings should be concluded. Today, however, we have many mounted political processes where someone is accused because, on an indefinite day, there is an indeterminate way of communicating that they have accepted a bribe. That's unacceptable to me! This way all municipal councillors, state councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens can be dealt with. For me, this is where the just and legal state canceled. I therefore join the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. I believe that it is necessary to raise the level of political culture in order to allow those who have not been convicted of crimes to sit in these benches. Here we stick to the Constitution and this framework, which is also the greatest moral postulate for me, or the one in which I trust, this is the Constitution. Of course, those laws that are unconstitutional also need to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, prepare for Mr Branko Kurnjek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a lovely greeting! I don't like playing lawyer, but now I will. Respectfully, how is it possible that this is a sign of political culture that when someone is with you, an angel with golden wings, when he is no longer with you, becomes a living devil with four horns and a tail? Where's the political culture here? Has man changed or something else changed? That's why we have a problem in this country. This problem is that we have a low level of political culture. If we are well - intentioned, we can even say that we have too little historical experience and will be better within a few decades. We don't know exactly what ethics are in politics. We would like ethics in politics, understanding what political culture, political officials and political parties have won overnight. If that were to happen, then we probably wouldn't have a problem dealing with laws that to some extent are untypical to some old, developed, well-functioning democracies. But the fact is, we have problems. Then what do you do? I must personally say that I understand the package of laws tabled by the party of Gregor Virant or the National Gazette. I am not a lawyer, I am not a constitutional lawyer, so I cannot assess whether everything is in line with other legislation and whether it is in line with the constitutional order of this country. But we'll probably find out and make improvements in the future. But I find it personally unacceptable, believe me, that the criteria for state officials in this country are much stricter than for key policies. It just can't be that simple. This is, in my personal opinion, a flaw in the system, and I think it's time to sort it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Mr Židan, I deeply respect you as a fellow Member of Parliament and also as former Minister. When you concluded that I marked someone as the devil – no, it's not true. But I would say this: if you don't fit in with a coalition, then at least be principled, because the reasons that led Mr Virant and the National List to get out of this coalition were essentially moralization, and on the other hand, a coalition, where we also have one person – I will not talk about names because it is not my intention to discredit. I'd say that if we'd come this far, then early elections wouldn't be a problem for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Branko Kurnjek, to prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members! Yesterday we witnessed a very emotional talk about why we're sitting here. In addition, words were used not to sit here to listen, but to hear, above all, what people want to say. A few meters from here, outside the temple of democracy, up to 20,000 heads of people gather and yearn to hear them at least! And when they heard that they wanted to tell us something, they would later listen to what they wanted to tell us. And what are they trying to tell us? They want to tell us that, as is the case in this country, it is no longer possible to lose confidence in the country, in the rule of law, in the trust of officials, in those people they represent; and we represent them. If we hear them, we'll try to understand that because by natural law, for example, officials don't want to, they don't want to, they can't leave their jobs, the written law has to be written. The proposals for amendments to the law given in the Civil Code go this way. If we would like to hear from our representative, Mr Branisl, in this Chamber today, who has made it very clear that any amendments to these proposals are possible, if anything is contrary to the Constitution or other laws - of course we are prepared to do so. However, if you will hear what Mr Braniselj has said and try to hear what people want to say, you will be with us, I hope that you will support our proposals for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the word to prepare Dr. Ljubica Jelusič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I will not support the proposals of the laws that we are considering under this point. There are several reasons for this. I'll list some of them below. The former President of the National Assembly and today's president of the National Gazette spoke of confidence and therefore brought a package of laws. Unfortunately, I cannot trust him because of the many things he has done in the past and in my opinion also many citizens and citizens. Today, it has already been mentioned that at the time of the end of the ministerial mandate, he received compensation and served contractually very well. We know that all those citizens who are unemployed today receive compensation at the employment agency under very strict conditions. If we were to do anything, we would be in favour of this compensation, which in this case has not happened, regardless of whether it is legally possible, if we are moralizing and talking about it here, about ethics and morals, and I do not know what it is all about, it is first of all that needs to be done with us. The second thing I can't trust him for is that he received the Commission's report on anti-corruption one day earlier, and he didn't define himself or herself as wrong by the Commission to prevent corruption, because he was also one of the debtors who reviewed him. What is worse for me is that there is nothing in the report about this fee and compensation and the contractual work of Mr Virant. Nor did the anti-corruption commission notice trips to Macedonia, how it paid them, etc., as noted by some other debtors. Mr Virant could draw the Commission's attention if he was so principled, just, etc. And if the commission had noticed that and counted the compensation, plus the contract work and deducted the travel costs, there might have been some differences that had been found with some other debtors. We know that the accused are already in effect — remember the Friend’s Happiness — but if we extend this to a legal indictment, it would be a real step for me to take the case if, in court or anywhere, one of the officials is to be considered as a matter of priority and that they have some time to make a decision in a month or at most two. Otherwise, we are witnessing some stories that last four years or more. Mr. Virant said they were deep and I don't know what. If it is that deep, we would have been condemned a long time ago, not to follow the debates week after week as the yoke of the snake and the epilogue anywhere. Not only does it happen every Monday, but once every two months, as in other cases, we would probably wait 50 years to come to a conclusion. I also have trust issues regarding the Council of State. The former President of the National Assembly and the President of the National Gazette, Mr Virant, was the biggest advocate for the abolition of the State Council. Today we have a law proposing to amend the Law on the State Council. Ever since this happened, I don't know what, in short, the idea that the State Council is all right now if we have it, while he's been defending it all along. I would have anticipated proposing such a proposal, not amending the law. Yesterday we had on the agenda the Law on the State Council because we know that the State Council paid EUR 655 000 747 meetings without foundation, as the Court of Auditors found that the saints paid their meetings without foundation for the whole decade, under the Law on the State Council and the reimbursement of their expenses, they were reimbursed for their lost earnings due to additional work. This means that if saints were public servants, such as employees of RTV and elsewhere, they would have to pay back illegally obtained money — similar amounts were paid to them. And how did Mr Virant vote on this bill yesterday on the fact that state councillors will have a meeting? The members of the Civil Code voted against, and Mr Virant abstained in the vote. That's why it's hard for me to trust him because I don't know what he thinks about the State Council, whether he thinks or doesn't think at all; that we still need him or that we don't need him short, that's where trust begins, and once again the principle that I won't say anything else. [[...]] We can probably also talk about trust in these days when we talk about whether the candidate candidate for Prime Minister Mrs Bratušek has prescribed a master's assignment. The FDV does not want to initiate the procedure or it will when it seems to them. Some have already found, as well as themselves, if you have read something from online publications, you can probably find out for yourself that it is a plagiarism, that it did not indicate resources, that even if it was involved in government materials, it should still be written. Here again on trust, about the principle of Mr Virant, who asked Mr Ambrožič to do something, does not require anything here. But he's obviously putting it in a matter that he calls her trust. Apparently, he trusts so much. In your explanation of virtually all laws, you wrote that people have problems or they estimate that we have two legal states: one for officials, one for everyone else, because some procedures do not happen, they do not end. Not only is this an impression, but things are actually happening, so, as I mentioned, we should write in the law if we are already doing this, and if we already have an honest intention to clear up the policy of problematic politicians, I will say that it is recorded that such matters must be dealt with as a matter of priority and that within one month to say anything: either an exemption or an indictment or a judgment on this subject. In addition, in virtually every law in the transitional and final provisions, you provide for members of the Council of State who do not comply with the conditions laid down in this law on the day of its entry into force — that is, the Law on the State Council. The same is true of elections to the National Assembly and so on. They warn — those concerned — including the saints, the mayors, that this should also apply back because as soon as the marriage is in effect, all of them should resign. At the very least, given that you've obviously done a lot of checking, so comparisons with other countries and the like, you should probably also assess the situation as it is in the country, probably where you write down the consequences of the adoption of the law, where we are talking about financial consequences, and then we are also talking about "other consequences that the adoption of the law will have". I think we should write here that, given the new conditions that you are applying, this would mean that 250 councillors in local communities, 18 mayors, 30 Members who are in some proceedings, because I think all these laws would have a very serious impact. Under point 5, the other consequences of the adoption of the law shall be recorded that the adoption of the law will have no other consequences. Of course it's not true! He'll have consequences! All of them will have consequences in order, and it would therefore be correct to write it. On this basis, it would probably be easier to make decisions, because this also means so many repetitions of elections in local communities and so on. That is why, as we say, too many things remain open, and that is why I will not support this package of laws. I think things need to be taken a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much. As a proponent, Mr. Braniselle? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I'm back on the phone as a proposalr, because I think there's been quite a bit of a dilemma. The first-signed candidate is Richard Braniselj and not Gregor Virant. As far as the obvious is concerned, this novelty set is supposed to be produced in some of the intellectual workshops of Zares. Maybe they can interpret it that way. Whoever goes to see the intellectual product of Zaresa and the product of the Civil Gazette will see great differences; great differences in content and also in the nomotechnics themselves, with more of these laws. So some parallels are sought unwarrantedly. And one thing, perhaps, is that we have heard what this is about to do in this country in order to restore some confidence, namely trust that we will raise the level of political culture. We are all talking about this today and we are united, with one difference: we say that it is necessary to do so, but you, who do not recognise these matters, say somehow: we can do so, but not now; not because it is unconstitutional; not because something is going to happen to us; not because a colleague of Virant received some compensation, and that is also why we would not, and we have heard about why we would not support it: because you do not trust the applicants. That's the least of my reasons. What, though, should the proposer be trusted with? What's the background here? I don't see him. What's the background for all this? Articles are very few — three, four, five. We're covering the entire spectrum. As far as the State Council is concerned — yes, of course, we are in favour of an end, and we have done everything we can to end it. Unfortunately, it has not been overturned, but the rules of the game must be the same for all, we now have the State Council and for them these same standards must be implemented. As far as the charges are concerned. Yes, it can be a subject of discussion and this criterion can, if this is the price for moving this matter forward, also be withdrawn and left only to legal judgments. Yes, you can. We are prepared to accept this compromise if it is a price to go forward. One more thing. If this matter falls on those laws that need a two-thirds majority, then I'll tell you right now, we'll withdraw the whole set of laws. If we are unable to implement this level of political culture or these criteria in this house, then we have no moral right to regulate them outside this house. And I think [[...]] A colleague of Jeraeva's reported that there is no indication of how many officials will resign or terminate their mandate if this package is implemented. People of God, it's personal information! Will we now go to the parliamentary group to look for information on who has a judicial decision in the municipal councils, the government, the president of the country? I think it's inappropriate for us to talk about this at all. We can't do that, and that's illegal because it's personal data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dr. Ljubica Jelusič has the floor, Mr. Jakob Presecnik is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We are considering a package of laws which the proposer says are intended to legally define standards for entry into politics and exit. Several debaters also say that these laws are intended to raise the level of political culture. In order to address this need for legally defined standards of entry and exit from policy, I would like to draw attention to another law concerning all holders of public functions, namely the Secret Data Act. This is about how to check or how to determine who has the right to access or to look into the secret data of different species, starting with the "internal" level. And Article 3 of this Act, which was created in 2001, states who is all exempt from security checks. The President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Members, Councillors of State, Mayors and Municipal Advisers, then Ministers, Chiefs of Government Services, Ombudsman, Governor, Member of the Court of Auditors, Judges, Prosecutors-General, Advocates-General, Information Commissioners and many others are listed. If this Article 3 of the Secret Data Act were to be amended so that no one could be excluded from the security check, a large part of the problems we are dealing with today would be solved. Because security checks are carried out to determine who has been ordered or convicted by law. In 2001, there was an exclusion of a whole range of people from security checks, probably due to the assumption that people who do not have such charges on their backs were entering politics. First of all, it was supposed to be a high level of political hygiene at the time, if I use that term that some of you used today. Unfortunately, it turned out after this year when the ZTP was adopted that these political hygiene in a very large number of people who are entering politics today does not yet appear. I would also point out that – of course, if what you said is not true, my colleague Braniselj, so that we can step down from the line which speaks of the accused being legally accused, that there are legal charges and legal indictments. One and the other differs considerably with regard to legal power, so it would be good to be precise when writing this indent, especially because this thing concerns someone who is currently in politics. If we are talking about raising the level of political culture by means of these laws, I would like to point out that this is essentially a very small part of political culture, because legal standards are only one of the components of political culture, change or improve, we need to raise the way we behave, our motives for action in politics, our ethics, our behavioural style and more. Some of you have also mentioned that the public or people on the street are demanding a different attitude from us. I must say that these bills only partially touch on their demands, i.e. the so-called street or protestors require those who are burdened by the Commission's findings on preventing corruption to withdraw from politics. These findings do not fall within the jurisdiction of the accused and convicted persons. People also demand that policy be withdrawn from people who do not respect professional standards, such as citing, quoting, writing various diplomas, masters, doctoral works, etc. We will not be able to get hold of these same laws, so people, protestors will still be very dissatisfied, they will be black and we may eventually adopt these six laws. What I miss about these six laws, some have actually tried to think in this direction today in the debate – I think it was colleague Horvat when he spoke about creating records and similar things, and you, colleague Braniselj, have warned about this – so how can we quickly figure out who is disputed and who is not disputed. In fact, I suppose that if we want to make this article operational in all six laws, we should also make it very clear who is the one who will require the verification of conviction or siege, who is at the municipal level and who is at the state level. Are these political parties, these are leaves, movements? Who, in fact, is the legal person who has the right to request the courts or other authorities to provide him with such information? Is this as we foresee in the Social Democrats that each individual must bring to the party personal data protected as personal data? To conclude, I would say that today we are talking about six laws and an integral part of this ethics debate about six laws should also be that we are talking about the laws and not the people they have proposed. I find it inappropriate or unusual to disqualify people who have made laws, whoever they are. Last but not least, if laws are adopted, this purgatory will be required for all and anyone who is disputed under these laws could be excluded from politics. Therefore, we do not need to deal with them now, with individuals. If we have no argument to discuss the laws, then we leave the people who wrote or prepared them alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Get ready, mag. Ivan Vogrin, Mr Jóžef Kavtičnik is behind him instead of Mr Čehovin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that there are problems and that there is something that must be done, and especially that is what people expect of us; they expect us to act differently in the first place during the period when we run for individual functions rather than in the performance of individual functions. I agree with Dr Gönzem when he said earlier that although it is absolutely wrong to deal with these points because of the political situation at this point in the creation of a new coalition, when we do not know which coalition or who currently belongs to what coalition. This is also why we have a huge deal today, with some bright exceptions, such as my predecessor, in particular mutual accounting, rather than constructively discussing the burning problem. We have also adopted years ago, and again it does not exactly fall under these laws, one law on the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions. The problem has proved to be exactly the same: in practice, there has been a problem with the compatibility of the parliamentary and secular functions. But we are not dealing with this in this part either, and this matter must certainly be resolved in the future. Of course, I would also expect you to mention it, so it was shown to the public who are actually the authors of these proposals. Mr Bevk discussed this earlier, so that if these proposals were prepared in the Really Party, it would be correct for the proposers to mention this in their report. I didn't hear that. But if you've mentioned it anywhere, I apologize. I also do not understand the representative of the Government or the Government, a respected secretary of state, but this is not her problem, the problem of the Government, why it is already firmly rejecting support for the proposed laws. I think that in order to further discuss all these proposals, it is possible to withstand the right solutions, at least in some areas. My clear view is that if, above all, we, by examples and not least by written rules, including ethical codes – and once again, I stress that, with our own example in particular, we will achieve greater trust in officials at all levels among people, there will also be more opportunities for, above all, carefully prepared measures to ensure a more successful and just society to be taken with understanding. That's the only way to ensure success. It is simply a matter of trusting people in the institutions of the country, and first of all it is necessary to trust individual institutions of the country, and then it is possible to have confidence in institutions. I believe that many of the solutions in these bills are questionable from a legal point of view, but if we adopt them at first reading to confirm them at first reading, all these dilemmas can also be clarified in the next stages of consideration. One of the problems has been mentioned and I agree with it that there will be an immediate problem if certain laws are adopted that require a smaller quorum, because there is a great danger that those who need 2/3 of the majority at the time of adoption will not be adopted. This will immediately create a major problem. At the end of this, let me say once again that I am sure that we will achieve the most, if, in particular, the candidate procedure, we will pay the utmost attention – in the case of elections to the National Assembly, of course, this procedure must be given the highest attention to individual political parties – and, of course, if we follow written or unwritten ethical rules and moral, human values after our election. Surely that is what people expect of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin. I see he's not here. Mr Jožef Kavtičnik has the floor to prepare Mr Mirko Brulc instead of Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! There have been many good ideas heard today from more and even less experienced politicians, from people, from colleagues and colleagues who have heard the presentation today, some have understood and some have not understood. Therefore, I am sure that we hear very well in this room, only many times individuals do not want to understand it. In the National Assembly, I see people who want to do something they hear, and then I see people who see obstacles in every thing, why they don't do something. And that's not good. The six laws before us today merely follow the logical consequences of gathering and calling the crowds who have warned that they do not agree with the way politics works in our country. It is therefore necessary to take a step forward in this direction; and this is good. It is good that we have followed or that the proponents have followed. It is also good that they want to do something legally that would raise people's trust in this country and raise some political cultural level. However, I am sure that the very laws of political culture cannot raise us. We can limit the number of crimes by law, but we cannot raise political culture or culture at all. If I look back a little bit and look back from the historical memory, I can find out whether we are running our country for 21 years, and before that we have received the dictatorships of others, so we cannot talk about some long-standing democratic system that is present in us and in us. We all went through a period of time, both in schools and in the system and so on, giving us some sort of authoritative way of managing. This is also true in our families, and that is why we will only be able to follow education by resisting or resisting this way and that people will start taking responsibility without fear. This is important. You know, if a man is always afraid of what's going to happen, then he's fighting back and defending his responsibilities. It's bad for self-image, it's bad for self-esteem, and it's bad for self-esteem. Without this, it will be very difficult for people to wait for them to go to the elections responsibly and to elect those people — and also to demand them to fulfill what they have promised — that is, to elect those who will then be able to trust them. That's the problem. I will support these laws, at least this proposal, in the first reading, which is good, which we have consistently pointed out is the right way to work in our national assembly, to go through some general debate, so that everyone can make their comments, that these comments and these opinions can – and then also – be implemented into the law and then, in the second reading, see what the law is: whether it is a water drinker who likes most and satisfies the subject of what the law has become. The second step is the decentralisation and de-de-barcation of our system, because we, with these laws and all these measures, prohibitions and so on, have rejected creativity in humans and have brought individuals back into the situation when they leave and say that others should decide for us. No! No! People have all the right and responsibility to decide their destiny, so they choose and have to elect such people who trust them, who are proven honest, hardworking and who have already done something in their lives. The third step is, as I have already said, that we must invest much more in education, in the education of people and give them the opportunity and opportunity to raise their confidence, their self-image and, as such, they will be able to make decisions. As I have already said, I will support this law, and I also support those warnings that point to the possibility of unconstitutionality and to all that the Government has already warned about; but I do not like that the Government has already said in this consideration that it does not support laws. I would also like to point out that in criminal proceedings which may result in the termination of the term of office, the authorities must take this opportunity to make a special decision quickly and to reach an appropriate early conclusion. Why? Because, otherwise, individual political opponents could press criminal charges in order to eliminate their anti-candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Mirko Brulc. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you. Then you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u61	Get ready, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u62	Your Honor! Members of Parliament are daily bombed that we are incompetent, corrupt, without any knowledge that it is only for our chairs, that we have a kind of privilege. I'm asking what privilege I have, except for my parking card. If we are all incapable of having any knowledge – only how many former mayors are sitting in this Parliament, who have run such and different congregations successfully and so on. That's what the protestors tell us, that's what they tell us in the public stands, that's what the columnists tell us, that's what the former Zeres quasi politicians are explaining, and so on, and so on, that's what they've done after the elections. I can't agree with all of this. I am sorry to hear the name of Gregor Virant too many times today to go to some personal insults and reckonings, because then we can throw ourselves at Janša, Jankovic and so on and we threw 12 hours into the air. The package of legislation is very attractive, that is for sure. All those who question the content, the preparation, and so on will immediately be on the street and all those whom I have previously counted will begin by protecting someone, having something behind them, having no clean conscience and so on – and the circle begins to spin. That's why I don't think it's the right way. We should first sit, not at a meeting of the National Assembly, but at some round table, also invite those masters who are on the streets and columnists and so on, and explain to ourselves where the problems are; not at the expense of this meeting of the National Assembly when we are discussing something – unfortunately doubtful – but at the same time we are going to the French economy, we do not know where to collect taxes, we do not know how to prevent the grey economy from filling the budget to obtain funds in the budget for new jobs and so on. So, first of all, we should have a public debate, then from this slowly section, which I don't feel here, draw up some pieces of legislation and then discuss it here in Parliament. You know, it's very easy to say calling off the mayor. I'm very responsible to tell you that if I go after a good mayor, and we're going to be from the party, and I'm going to gather the other clients who are against the existing mayor – we're going to collect signatures! For he resented someone, because he had not tarnished his sidewalk, because he was making too much contribution to the unwalled building land, and so on. We collect and carry it, no problem! Even the good mayor! You know what our problem is? Because we have mayors who are judged by voters to be weak, and then they set up a new municipality because they are not satisfied with the mayor, and we have 210 municipalities – this is business for the country! So, we're always going to this process somewhere in the back. I know the mayor, I will not name him, a small congregation – he gives a speech at every funeral of his citizen. He said he didn't need a campaign. Normal! It is a family that is in trouble, of the dead all good, relatives — you have so many voices that you are easily chosen! And he doesn't care about the development of the congregation and so on because it's in a small congregation and this package is fura. I am very responsible to you. There's a huge difference between us, and I think there's a difference in the National Assembly. The truth is in us: those who run, those who are elected, we are politicians. A raise of standard – we can lift it, not someone for us or legislation for us. We! If in one of the parties in the previous term, someone sat and all the media, justice and everyone said that he made a mistake and ran again in the same party and was re-elected and only took the bag for a long time and went home – who is to blame? It's the party's fault! It was the client's fault for knowing she was protecting him and keeping him alive! I'm not about to lynch him, but he needs to say in a nice circle, "Friend, sir, take the bag, give us peace, be honest, do it." Go do private work, whatever it is, and leave the client alone." That is what we must do, so we have the Social Democrats in the statute clearly stated who can run. And we may still have an accident, but luckily not yet. You know, it happens. I don't blame anyone for hating him or anything: you made a mistake, as they say, mea culpa, give peace and withdraw. People don't have that power. That's bad. Previously, the introduction was about criminals and so on. Those are hard words, I hope there's no criminal here between us. God forbid he was! I would also like to mention the importance of the profession. What is extremely important is what we write in the legislation, since each article can then turn around and be abused in one way or another. You know how many times someone gets upset about politics, blackens it, spits it out — uglyly. You don't wash anymore! Because people say, if that's where the smoke is, it's a fire and we're bringing the plate again. Therefore, it is important to be careful about what we write down in the legislation, so the profession must be present here as much as possible. I would also suggest that somewhere today we say that even those who cause this loop in the streets will also be subject to this ethical and all these other standards. As among us, we are not all corrupt, all stupid, all depraved – I hope no one is like that – even among them are not all gold, all honest, all the best, extraordinary intellectuals and so on. Let's split it up! Even among them, someone will be able to sneak into a new - growing client who has some butter in the back. Then what? So life is not black and white, we need to know that. Therefore, the preparation of such legislation is of paramount importance. On the other hand, one would say we don't have to. Where does it say? What document, in the constitution? And there could be a lump and it could be incompetent? It doesn't say anywhere! It says everywhere what it should be to make it work normally, and if I respect the Constitution and the laws, then I do not need any additional laws in this House. I need you to tell me that when I go to the store, I can't steal. I don't have to write that! I know I can't. And I can't – my friend Krivec is sitting on a visa with me, we've been together, I don't have to write that I shouldn't insult him. I don't have to write that! Maybe someone needs it. Let's be smart! I am sorry that we will spend 12 hours today in this debate at a meeting of the National Assembly, instead of discussing how to collect taxes, how those who carry millions of dollars to some warm islands will return this money to the country, how to prevent the grey economy from filling the budget to get new jobs. That's what people expect! You know, God forbid anyone who's unemployed today is sitting at home on TV because they don't have the money to go to the coffee shop, and they think we're gonna be doing this all day, and he doesn't have a job. But we are not trying, really not trying to get new jobs, to open up investments. We'd like to discuss big investments, I don't know, the track, Luke and so on. What's the problem? Why is there no building permit? If we were talking about this, I'd like to. It's not like we're grinding straw and grinding it for nine more hours. It's a waste of time! If we'd started different than I said, on our own time. Yesterday we discussed the craftsmen's law. The Committee on the Economy organised a public tribunal and there were no Members. I am sure that if we had a public tribunal, there would be five, six Members, and the rest — we do not have time. At that time we should be here and with those who disagree with our views, who literally insult us and so on, face this space and say that now they should say: you are all bad. Tell me about Mirk Brulco, Lucky Meha, Sweetheart Jelusich, what are they bad at? Not to mention your names, because we're all the same here. Let them say each and every one of you, but not all of you are bastards. I don't accept that! I'm sorry I went a little off the track. I'd like to say one last thing. Let's stop arguing with each other, at least in these cases. We are adopting proposals for some laws that are obviously necessary and will need to be thoroughly prepared. But like I said, now they're not important names. This belongs to another debate or pre-election campaign, and say there's this bum, that he did it and that. Now, dear voters, if you choose him, don't shout in the streets that they're all the same! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Simčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dr. Virant decided to raise the level of political culture by introducing a package of seven laws. Is it actually possible to do this with legislation? Probably not. But it is undoubtedly an extremely popular package for the public, which, for the first time, is unconstitutional to cities, as my predecessors have already said, and, of course, we would expect the doctor to understand. However, it has been submitted by a party which is precisely in the field of political hygiene, although I do not really like this verbal relationship, to which the question of principle, consistency and trust referred earlier by Dr Virant has been repeatedly questioned. When you decide to enter politics, it's a function where you regulate people's lives in some way, when you adopt legislation, when you decide on the quality of life of individuals, then you have to have pure purposes at first, you have to be principled, and you have to be honest. Who, though, can judge and judge? Is it anyone who can give valuable judgment on this? Culture, ethics or ethics and political hygiene – I use the concept that Dr. Gregor Virant likes to use – do not start with legislation, but with each individual. Who is the one who can take the right to judge and judge that someone is amoral, unethical, or anything else? Maybe Dr. Gregor Virant? Is he the kind of moral authority that can judge that? Do not judge that you will not be judged, the Bible says. And: Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's coverings. You probably don't have to analyze this sentence, I'm sure we all understand it. Mr Virant, who today submitted a package of 7 laws to the National Assembly, served in honor or in projects in Macedonia in addition to receiving compensation when he was no longer Minister. This Dr. Virant then, I think he's got about an additional 100,000 euros. Was that ethical at the time, or was it ethically controversial? He'll probably be able to answer that question himself. If you decide to judge and judge others, then you have to be morally and ethically clean yourself, and your first example and example, even if you have one year of second highest office in this country, this is the President of the National Assembly. We are talking about principled, ethical, trustworthy and fair actions in politics and politicians themselves. Usually in my discussions, I do not discuss "ad personam", it is said, personally, on a person, but in the case of Dr Virant, I have to do so, because he himself has put himself at the head of the moral judge on everything and everyone, even on each of us in the National Assembly, but at the same time he has repeatedly acted at least inadvertently. Even in the last case, when he did not call for a resignation, for example, Mrs Bratusek, who is charged with believing that she has completed a master's degree or that in some parts she is a master's degree plagiarism. I'm not going to judge, judge and judge this, because it's not my duty, but I can point out that. It's the institutions that are going to investigate whether or not it's really on it. But I just want to point out the duality of some individuals who are shaping political life when, in one case, they act in a way that when a suspicion of plagiarism is triggered, for example, your Member, Mr Ambrožić, then the President of the National Gazette immediately goes to a press conference and requires his resignation, in which case he does not. That's all I'm talking about, but I'm not questioning whether Mrs Bratusek's master's job is really plagiarism. That's why I'm also saying that you can't make highly ethical and principled people with laws. You can't! Also, my colleague Brulc – here I agree with him, with his entire discussion, perhaps we will be in coalition sometime. [[...]] [[Laugh]] I must say that you are right: legislation is not the one that will solve these problems. It's not the law, but all of us, everyone can do it by themselves to be consistent in their actions. Thus, we ourselves are called to make this level of ethical culture higher. Not through the law. Law enforcement won't solve anything. Nothing! And this is my debate. And moralizing matters won't change anything either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Simčič. Behind him is Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, respectable citizens and citizens! We have five laws before us, some of which are called the political hygiene minimum, or simply Mr. Musculo. I wouldn't have called it that in person. I would put it a little differently, because it ultimately applies to us all being together right now, nicely put, in totally impossible kitchen spaces, and certainly somewhere near the drains and washbasins. In short, it is a proposal of six laws, the intention of which is to tighten the conditions; firstly, both for running for office, i.e. before the possibility of taking office as a function itself, with the aim of strengthening the integrity of the public sector; and secondly, establishing comparable conditions between public servants and officials. It is true that Slovenia is a country that ensures high standards of protection of human rights and freedoms, and this is, last but not least, reflected in the conditions of employment of public servants. It is virtually impossible to get a job in any part of the public sector without a certificate of impunity or unchallenged criminal proceedings against a person. Some of the public servants are subject to even higher standards, and it is true that a convict who ends up in prison can run for office. Is that fair, moral, and ethical? I'm adamant, it's not! In this respect, the conditions for entry and retention in the functionalities are proposed entirely on the spot. Also in terms of strengthening integrity, not only in the public sector, but as a result also in the private sector, proposals are more than acceptable. It is worrying and sad that what a degree of confidence the public enjoys is a policy which, especially in these times, is intended to overcome any division and work on the side of any instigation and the throwing of pollen under the feet and is fully devoted to merely and only to mitigating the consequences, but to eliminating the consequences of the crisis, which still holds us as a tick. Finally, the street itself invites us to do so. However, if I return to the legalisation of ethical norms and mutual cooperation, people today have no confidence in the rule of law or are at an extremely low level. In the picture they have before them at this point in the social crisis, they are even more intensively leading to corruption, fraud, immorality, unethicalism at all levels of the country's operation. I ask you: What about if people didn't have this idea, do we do it ourselves? Nothing! With our unfounded and unfounded criticisms, we are still setting this on fire. Let me just describe my case briefly. Almost a year has passed since the so-called affair began in the media, Mr Ivan Simčič, a member of Parliament, an embezzled certificate. It was not just a one - day fly, but a months of persecution, without people being left to decide for themselves what is at stake on the basis of facts and evidence. People have been forced to think or judge me. In one month more than 400 members were published, and on the finger of one hand they would count those who have dealt with the matter at least a little critically, objectively and impartially. The fact is that in 2003 the Human Resources Service of the Ministry of Defence addressed to me a written request for verification of the circumstances of my secondary school certificate. That same year, the ODS invited me to an interview where I fully explained the circumstances with regard to the certificate. On the basis of the collected data, notifications and examinations of the dossier, the ODS then recorded the following. I quote: "... that there are no signs of a crime and that Simčič Ivan's certificate of fifth-degree education is valid and obtained in a lawful manner." This fact has been deliberately or unintentionally forgotten by the media. In 2007, I was again invited to interview on the certificate. Although the ODS had made its findings years earlier, it left the State Prosecutor's Office to its judgement and decision. The MOR informed, it is said, of the report on the alleged existence of a suspected criminal offence of embezzlement of documents and false representation. The D.A.'s response is already well known. Although I only obtained this document a month ago, while the media operated on it a year ago. And the D.A. dropped the charges. I have not been charged with any offence, nor has I been convicted of any offence, nor has the Ministry of Defence brought any proceedings against me within the time limit set by the State Prosecutor's Office. This is supposed to be the end of the story. It should be – at least respecting the fundamental principle of criminal law that everyone is considered innocent until he is found guilty. And who decides who's to blame? I still think that only the courts and the courts are called upon to do so, not the media and self-declared judges. The story should thus be concluded for all those who have started and led all media moralisation and discredit. Of course, freedom of opinion and public expression is one of the most important human rights and freedoms. There's no denying it, and I'm not denying it to anyone. However, can this constitutional right go beyond all other constitutional human rights? No, no, no. It is not possible, and if I continue as a true rule of law, I must not go. This is exactly what many do not realize, especially when it comes to public commenting on political February. I myself have been deeply biased, unbiased and completely uncritical, and at times extremely insulting discredits, including by my fellow Members, eminent lawyers and others, who used the media only as a means of spreading misinformation and thereby concealing their own sins. I ask these people: Is this fair, moral, ethical, legal? I don't think so. Of course, everyone can twist words, only exude from the whole context what comes to him, what is heard, and what is readable. Also, the fact that the prosecution dropped the charges against me may be a subject of speculation, which has not only been once, but has repeatedly hurt me. It is also true that the prosecution has not even made a substantive point. My then employer, the Ministry of Defence, had the opportunity to continue his criminal proceedings, but he did not. This can also be speculated on both my own harm and my own benefit, as do self-declared judges and moralists. However, on the basis of all the notifications, evidence, information and documents collected, the Ministry decided that the procedure would not proceed. Clearly, it has found that there are no grounds for proceeding. It was precisely this media affair that I began to search the documents with which many or some of the ones I had not been familiar with myself. So I got a number of documents relating to an affair that I never dreamed of. As of this February, I am also in possession of a certificate of impunity and a certificate that I am not recorded in the criminal record. I hope that at least these certificates recently issued to me by the Slovenian state authorities are credible. To get back to the legislation that's ahead of us. I will vote myself in favour of all laws. The Pavšalists, who had previously assessed me and others on average, without even asking themselves a little bit about what and on the basis of any evidence they conclude, and thus defiled my name, may be over my position that I support the news without any reservations, strange. Yes, I do! Why? Because I am also joining all the calls to achieve the highest standards of moral action in society, politics, because I am convinced that this kind of hygiene we are discussing is essential. Even if this hygiene minimum were already in force at the time of my parliamentary candidacy, I would not have any problems. I haven't been, and I'm not even legally charged today, except legally convicted of any crime in and outside this country. Everyone who is running for office must first clear up on his own, and I have personally approached the candidates without a hint of bad conscience, and I am also now without bad conscience performing the function entrusted to me by the electorate and electorate of my constituency from Illyrian Bistrica. So I absolutely support the adoption of laws relating to the achievement of higher standards for the nomination of individuals for public functions. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that public officials should also renounce the methods of discrediting, public lynch, instigating, speculation, labelling and pointing at others, even after they have held responsible positions. Those moral judges should first sweep the threshold. The example of my high school certificate is very enlightening in this regard. I, though proven innocent, was marked as an example of immoral and unethical conduct. Those who, without serious arguments and evidence, have been superficially and tendedly moralized, are likely to be an example of ethical conduct. There is a need to distinguish between serious advocacy to achieve higher objectives and standards and abuse of these categories for bottom-up political purposes. If I was intruding one year ago, I should have said it to my face, not abuse the morals and ethics to that end. I support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar, then prepare Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Civil Gazette, we are aware that a package of these laws requires a broader political consensus. It is with this very purpose that we have proposed this first hearing to put forward dilemmas in this Chamber, to make better proposals and solutions and to come together to an appropriate consensus. The coalition of all should be concerned about raising political culture. Today, it has been repeatedly mentioned that it is not a good time. There must always be an appropriate time for these matters. Look, really understand our proposal as well-intentioned, as a step towards this, of course it will not save everything overnight, but as a single aid, as a step, that at least at systemic level I may someday reach a sufficiently high level of political culture in our country, because we are not, after all, a young democracy. In operational terms, our proposal is nothing more than to propose additional conditions for the submission of the application; on the other hand, to introduce the same reasons for the termination of the function. That's practically all. I agree with those who say that this may be a dead letter on paper, but we are not doing very well, us public officials, to improve this level of political culture. Obviously, until we reach this high level, we must also choose paper as a tool and also legislate some watts for the candidacy. This is also a symbolic message, about equality. A referee wishing to be employed in a public administration and to conduct the simplest administrative procedures must deliver two certificates to the employer before the employment contract is concluded. That is, that it is not recorded in the personnel record, that it is issued to him by the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions Branch and that there is no ongoing criminal proceedings against him. That's what he gets in a competent district court. His leader, and the minister doesn't have to do that. Here, too, there is equal access to those — more than tens of thousands of public servants and officials have certain vats for them to be able to enter into a contract of employment, and we do not have 3,000,700 public officials in fact. See if any contract of employment in the Republic of Slovenia can be cancelled, if it can be broken, then I think it is right or that we must at least give voters the opportunity to cancel the contract of employment to the mayor, or that they can call it off, even though it is elected by an absolute majority. And we're just giving this opportunity with this recall referendum. I'm not saying that all the solutions that we put in this package are the best. But that is why we accept this in the regular process and are, as we were in your coalition, as we will always be in any other coalition or opposition, in the Civil Gazette, ready to compromise, so this time too. And that's basically all we wanted to offer with this package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u69	Lord Daniel the Crimson, after him Michael Prevc, and Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. I must say that I have listened carefully to the debates that have somehow been focused on finding a solution to this issue of these laws, and I have no doubt that there is good intentions here, at least for most of those who have been signed under this initiative. But I can't say that everyone on this list can, in this direction, also, I would say, be properly evaluated. Some of the debates I agree with were very interesting, first my colleague Bevka, later my colleague Jelusič, and also my colleague Brulco, who we do not agree with many times, but today's debate has gone in the right direction. And there are others, including my colleagues and colleagues, where it has been made clear that trust in principle, ethics and law will not be achieved, and I think that this is the right message that we can see. Even if the timing is not right, most would probably agree on this package that we have before us. To invoke this street would in some way be a bit of a diversion, Members and other officials are chosen to drive some things. There is often a public opinion that is unfavorable, but if we do so, we do not need mayors, or saints, or the National Assembly, because it will be decided by some groups that are organized and give their opinion. You have probably also received certain documents that come through e-mails about this legislation, "Civil initiatives of self-government of citizens of Slovenia", where I will quote how some things are imagined and seen. There's a big problem here. They say, "It is the mayors who establish in the municipalities a way of action that is more or less subordinate to their will and interests." Apparently none of these have ever read the Law on Local Self - Administration, where it is known who is the determining officer in a local community, and this is the municipal council. They also say that when mayors take office, they give advice to their mayoral friends from neighbouring municipalities, and I quote, "and the mayor first makes sure that there is unanimous majority support in the municipal council." If this is some kind of initiative, he obviously doesn't know how the law in this country stands. The mayor cannot afford a single mind in the municipal council, nor can the President of the Government or Parliament in the National Assembly, because the electorates have determined this. So, there's a lot of starting points and talking nonsense, but it's published, and there's some pressure on the saints, on the mayors, pressure on the MPs to adopt legislation that will solve it. She's not gonna save anything! That's the problem! The story we now have on the table is the story of the previous Parliament and the Zares Group, which has prepared this legislation. At that time, we also saw her in some way, getting a message that this was going to work. The first step was to expel the mayors from Parliament because they are the biggest pests in Parliament. This was the general public opinion, and this was the opinion of certain parliamentary groups. While the data clearly showed that the mayors of Members from each mandate are becoming less and less. In the previous reference, I think there were 11 of them, and in previous mandates this was a pretty strong group. For the public, it has been operated that mayors are those who unite within Parliament and are some silent opposition whatever – they can vote everything. This was said by some who did not get to know each other at all and thus clapped and smeared the mayors as such. I think this is the wrong approach. It has been said that mayors can influence any decision in Parliament and, on the other hand, this incompatibilities, which they have so cheerfully advocated, are not problematic in the case of doctors, professors and various other influential groups, which can also influence legislation at some stage and can also be questioned, but only the mayors. I have to say personally that I don't know any such case and they didn't mention it either. By stating that the mayor has some absolute power and is a legislator in two cases — that's what the lawyers said. The mayor at the local level does not take decisions, they are accepted by the municipal council. In this case, there are problematic municipal councillors and MPs, because they adopt legislation twice at national and local level, but this was not an opinion for eminent lawyers. I want to say that when we adopt this legislation, which is now being tabled, some facts need to be looked at and read and proved a little more carefully. In the law itself, there is also a speech in previous decisions that will be applied retroactively. I hope they are aware — those who propose — of what it means for all the municipal councillors, mayors and all the others who may be treated by this legislation. It also speaks of having no right to compensation. This is also at odds with the constitutional articles we have in our constitution. When we read this legislation, which I said was already presented by Zares in the previous term and it just continued, I am a little disappointed. It is stated that it is usually operated by all neighbouring countries that are within the European Union and always follow someone's example. In this case, if you have looked closely, Estonia states Latvia, Portugal and Spain – as examples. In any of the cases cited, there is no reason enough for anyone to be legally competent in the proceedings, but in these cases they always say that completeness is always a legal judgment, not a suspicion or some other procedure. Thus, it is very difficult to support this legislation, as it is presented, even for the reason that I know how it has been prepared and how it is also being processed in some way and in some way it is being tried through this pressure and talk about what the street requires and that this is what some public requires, to create the impression that we are all MPs, mayors, and all the officials in some way are already being corrupt and therefore we need to adopt some legislation that will restrict us. This comparison is stressed at all times that officials must not meet or comply with any criteria and officials. But no one wonders that officials go to an indefinite service and are somehow protected in some way and also safe through other standards. Officers – the next day may be elections, next month may be elections. And it is clear that anyone who goes into politics or the mayoral function or as a Member is aware that he is at large and must be credible because in the next step he will not be able to perform if there is an early election or anything. And the Priors put all these officials in the same basket! My experience of the last week is also such that, on the basis of some misinformation, a great story can be made, it throws a bad light on someone without even taking any facts into account, which has been beautifully reflected in other debates. It is important to ask what about ethics and morality and trust in other institutions as well as in the media and others. If we go purely to a banal matter that is also a question for someone, no one asks. For our president, the anti-corruption commission probably received reports, including in the report all of these years: 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. All these years he was obliged to report and the Commission also acknowledged that he had reported with a slight backlog. Then someone wonders how to discover just now that something is wrong in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and this is mentioned in the 2012 report, 2013. Does anyone then ask about confidence in these institutions? I think that's a question to be asked. If it's a disaster for anyone, that's his problem. We can also ask ourselves about ethics and trust and morality and principles, as previously stated in some of the votes, just those who are now putting certain legislation into the procedure. It is the most controversial, and this is what colleague Simčič explained in his longer speech earlier, what is the ethics of the media and public newspapers, which in certain cases also create politics, but not that it is created by Members and mayors, but by someone else. I won't support the laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Prevec is not. Mr Lah, after him Jani Möderndorfer and then Joseph Jerovšek and Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. I don't support this legislation either. However, I think it has already been inappropriate or unwise for the proposer to say, for those laws that need the support of 60 Members, that if they do not go through, they will withdraw everything. So that they don't ask other parties first, or at least little support for this legislation if they need 60 votes in Parliament, and what they are investing and expecting us to do in a 12-hour waste of time in the National Assembly to come up with such supplements so that we can reach a two-thirds consensus and then put this legislation into the next reading! It would touch on the principles of innocence and the principles of proportionality. Here, the proposer proposes that the defendant should have ceased to function as both mayor and MP in the National Assembly, and that, if legally released in the proceedings, he has the right to compensation under the general rules of bond law. Also from comparisons that have been made for certain other countries — the Member State or the mayor shall temporarily withdraw from office at the time of the trial and, finally, if released, shall continue to function. We don't have that. We probably don't choose the means to remove someone and get rid of the mayor, the MP for all eternity! Then he can claim compensation in court for practically destroying his career, so that life can be ruined at that time — no one cares. It is said that by means of this law we want to reach only some basic threshold for media lynches, which we are witnessing so much among our colleagues. I am afraid that if we continue this way, this latter species will be filled quickly and probably this law will be meant to be no longer in the last row, but those who do not belong to Parliament because of such and other unethical principles and so on. Then the principle of proportionality. If we look at the mayors, I did a little checking on what it would be like to adopt such a law if the mayor or an official in the municipality failed to execute a public contract in time, and the mayor was to blame. Some mayors who had already been sentenced to three months of probation would now have their term of office terminated only because an official did not carry out a public contract likely to have some 10 or even 100 per year by the medium-sized municipality because the mayor is responsible. If both the mayor and the officer had been punished with three months' imprisonment, the officer would have stayed and the mayor would have left. I don't know if this is the right way. There's only a few cases I'd like to say. For example, for European projects, cohesion projects we had the preparation of projects in the yellow and red books. Those of you who were mayors or mayors, you know that. All of a sudden, the ministry demanded a building permit to be held after the red book, and after the yellow book this is a reasonable cost. Thus, to all those who followed the procedure through the yellow book, all the projects fell out and, suddenly, the congregation had to carry out certain orders in a short time if it wanted to catch all the hands to carry out the project. It was necessary to amend the municipal budget, to carry out public procurement. We know that it is necessary to make a public contract for all contracts already over EUR 20,000 and for investments over EUR 40,000. And the mayor for the project, which has already spent a million or more euros and which is now going to fail, has something to do. In this case, he waives his functions in order to save the project, because theoretically it is not otherwise possible. I can, but it's not his fault! But if we are talking about economics, I would probably rather have the congregation get a few million than leave it as a function. However, if we are talking about proportionality, whether such an offence is proportionate to the penalty that this law gives to this mayor – I don't think so. I agree, however, that if people have elected a mayor and they have been mistaken to give the opportunity to call off this mayor, but it is 2%, we have heard that from Mr Tonin, apparently too low. But this threshold of 2% when the procedures begin is the basis for the media lynch that follows. This, unless the signatures of 30% of all voters are collected, which in most cases they probably won't, it doesn't matter, because he will be punished already when someone remembers that the mayor is being suspended and the media is still working, as we have a chance to see. Then we ask ourselves, given that, in the previous term of office, the President of the National Assembly, Mr Gantar, has declared the end of the mandate that the greatest success of his mandate is to get the mayors out of Parliament. You could see this at the beginning of this term on television and his statement, although this is a rare case. Why? If there were more mayors in this Parliament, who are already more than one mandate, they would probably have done a lot already. The mayor who was elected twice or three times – believe me, he is a member of Parliament! He had to try three times and do something to get into Parliament. We just erased them so they're gone. Here was a colleague sitting there, probably some of you remember, with a red shirt saying, "If I'm the mayor of the country's biggest problem, then this country really doesn't have any big problems." Here I agree with Mr Brulco's entire debate, which was also the former mayor, that it is not the time to deal with these problems all day long when we have so much more important to use European funds, to provide new jobs, and I do not know what else to list. Last year, 67% of all investments were made by municipalities. It's a statistic. We probably have a very different outlook for this year, because investments have fallen and so far I have not heard an assessment that the congregations have mismanaged the money they have been given. This is recognised by all experts and all parties. Then why are we going after municipal councillors, mayors with such laws? Drawing on European funds, cohesion projects – see what percentage of these investments are on the shoulders of the municipalities! And we're all afraid that these funds won't be exhausted. On the other hand, by all legislation, both the Public Procurement Act and such laws, we limit them to disability. Why? Are we afraid of successful projects? Do we fear the popularity of these mayors, who I don't think are politicians, but who are managers before? A colleague who is not now in the hall told me a few days ago that it was not too good to ride a wave of populism and that this led certain parties or politicians. I think that this legislation is pure proof of riding on the wave of populism of those who gather on the streets because we will continue to be popular, whether we achieve something or not. I think it is unwise and better to withdraw this sooner than to spend the whole day on such legislation, which is further damaging to all of us, including to those who are sitting here, and we will not gain Parliament's reputation with such proposals and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Lach. Well, we now have the announcements for further discussion: Janez Ribič, who is not, Joseph Jerovška, who is not, Joseph Horvata, Jasmine Opec, Franca Jurša, who is not, and the first one between us is mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. It seems to me that the wise decision of the College of President or then of the Vice-President of the National Assembly to bring the six amendments of the laws together into one item has given a joint introduction and has also allowed the debate to take place on all the proposed laws. Why – general treatment is intended precisely to define ourselves in terms of objectives and objectives, and these are clearly political decisions regarding legislative proposals. That is why I would stop at the things that have been said several times now and what the applicants have specifically stressed. They mentioned the expectation or demand to raise political culture. If someone thinks of political culture as just the quality and culture of political debate, it is also essential for me to understand how, when we discuss the role of Members and Members, their views, the component of this political culture also recognises the plurality of views, the diversity of views and the respectful treatment of the various aspects of the same thing. It is therefore perfectly understandable that my views on the appropriateness of the moment in which we are discussing such a sensitive topic as the entry conditions for the emergence of a political function or the conditions for calling off political functions are different from those of someone else. I believe that, in addition to the allocation of European funds, economics and financial matters, the National Assembly, as the highest legislative branch of power, must be seen to have to deal with topics of the public sector in the broadest sense, as well as society as a whole, where political culture and the debate on important social issues are also at stake. If I add to this that we are at a time when there is a lot of talk about early elections, the debate is about what people really expect from what a politician or public function is supposed to be at the right time because there are a lot of calls for early elections. We've already opened up such a darkness in such a time. It seems fair to me that those who, in demonstrations now, publicly in the media or on the Internet, demand or propose different entry conditions, the greater role of civil society, in order to draw Members and Members to know what it means to be the holder of a political function, that people want to read as an open hand. Without mentioning names, I'll tell you what I'm thinking: about alternate elections and more candidates. Who had the least difficulty revealing the material situation? The one who's already in politics. And the biggest problem was the one who doesn't have political experience yet. That's it! Will anyone want to show off his belongings as the law says? The other thing I would like to mention in this regard is that legislation is changing considerably and that public data requirements are constantly spreading. The Anti-Corruption Act has also changed and it is necessary to know what officials needed to report once and what they need to report now. So things are changing, and ways of verifying property are different. Here I would like to draw attention to the third aspect of political culture, which today came in a very obvious form to the expression: the laws we are considering should be universal. As some in the debate did, they did not show this image because, if anything is necessary for the coalition MP, it is also for the opposition and vice versa. This isn't about division into coalition and opposition. Marriage standards are the same for all people. In doing so, I think it is important to note that, as in an enemy speech, there are many situations or contexts that decide how to deal with a particular problem. For someone, when it comes to his fellow thinker, there is also a politically different attitude that is already hostile to speech, to another in the opposite situation. Look, some have written that we are some of the mind-sets of the last century. I'm a big fan of the last century. The previous century brought women active and passive electoral rights. It all depends on where we judge things from. As a representative of the legislative branch, however, we cannot agree in any way to take the position of those who believe that the laws are set to be violated. Therefore, it seems to me that respect for the law, respect for the Constitution for the holder of a political function is an absolute requirement which cannot at any time be put into question or placed in the context of czech, but now is not the time to discuss this responsibility. Neither can any past merit decide on this. I was — those who have known me since — involved an advocate for the separation or incompatibilities of the mayoral and parliamentary functions. I will not go into detail why, but a few laws we have passed or set out in laws that have been the result of local lobbying and that may still happen to us. Regardless of the fact that we should see the whole as Members of Parliament and Members, we then succumb to some local interest that may later prove to be of poor interest, which may also have negative effects. What also belongs in the field of political culture – it is no longer about entering politics, but about the possibility of recalling – is a problem of accepting objective and subjective responsibility. Where we feel that we are – but we do not need centuries of parliamentary experience or I do not know what kind of experience – this is a matter of being held by an individual – where we are the worst is the ability to accept objective responsibility. Subjectively it is known that it must be demonstrated directly. What needs to be accepted if you are a public official is also an objective responsibility. Cases where individuals are able to accept their objective responsibility and with all legal means to enforce their position by taking appropriate legal channels and then returning to the issue of origin, there are not many such cases in our country. What is a major problem for me in political culture is that political culture is always linked to a system of values. There are values that are universal, and there are values that change. When those values differ from those of individuals are included, this is sometimes very incompatible with the concept of political culture for individuals. What I want to end up with is this. The discussion was about how it is necessary for political function holders to exercise the right to vote, in fact to fulfil one condition, that is, age. Well, then the laws can make something else. I think some people really like to deal with this issue in, in my opinion, an unacceptable way. I remember individuals, distinguished individuals who claimed to be only a Member who, after his professional education, was a lawyer. If that were the case, we would not really need the National Assembly. The National Assembly is simply made up of different principles and it seems to me that this legislative body must be a cross-section of society. That is why I am so much in favour of parity democracy, and that is why we have already adopted some provisions in the past that allow for greater representation of women, and that is why there are always calls for age-dispersal, and it is also right that we are different according to our professional orientation. However, what is important for the holder of a political function is that an individual in a political function does not solve his or her existential problem because it limits the freedom and quality of his or her decision-making. When I have to decide on these six laws, I still have the biggest embarrassment that the two laws are one that requires a two-thirds majority and then this package will not be balanced. It is also related to whether we will work – do not understand me, it is not cynical – order only at local level and, as a result of this abandonment of two-thirds of the laws, leave matters at national level. However, my fundamental question is whether things are set so that we do not pay the price that will burden public finances due to the lack of ingenuity of the provisions in this law. Otherwise, things must be arranged, whether the coalition has already been formed or a coalition has not yet been formed. 90 of us in Parliament are still sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes. Then the government and the proponent, Mr Braniselj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, again. I must say that I was very pleased with the words of the speaker, because in the part where she speaks about the universality of values that everyone should recognize and agree on, I fully agree with her. Any policy should be based on values and policies that are not based on universal values is not a modern policy, it belongs in another place and time. However, if we want people to recognize us as policies that represent universal values, we should be consistent with ourselves to begin with. These laws, which are before us today, for example, provide for the mayor's recall with a special referendum for recall, that is certainly a solution worth considering, but it would be worthy of support if such criteria were to first apply to themselves and adopt legal acts so as to enable the Member to be recalled. I agree with those of you who said that this is difficult to do in a proportional electoral system because you can always hide behind a political party. For this reason, it would be good to speak of universal values to unify ourselves at least in those that are in principle agreed in virtually all democratic countries. This is that in order to develop a country that needs to be a fundamental objective, we need a democratic plural environment, we need a stable economic environment and we need respect for democratic values, so that the voice of the people, the only real holder of power in democracy, is one that has the first and last words. In Slovenia our current system, unfortunately this is very clear in these days, does not meet any of these criteria. When you talk about universality value, then one of them is that it should apply the same criteria for all; if it is proposed to call off the mayor, at least in that package we should propose calling off the Member. If we agree on these universal values that we need a stable economic space for entrepreneurship in the mandate, that people know what the environment is, that people judge when they go to elections, and not just see political parties or their presidents, then of course we need to cut through another tool than before us today; we need to cut into the constitution and decide on a two-way electoral system. This is the only one that makes all the things we've talked about today possible. As long as we have a proportional electoral system, however, all these restrictions, which are here, including who writes in the law, will not have the effect that anyone may wish; because all those aspects will still be present, permanent negotiations, converted, unstable economic space and, if you want, also unstable democratic space in which such principles apply today, and tomorrow, depending on the situation in which someone is located. I can say that I am happy to belong to a party that has been consistent, and I am consistent in this, regardless of whether it shows good to anyone, whether we are in such or different positions, I have always advocated a two-way majority electoral system – because it was necessary for Slovenia! What we have now, I'm sorry, it's not going anywhere. This was best seen in those days when, at first, the formation of the garmine coalition was recalculated, dividing the chairs, the departments, and now they are just talking about the program. We would need a place in which you have a programme first, then there are people who are responsible and that is decided by the electorate and their word is final and must be valid for the entire mandate. But if something happens – because Churchill already said, "Trust is good, but control is even better," – we should follow everyone, without exception, even Members, behind them first, stand a chance of calling off, there is a referendum to decide whether someone can continue to function or not. However, the situation in Slovenia, I firmly believe, when it comes to respect for democratic values when it comes to respect for ethics when it comes to consistency in its words and actions, is significantly different than it is today. Then it would not have happened that we have the one who speaks the most about ethics in this House, and he has drawn compensation and served at the same time a very long period of time. Because people could make a direct decision about this, including everything else that you or perhaps will talk about today and in the coming days. But the will of the electorate should be decided, and their word should be the last: without restrictions, without priors, I don't know what kind of cuts and regulations, that would be quite enough. But if the current system, in which we are always witnessing to such and other trade, remains forever new coalitions that are blocked within because someone else is blackmailing because they are already "ad hoc", then this does not lead to some long-term development. Not to the long-term development of political culture, not to the long-term development of the economic system, nor to the long-term development of successful entrepreneurship that would be established on the global market. This is a Slovenian problem, and because of this we have been walking around like cats around hot porridge, but we are not talking about the essence that some of you have recognised, but in the following sentence we have already denied ourselves, which is that we should speak openly about the whole system and, above all, the electoral system. For it is always so that people have to define themselves positively, in this they recognize, recognize their interests, their values, then it will be theirs, they will truly accept it, they will live with it and then democracy will live as it is. People must have fundamental confidence in the system and the institutions of the system, although no democracy can succeed in the long run, even the question is how it can be produced; and it can be produced. If we are not able to talk, someone else will likely talk about this over time, but then the economic and social conditions will be even worse than they are today. Because of this aprioristic rejection, I cannot understand the essence of the problem! For this reason, I do not personally view as positive these proposals which are ahead of us, nor can I assess them on behalf of the SDS as positive. They are in obvious contradiction with the Slovenian Constitution. About that, I hope we all agree now. And as they are, at this point they serve nothing but smoke to mask the emerging garmin of the coalition, which first divides the chairs and then starts talking about the program. This is, excuse me, something that is not in the interest of the objectives that you have defined today, on the promotion of political culture – which, by the way, requires that things be discussed honestly and without distraction – nor is it in the development interest of the state of Slovenia. But it is certainly in the interest of those who want to persist in power as long as possible. However, sooner or later, as we say, these things will have to be made very clear. It is likely that such laws will not have to be adopted; however, if one of these restrictions is decided on, it is clear that such a restriction must be enshrined in the Constitution and, above all, do not be misled by the public with really completely demagogic proposals, such as when it is very clearly stated in the Constitution for the President of the State, under what extremely difficult conditions a constitutional action before the Constitutional Court can be brought against him, but it is proposed that, at the time that a legal indictment would be brought against him, his office would be terminated. If anyone is convinced that this is in accordance with the constitutional principle, raise your hand, but as far as I can see, there is now no raised hand in this room. It's actually what kind of corrupts these laws. Such laws as these do not comply with the fundamental principle that you have defined for yourself that you want to help raise the level of political culture. At the end of the day, it also requires so much expertise and awareness that you do not invest in something that is clear in advance that it is completely unrealistic and even illegal. I can only do it one more time. What Slovenia needs is to harmonise, reach consensus – and claim that we once did – on what Slovenia needs; that fundamental values are all democratic values, which are recognised by the united Europe; that we need an effective stable economic environment and when we agree on these values, that we will seek the best solutions for Slovenia within these values. In the SDS, we propose once again to you a two-way majority electoral system, with the possibility that people actually decide who represents them in Parliament and that this link between them, therefore, between voters and elected Members, is still quite strong. And something else would have caused this: it would have changed the relationship of any enforcement authority to Parliament. In the majority electoral system, it is perfectly normal for ministers to come for each Member to ask in particular how he will vote and how they will take their opinion into account. Take a look at how the American Congress works, or some other comparable parliament of a democratic state with such a long tradition. With us, as you know, it's a lot different. As a result, until we put these fundamentals in place, they will actually work so that the realizations of the values we want will actually be made possible, until then we will be wasting our time with such proposals, which, unfortunately, are obviously unconstitutional. In the SDS, we propose that we go to the point of talking about values, about development and find appropriate solutions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Branisel, on behalf of the motioners, you wish to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. It has been said that it is not a good time to deal with legislation such as this moment before us. Right now is the time to get on with it. We don't have any coalitions, we don't have any commitments, and we don't have some government to listen to, how the National Assembly should vote. We will decide for ourselves what laws we will adopt here; we will adopt laws about us and probably other politicians. If ever, then now is the time to deal with this matter. True, I myself feel that there are some shortcomings in the whole package that is ahead of us. I have followed with interest all those who have been constructively and generously alerted to these shortcomings. If this thing goes forward, of course, we will resolve it, sincerely desiring to come up with good solutions that will actually mean raising the political standards that we currently miss in this part. We talk all too often about unconstitutionality in mind, unfortunately that's the way it is. I must say, with just a conflict-of-constitution curve we cannot resolve, we cannot discuss the matter in substance. I have touched on this in the beginning, and I have spent quite a lot of time explaining why such proposed solutions are not unconstitutional. Of course, we will only be able to see this as a follow-up to the procedure, when the Legislative and Legal Service and perhaps another institution will also give an opinion on this. However, it is possible to intervene in active and passive electoral rights by way of a halt. It is possible, if the Constitution itself is to do so, that is what we have in Article 82, which speaks of Members. There, the Constitution itself speaks of the fact that, with regard to the nomination of Members and the mandate of Members of Parliament, specific criteria can be laid down in the law, which we now have for six months of imprisonment, which is when the function is terminated. What is the anti-constitutional effect if this threshold is set at 3 months of imprisonment? Unless otherwise, this matter is expressly constitutional. The second condition in which the Constitution permits interference with these human rights is, however, if an intervention is necessary for the protection of human rights, others, or for the protection of the public interest, if it protects the rights of others — Article 15, paragraph 3 of that Constitution. What is a greater public interest than confidence in politics, the rule of law and the institutions of this rule of law? What does it mean to support these novels that are now ahead of us? Support means that we are to raise standards in politics, this is a gesture – we are to raise standards in politics, which we are all talking about and we are all for. This is the way to get there. It is also a sign that we say we trust the rule of law. We trust the rule of law, we trust institutions if they lead to judgments in the way they are needed, and which we will then all respect. And yes — my colleague Brulc earlier said that if convicted people or perpetrators of crimes are found to have been convicted of a criminal offence, I appoint criminals. What else is the name of these people in this country? Why are we moving around? Of course, they are criminals, and there is no room for criminals in this Chamber, and I think there is nowhere else where any authority is exercised: whether it is at the local level or at the state level. Let us also tell people that we are not afraid of these changes. The idea – a two-thirds majority is required for two of these laws, for those two that may be the most important, the Law on Members and the Law on the State Council. We have this moment in the State Council, and we must also make sure that it is also established there. In the event that these two laws do not receive the required two-thirds majority, I would like to announce that we will not continue to force the rest of the package because it is immoral and irresponsible to reject the changes in the National Assembly, and by the same logic we will be making changes at the lower levels of government. Once again, I thank you for today's debate, which I have been following with interest, I have received many good proposals. I am also pleased that this debate was not too long and, of course, we recommend support when the vote takes place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the entire list of debaters, but we still have some time to discuss. So I'm asking you if anyone else would like to discuss it. I see that there is more desire for a debate, so please report to the debate. We have three panellists reported. Mr. Lucky Meh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, the subject is certainly the real one. The moment is also right that we are discussing the institutions of public functions, because in a way people are telling us, whether we understand it or not, whether we accept it or not. Some of you said that's what the street used to say. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the people, our electorates and our constituents said! They said that something was wrong with the public function holders and that something had to be done, and it is therefore right that we are talking about it here today. It is, of course, a political culture for us, for each individual, for parliament as a whole and for the people, for the people, if you will. When you walk, ladies and gentlemen, across the pedestrian crossing here in front of the National Assembly, do you then realize that you are Members? No, come on! I see a lot of you walking across the street like that. This is the response of us, the Messengers and Members, that we respect the laws, that we are set examples; a good and holy example. In each of our actions, in our speech here, in our conduct, in whatever we do, when we are weakly or timidly turning to someone, we give what we are not supposed to give, and therefore it is right to talk about it. I think principle is actually real. We talked today about objective and subjective responsibility. For a long year, I was mayor of the municipality, and when I listened to the story of Ivan Vogrin, when he was convicted, or when he was on trial for something he did as mayor in 2007, then I am aware that this can also happen to me, for any year of my work in the congregation. But my objective responsibility is, and such a standard was somehow introduced in the congregation in which I worked so that in a case where I would be legally accused, I would actually have to resign. This is a matter of principle, and I know that this was an objective responsibility, but I also realize that as mayor, I had an objective responsibility. And people told me in the elections, they gave me confidence, but that's the attitude that I should have done, and that's what I was prepared to do when I was running and, of course, I would have been elected to the National Assembly. This is not smoke; this proposal is not smoke, it is not fogging anything. I take this proposal as starting to talk about the real problem. It may not even be necessary to adopt this legislation or similar legislation, but we certainly need to talk about it. Today there have been many good proposals and it would show respect, also to consider legislation as one that people would respect. Of course, I agree that legislation is for us to respect it. So somehow I'd say it would be good if we supported it. Let me remind you of something else. I will appoint France Kangler because we have led a series of projects together, including the European Cultural Capital. He stepped down, ladies and gentlemen, he did it my way. Because people, its citizens, and its citizens demanded and because it did not find another answer to how to calm that situation. It is therefore right for us to speak responsiblely here about the situation in which in a way we need to understand the moment and at the right moment to do what people expect us to do. It could be a recall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u82	Your Honor! At least one thing we agree on today is what I see positive. The need to strengthen people's confidence in the institutions of the system. What we don't agree on is the path that makes it possible. Indeed, these prohibitions, which are here in the proposed form of laws, which is the wrong way, could be written into the Constitution. Personally and, I'm sure, even the SDS as a whole would certainly be willing to talk about it. However, we warn you that this will certainly not be enough. If we really want to strengthen people's confidence in the institutions of the system, that democracy will be fully realized and we will also be economically successful, then we need a system in which people will recognize the values that follow politics as their values, that they will firmly believe that the same criteria apply to all of these values and legal solutions and actions. We need a system that will be economically successful and will allow entrepreneurs a stable space in which they will freely decide on their conduct and thus compete successfully within the borders of Slovenia, the European Union and the world market. That's what's going to actually strengthen confidence in the sitem. There's something else you need. People as voters and voters must honestly believe that their vote is decided and that they and only they have at least once in the elections or in the referendum really the first and last words. This means that they must no longer be witnesses to scenes when there is always intra-political trading, to the acquisition of different voices, to the changes and to the conversion of the entire political state to the head, when one is here today, tomorrow is there, everything is the fruit of trade, or if once a coalition is created, then it is blocked inside because one of its articles is forcing it or possibly all of it. This means that people need to believe in this sincerely, a clear picture in the elections, before and after the elections, which means that they need a picture when they know in advance who they are willing to cooperate with, what the programme is, what the joint programme of those they decide about, and what people are behind this programme to really assess whether it is the right programme in which they recognize their values, and whether they see in these people who are competent to implement their values through this programme. That's when people will trust the system. The answer we offer to the SDS, which is the only one I know who meets all the criteria listed above, is the two-way majority electoral system. I suggest we start talking seriously about these solutions. Slovenia needs this life. If we continue to witness constant turmoil, constant trade, permanent internal blockades, constant changes that make space unstable, infuriate money, create conditions that are unfriendly to entrepreneurs, and thereby permanently undermine our development, which is the basis for prosperity for all, including for the social state, then Slovenia will only slide down and just the question of our political maturity, whether we are honest with ourselves and with our constituents and we are prepared to swear that. If we change the electoral system or if it is just chairs and insist on existing or modifying a proportional system that is in the interest of political elites, or if we are willing to take a real risk to people with names and surnames on a two-round majority electoral system. I do it with pleasure any time. We will see how much readiness is for what is in the Slovenian interest, including for everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. If the idea of the necessity of implementing the majority electoral system hadn't arisen, I wouldn't say a word. I am very upset that the offer of the majority electoral system is a permanent mantra of SDS, which is also supposed to be a miracle stick to solve all the problems that Slovenia faces. If we were critical of the level of expertise in the proposed laws, there was much to be heard about this, then it would also be good to expect the largest current government party to hear the opinions of experts who point out that for countries with a small population, the majority electoral system is not the best solution. I don't mind if they have a chance at elections for small parties, but I would like to point out something else. When we refer to what stability, what respect for values would the majority electoral system bring. Let us look around Europe and ask ourselves: Are countries with a majority electoral system immune to corruption? Are they immune to the fact that their parliamentarians were not subject to different investigations? Were there no abuses found in those parliamentarians? It is simply that when I talk about values, I speak from a different perspective, as is the case with respect to values, Mr Grims. Here is the difference between us, which will always exist, and here is the fundamental problem: the majority electoral system is, we have already said that when the President, who is currently doing business only, offered a solution to the crisis and there was a majority electoral system during the set of measures. We Social Democrats have said that the majority electoral system is not acceptable to us. In this regard, we do not see the need to amend the Constitution at this point. And I repeat, not all dilemmas are solved! However, if this is the way to strengthen a political party in power, then I particularly object. But that's all I'd say for the end. When we talk about building confidence in the institutions of the rule of law, then I think that one who is considered to be a very good part of the Slovenian population as a leader who trusts him could do the most if he respected the institutions of the rule of law. I'm afraid not. And it shows up over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-06-SDZ6-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. There are no more debaters. We only have one round to go on, so we are closing the debate. On the proposals for conclusions that the draft laws are suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, 7. 3. In the context of the votes. I hereby interrupt the 9th, 10th, 11, 12, 13th and 14th agenda items and thus the 11th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. However, I also have a notice or a notice from the Chairman of the Committee to the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. They have an urgent session at 3 p.m. and 15 minutes in the conference room in the basement on Šubičeva Street. Thank you very much.
