ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 58 and the first paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Alenka Pavlič, Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mrs Jasmina Opec, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Jožef Kunič, Mr Mitja Meršol, Mr Janez Ribič, Mr Jakob Presečnik, Mr Franc Bogovič, Mr Bojan Starman, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Dr László Göncz, Mr Branko Smodiš and Mr Michael Prevc. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 40th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 26 June 2013 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda of the meeting, so I suggest that the assembly set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received with reference. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. Please check the functioning of the voting devices before we move to a decision. I hope everything's all right. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 40th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before we begin our consideration of the agenda item, I just want to remind you of an important event for the National Assembly. Today we mark 20 years since the adoption of the First Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first President of the Commission for Rules of Procedure, Mr Miran Potrč, said at that time that it was not just an internal organisational act, but that its content was extremely important for the democratic, efficiency and quality of decision-making. We have written down in the Rules of Procedure the rules in force in the National Assembly. We are now awaiting amendments to the provisions on the referendum, but I would also like to find agreement on changes in the work relating to respect for the Resolution on normative activities, particularly with regard to the commitment of the Government as a proponent of laws to the previous public debate, so that the general public can also participate in the drafting of laws. We will never really be able to write down business provisions in such a way that we can solve just any situation, but we must be aware of its fundamental mission every day – to enable Members to effectively and legally adopt laws and other acts for the benefit of citizens and citizens. I hope that today is one of those where we will try to follow these very conclusions to the greatest extent. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal recommended in relation to the state of democracy in Slovenia in connection with the original resolution of the Council of Europe No. 1096. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 26 Members and Members, with first signed by Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank, representative of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. On 25 June 1991, Slovenia was declared independent. At the celebration, the Yugoslav flag was replaced by Slovenia. More or less all symbols, which in any way resembled the old totalitarian times of Yugoslavia, had been removed everywhere before. On 25 October 1991, along with Yugoslav symbols, the last soldier of the aggressor army sailed from the port of Cyprus. The farthest visible among passengers was the red star. You can see that on all the videos. The departure of soldiers, military techniques and the symbol of the red star was mass accompanied by Slovenian flags. We thought it was forever. Ten days ago, we celebrated a state holiday. The Slovenian and municipal flags and flags of the European Union were exaggerated. At only two official state events, the five-legged symbols of the former failed country were "sneaked". They came to the National Assembly for the invitation of President Janko Weber. Cankar’s Father, a socially highly subtle and communicative text, had no possibility in the National Assembly. At the same time, luxury services and luxury menus from the period before independence were found in the courtyard of the great hall. The symbolism of the actions of Janko Vebra – "no" Cankar and "yes" to socialist-communist prestige was more than a message. At the time, members of that elite had many privileges, special resorts, special shops, hospitals, free provision of fresh food, etc., and the Cankar people worked for their prestige. The Yugoslav symbols were invited to the national celebration by the entire state summit – Borut Pahor, Janko Weber, Alenka Bratušek – probably encouraged by a recent concert of revolutionary songs. But let's go back to the time immediately after the conquest. Less than a year after the declaration of the independent and independent state of Slovenia, the first political death victim in democracy fell. Ivan Kramberger, who then had high, around 20% support, was shot in suspicious circumstances only a few months before the first presidential elections. The circumstances were never satisfactorily clarified, although the sentence of imprisonment to the alleged murderer took place later, but then there were strange coincidences too. Unfortunately, the in-depth professional and political debate on this event has not been held and this crime has disappeared into oblivion. Good year later, on 23 February 1994, a significant statement by Milan Kučan, the president of the country, who said: "He is an enemy, and all the means are allowed to defeat the enemy, not only those known by democracy, arguments, counter arguments, but all that democracy has nothing to do with. This is first disqualification and then liquidation, if even physical. Someone in this kind of policy is always out of line, it's disturbing. Whether they're ex-boyfriends or liberals or clericals, depending on who thinks they are." What light does this Kučan statement put Kramberger's murder in? It's probably no one's doing this, but it'd be good to look into it. This declaration was a signal of the highest authority in the country for the use of the methods and means of the previous regime, was a public call for the demolition of democracy and is typical of totalitarian regimes. Such a declaration remains morally, politically and judicially unpunished only in countries where the totalitarian regime rules or in democracies where the totalitarian regime remains hidden with all the underlying hidden infrastructure. The latter could have happened where the emerging democracy was unable to carry out at least political lustrations and cover up political-clientistic links in the sub-systems of society with which the privileged and supporters of these totalitarian mental patterns and actions would at least be removed from power for a certain period of time if they were not able to punish the already so-called independent judiciary for crimes committed. We have a continuity. All social sub-systems remained intact, and their strength was only strengthened. Over the years, they've been able to afford more and more. What would happen to such a statement by the President of the State then in any normal, democratic country, such as the United States, Germany, or closer to us in the Czech Republic, Poland or the Baltic States? How would their media, public opinion, policy, investigative and judicial authorities react? Nothing happened with us. There was no call for the resignation of President Kučan. Even now, he is a festive speaker and talks about values, morals, ethics, about independence, although the latter was never his most intimate definition. We may wonder whether this Kučan statement was a prediction of the next discredit that took place not for a month after that against one of the key figures of independence, John Janša. On 20 March 1994, Depal village happened. Janez Drnovšek's project of removal was carried out by Janez Drnovšek with the valuable assistance of his remaining partners in the government. How then and later did the organiser of the New York evening, Mr Borut Pahor, then the Vice-President of the United List of Social Democrats, later its President, later the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister, and now the President of the Republic? He never distanced himself or at least seriously disputed the position of the President. Should I do something like a real Democrat? He would, I'm sure, but he never did, and he can't do it now. This Kucan paradigm was carried out by the governments and coalitions of Janez Drnovska, also by the government of Anton Ropa and Borut Pahor. It is not too much to recall the rejoined statement by the former Prime Minister, Prime Minister Pahor, when he said that the country is being led by the background uncles. He never wanted to explain, nor to the explicit questions of journalists in the presidential campaign, who are these prominent people. He said, "I won't name people, not because I'm not brave, but because I'm not stupid." Apparently, Pahor knows them and is consciously protecting them. It's time to explain who these people are who our laws don't apply to. President Pahor is one of the keys to ending monopolies and clientalist corruption ties. Finally, it is time for his clear and firm word. If she's not here, he'll remain their lieutenant. Otherwise, the Kucan paradigm is also implemented by the government of Alenka Bratušek. It also destroys anyone who is likely or likely to be more seriously affected not only by this clienteleistic monopolistic continuity, but even by touching it. But let's go back to the time after the conquest. The Social Accounting Service found a number of infringements of Marković's corporate property law. There were over 700 cases of injuries, hundreds of millions of marks. Applications were launched and investigative procedures were initiated. But what was the response of the government of Janez Drnovska? The sentence was followed by the liquidation of SDK, in accordance with the order of Novogorski Kučan. The message was more than clear. Where old cats and their monopolies are present, there's no harm in it, there's no harm in looking at it, but it's just looking forward, into the future. What was the response of investigators and judges? No one in this package was convicted of SDK. Many cases of economic crime have been caught up in investigative proceedings, many have been rejected by the police, many by the prosecution, some by the judiciary, and many have been stuck in the cabinets of prosecutors and judges. If there's been any proceedings in court, there's been an aberration. The examples of Elan, Sicura, and many others are well - known. No prosecutor or judge has been convicted of this. One of the most unfortunate cases is the prosecutor from the economic department of the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office, Železnik, in which more than 370 files were stuck, many are obsolete. Epilogue: The prosecutor was released at the end of the proceedings and became a lawyer without difficulty. The case of Prosecutor Boštjan Penk, the chief of the anti-corruption office who was detained when he was caught in a parking lot when he and John Zidar, who had been persecuted as the prosecutor, translated the documents. The court order for the seizure of documents has not been issued. After having an affair with Zidar, Penko resigned and got a job at Nina Zidar Klemenčič's law firm, and later became a self-sustaining lawyer and, among other things, defended Zidar, who had been persecuted earlier as a prosecutor. The circle is complete. The fact that Nina Zidar Klemenčič is the wife of the current President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Goran Klemenčič, may not be a mere coincidence, but shows how the uncles in the background work and how they rotate the chosen staff. The impression that the KPK has always been in the interest of Kučan’s 1994 paradigm is offered on its own. The current KPK president, or former LDS politicians Klemenčič, found, this year, with a financial and legally controversial report on the President's property situation at Janša, that it was allegedly very wrong, that Janković merely repeated some media facts and did not detect any tangible benefits in the purchase of airline cards and other matters. How could the KPK have missed this in such a thorough examination? Janša was also dealt with by the former President of the Anti-Corruption Commission Kos, who was one of the key players in the Patria affair in 2008, who also appeared in the Kučanov Round following the report of the Sunday Diary. The model of the forecast was identical to that of the Depali village. Only the bearer of the news was different. As the project of transition or so - called wild property was being upgraded, it was soon to be seen. There were centrally managed grapes, mountains around Sava Kranj and Gorenjska banka, grapes of Istrabenza, Pivovarne Laško, Autocommerce. The media clusters were formed. In them, the mother and daughter were mostly associated in the supervisory councils, and they cared that things were intertwined properly. At that time, State Secretary Rob was practically everywhere, in the SRD, in the privatisation agency, in line with the development of the small economy, in the Court, in the ATVP – where the state assets were transferred. He was involved in setting up supervisory boards as well as directors. He boasted that he had set Zoran Jankovic at the top of Mercator. Everything was central, nothing was left to chance. Links are still working, as the current partner of the MP Jankovic's Positive Slovenia. He later became Minister of the Drnovsk government twice. In 2002, he became Prime Minister and President of LDS. In 2003, his government sold the Systemic Technology to Viator & Vector, where the director and co-owner were an influential member of his LDS, Zdenko Pavček. After a few months, a minority share of the System Technology sold to a foreign company several times as much as it paid the State. The Robbery Government signed a letter of intent for eight-wheelers of approximately €300 million without a call from the system, setting up a weapons cluster. No institution or body has detected any dispute in this project. In response to public suspicions of corruption during this period, the Rop Coalition set up a Commission to prevent corruption with Drago Kos in charge. Perhaps because the lawyer of the Systemic Technics, Miran Kos, brother of Draga Kos, was focusing elsewhere on those who had prevented an agreed and harmful business with a public order. First on the smaller target, Erjavac and Gutman, and in 2008 on the main enemy, Janez Janša, although Gutman and Erjavec stated that they had no interest in the latter project. But John Janša had to be guilty, and so it happened with an unlawful judgment. Later, as a member of the affair with a hearing about the Gulf of Piran, Janša was unwarrantedly accused. He was richly rewarded by the Pahor's government as one of the directors of the European Investment Bank. That's it now. On April 1, 2004, grapes received an upgrade, Forum 21. He established some kind of empire that connected grapes and then controlled 60 to 70% of our companies' quotations on the Slovenian stock exchange. However, networks have not always been able to prevent everything. In 2004, Janša won the election. The movement towards transparency, savings and work for the country, and not for political-Clientalist lobbyes, began. The new Takeover Act required the disclosure of the hidden parking spaces of the transit tycoons, who also had to disclose what they were hiding in secret post offices and parking spaces. The reaction of the privileged was predictable. The password "Janša has created tycoons" has become everywhere present and in millions repeated winged. Attention was diverted, clientalist corruption was mediatically defended and they ran on. The State banks have been heavily sponsoring politically oriented transit ownership projects, intentional or actual investments, supporting enlargements to the Balkans, approving leasings, etc. Many poorly insured or even unsecured privileged loans were granted, which were several times higher than insurance and the interest was low. We have also dealt with some cases in the National Assembly, such as Ultra. In order to protect national interest, many recapitalisations were carried out and purchases of shares within clusters were financed. The financial crisis has affected many. Part of the national interest package is Nova Kredittna banka Maribor, where, by political order, three state-owned companies had to transfer tens of millions of euros to buy up shares through the Pahorje government and the AUKN. Today, this share is worth almost nothing. The current President of the Government, Alenka Bratušek, was then a supervisor at the New Credit Bank Maribor and also at the Housing Fund. That's where the investigation is going. Due to national interest, many companies have not been sold in time. Protectors have always been enough. Today these companies are significantly less valuable than in 2007 or 2008. We will only lose 400 million euros in Mercator over the last two years, and the buyer is the same in both cases, Agrokor. Which opponent will cover the difference? The Mark of Fat, the Dean of Jewry or anyone else? It is similar with Telekom, the Insurance Company Triglav and other companies. A consortium of banks has been set up for the Cologne political project, providing approximately €115 million. Pahor's team was just competing to see who's going to put a bigger impact on this project. These days, bank investments are transferred to the so-called bad bank, but the European Union has blocked transfers because it estimates that it wants to transfer them at too high prices. Obviously, not everyone can be brought around, and apparently not enough influence in the EU is left to the uncle. Many of these projects were used only for channeling capital outflows to selected quiet or secret addresses and locations. The Pahor government guarantee schemes to help the economy were in fact just a form of recapitalisation of banks. The Supervisor, Banka Slovenije, did not want to report the problems to anyone, not to the government, not to the National Assembly, nor to the Commission of Inquiry, not to public or closed sessions, that we were not even talking about business banks. No one was ever sanctioned for anything, no mistakes were detected, everything was in order. Only when it was necessary to ensure the capital adequacy of banks did the recapitalisation take place every so long, and then a little dust rose and then everything went back to normal. The recapitalisations were provided through budgetary, money-gathering taxes, which means that we paid citizens with higher tax burdens, less investment, less social and lower general standards. We paid for everything for the people and the economy. The difference was covered by leased loans, which will be returned or paid back by the same – the economy and the citizens. This will make social rights even lower, even smaller investments, even higher taxes and even fewer jobs. This also brings about the balance that we are now dealing with. Until the monopolies, which completely distort competition and serve only transition elites, break down, until there are quality jobs in the national interest, but the privileges, we cannot hope for success until then. It is amazing how much of our assets have been managed in one way or another to drive those who have worked through or manipulated governments. During just three years of the Pahor government, the state owed 8 billion euros. Huge amounts of money from state-owned monopoly companies have disappeared. The latter required EUR 507 million in 2011 only for financial recapitalisation and only brought EUR 34 million in dividends. EUR 470 million of annual losses in cash, which is an extremely poor balance sheet. In just three years, we have fallen from 91% of the European Union average to 84% or 85%. The privileges of the creators of the so-called national interest remain intact. As long as this is not the way to expect new developments, not new start-ups, not quality jobs. The democratic centralism of Forum 21 is a surviving and proven ineffective model. The Council of Europe was very early aware of the problems of the transition of post-communist countries. In 1996 it was in its resolution No. 1096 pointed out very early on the worst possible scenario of developments in countries coming from a totalitarian to a democratic regime. Point 3 states the following: "The danger in the event of a failed transitional process is large. At best, there will be oligarchy instead of democracy, corruption instead of rule of law and organised crime instead of human rights. Worst case scenario, however, could be the result of a velvety renewal of the totalitarian regime, if not even a collapse of the emerging democracy. In this worst case, the new non-democratic regime of the larger countries can also pose an international threat to weaker neighbours. The key to peaceful coexistence and a successful transition process is to achieve a delicate balance in the search for justice without seeking revenge." This Council of Europe forecast has been fully realized for us. The state-owned, media and judicial monopolies support each other and systematically deform Slovenia. They were created by a non-democratic ideology, combined with interests, benefits, privileges, and money. All left governments have done their utmost to ignore the warnings of the European Union. Revitalisation of democratic centralism, the red star, the preservation of monopolies is a step away from European values, is a continuation of the path behind the developed world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u3	Thank you. On 2 July 2013, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Justice as the working body. Since the Committee did not adopt individual parts of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the home working body had been completed. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u4	Good-bye to all of you! At its 26th urgent meeting on 2 July this year, the Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a recommendation on the state of democracy in Slovenia in relation to the source of Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, and published on the website of the National Assembly, in the Rapporteur, 21. 6. 2013 On behalf of the proposer, it was particularly stressed that Slovenia is an equal part of a modern united Europe on the basis of the direct decision of the people at the referendum, which was adopted with an extremely high level of consent and with an extremely high level of legitimacy. This one binds us. We have also adopted European values, which should be applied consistently when we form our country, its institutions and its conduct in the legal and political sense of the word. Europe has defined its values in several acts. Among them are the most important Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096 and a resolution on European consciousness adopted by the European Parliament also by the votes of all Members from Slovenia. According to the proposaler, the state of democracy in Slovenia is not good. European values are not respected. This reduces opportunities for economic development, which is reflected in an increasingly poor standard of living. Nor is the situation in the Slovenian judiciary appropriate, nor is legal protection available within a reasonable time frame, as has been pointed out by the European Union several times, which has specifically pointed out in recent recommendations that this has a very negative impact on the economy. The right that a company achieves after five years of bankruptcy when people are on the road can be a new injustice. On behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice, Dr. Senko Pličanič, said that the situation in the Slovenian judiciary was not satisfactory, but he assessed that important steps had already been taken in the right direction so that the situation of the rule of law, the strengthening of the institutions of the rule of law and the judgment in due course and thus the effectiveness of the judiciary as a whole could be improved. Finally, the Committee voted on individual proposals for conclusions and did not adopt them. He did not even accept the additional proposals proposed at the meeting. This led to the conclusion that the proposal for a recommendation on the state of democracy in Slovenia is being considered in conjunction with the source of Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096 completed on the parent body.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u5	Thanks for the report. In order to introduce the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Senk Plitčanič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It follows from the proposed starting points of the proposal that today's discussion, although bearing the title of the debate on the state of democracy in Slovenia, is focused in particular on the issue of the rule of law – a similar question similar to the content we had on the agenda in the previous extraordinary meeting of the same motioner, which dealt with the state of justice. The proposed starting points also revolve around issues of rule of law, so that what I will say hereafter will be linked in particular to the question of the rule of law, because the question of the rule of law concerns the origin of the proposer of this extraordinary meeting. As you know, all the time since I entered politics last year, I am pointing out that the situation in Slovenian justice is not satisfactory, that when we talk about the rule of law, the very essence of what the word union rule of law means – but what I have tried to illustrate several times with the words of Cicero, who said that we have submitted ourselves or become slaves to the law in order not to be slaves to the people – that we can only ensure real democracy in the way that we establish the rule of law. If I go back to whether we have the rule of law in Slovenia fully established – my assessment is that we do not have it. We have taken a number of steps in the time after independence, and much work is yet to be done. I think there are steps in this direction that we have taken as the Government this year and that I have taken as the Minister of Justice. I am referring to the commitment made by the Court and the Government to Slovenian citizens and citizens on how to improve the rule of law by the next year, in particular in the work relating to the speed of functioning of the courts, for the duration of judicial proceedings. I am thinking of both the amendments, the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, which I hope will be adopted next week in the National Assembly, and a number of other steps that have not yet come to Parliament, but will come soon. The type of these legislative changes and some other steps I will mention below are steps in the right direction, steps towards strengthening the rule of law, as is also discussed by the proposer in the proposed starting points. I must say that my assessment of the state of the rule of law is more optimistic than that of the proposer, from which it can be understood that the proposer thinks that we cannot speak at all about the rule of law in Slovenia. I don't think so. We have a rule of law, but we still have much to do to ensure that this rule of law is really in line with what Cicero was talking about. I think we're taking steps in the right direction. More of these steps will be needed, but legislative changes are only one of the things that are necessary. Other measures are needed, a number of other things need to be done to ensure that the rule of law is fully established in our country. These other steps relate to changing mental patterns, changing the spirit in Slovenian justice, not only in Slovenian justice, but generally in all systems in Slovenia where public officials operate – changing the state of the spirit also in the legislative branch of government, including in government, in state administration, wherever we are dealing with public affairs. When we talk about these things, I think it is more important than legislative changes to establish a patient and reasoned dialogue between all of us, among all of you who have the greatest responsibility in the legislative body when it comes to adopting legislative changes, to come together and thus establish and further strengthen the Slovenian legal state and the rule of law. If that doesn't happen [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] Nothing to contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u7	Thank you, too, Minister, for presenting the opinion of the Government. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Polonca Komar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National List.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Civil Gazette, we claim with full responsibility that the Republic of Slovenia is a democratic state. The fact just stated is not just a chronological record. Let me begin by saying that we are assessing that the current political debate on ideological differences and different views on the historical facts is a mere waste of time and tax money. People don't pay us for this fruitless debate. In the Citizens' List, we want to look ahead and solve the real problems of people. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia, by declaring the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 December 1991, has finally become a State of constitutional democracy. As of 14 May 1993, she became a Member State of the Council of Europe and joined the European Union and NATO on 1 May 2004. In all these cases, as a recognised state of constitutional democracy. But life is complex. We're people. Our lives are important, they are essential and reflect the life of the country. Constitutional and legal standards come to life when they become more than just a letter on paper when we live them when we feel them. In the Civil Gazette, we believe that this is the case in Slovenia. However, we cannot deny that between 1945 and 1990 we lived in a single-party system of self-government socialism, in the economic system of the so-called agreed economy, and we advocate the necessity of the necessary measures for the establishment of a democratic social order in the full sense of a word that only the rule of law allows. In a short time, in the good two decades, the young Slovenian country has traveled a long way, and it is right to admit in a self-critical way that not everything has been done on this path of transition without mistakes, so that with today's experience and awareness today we will do something different, better. We can rest assured that in a number of areas we have followed the resolution's recommendations in a good way. It would also be difficult to talk about a centralised country with over 200 municipalities. But surely the unfortunate model of privatisation or transformation of former social property is one of the key factors that we have entered the period of the global economic recession unprepared to face the problems of low productivity and weakened international competitiveness. The economic crisis in society is always reflected in a wider way – as a crisis of values. People are dominated by pessimism and willlessness, but we are convinced in the National Gazette that by strengthening the rule of law we can decisively reverse the trend of social and economic movements. The weaknesses and weaknesses of the country's functioning, as revealed by the financial and economic crisis, cannot be overcome by some other times, some invisible mechanisms and some other people and the current problems with documents from the previous century. This is an escape from the responsibility we do not accept in the Civil Gazette. Together today, we are all responsible for the welfare of Slovenia, and we must take urgent measures as soon as possible to allow for some fundamental structural changes. Therefore, we did not agree with the proposed points of the recommendations when dealing with the labour force. In the Civil Gazette, we cannot agree to the claim that in Slovenia the transition to actual democracy has failed. Why do we think that? We have a functioning system of division of power into an executive, legislative and judicial branch. Each branch shall have its own system of appointment or election, operation and consequent responsibility. In democratic elections, citizens elect their representatives of the legislative branch of power, and two new parties after the last elections in 2011, in Parliament, there is evidence that there is a full sense of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. We cannot accept a diagnosis of the disease of Slovenian democracy in the Civil Gazette, since two years ago our client was only a group of individuals and individuals who linked us to the belief that Slovenia can and must lead better. Today we have the opportunity and responsibility to decide on key decisions for the future of Slovenia. We are convinced that the Republic of Slovenia is now, 9 years after joining the European Union and NATO and 20 years after joining the Council of Europe, the State of Constitutional Democracy, the rule of law and the country which respects the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the judges. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia currently has two important amendments to the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia – a proposal for a new Law on Courts and a proposal for a amendment to the Law on Judicial Service, which is established under the general obligation to respect the independence of the judiciary, which is also valid for 4 June 2013 a joint commitment to improve the state of the judiciary. Today, it is important to look to the future and to put all the country's creative energy on the development of justice and justice in such a way as to remain within the rule of law, the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. It's the only way to develop the rule of law. This is possible only through gradual judicial reforms, reforms that will not be comprehensive and therefore wrong. This is exactly what happened to us in the 1994 system reform of the organisation of the judiciary. Reforms are necessary, but not because of the Council of Europe resolution being followed, but because of the linkage to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which binds everything in the Republic of Slovenia as its highest, most important legal act. It is also important for raising social morality to raise economic activity and employment, and above all to recognise the mistakes of the current regime in a self-critical way. We have an extensive state apparatus, so the National Gazette will continue to work decisively towards creating a lean country, increasing the efficiency of the system and reducing costs. We have a poorly functioning banking system due to past wrong business decisions and a fragmented system of disguised forms of corruption risks. Only when we realize our own mistakes can we plan and make improvements. The National List actively participates in the establishment of market economy mechanisms. We need to rehabilitate the banking system and restore people's trust, which we can only achieve by identifying the culprits for the situation and demanding their responsibility. Our Justice Minister has also actively launched a reform of the judicial system towards greater efficiency, elimination of judicial backlogs and more effective prosecution of crime and corruption. In the process of demobilization, we are aware of the importance of the achievements of information technology in the National Gazette. The future is based on e-services because they are cheaper and faster. It is particularly important that so-called projects of the future, such as e-elections, e-government, e-democracy and the like, stimulate young people's interest in understanding the concept of democracy and actively engaging in the creation of their future. In the end, let me summarize briefly. Rule of law, respect for human rights and diversity, freedom of choice, equal opportunities, economic pluralism and transparency of decision-making in Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096 are, are and must be, the core of our democratic society. Corruption and crime must be prosecuted by all legal means. The establishment of a market economy, decentralisation, demobilization, demonopolisation and deregulation are essential processes. The implementation of this resolution's recommendations merely because of the political interests of individuals or any political party, capital appetites or revenge would simply destroy the concept of democracy. Therefore, in all other more pressing problems, we are surprised to hear today's debate on the recommendations of this resolution of 1996. Why haven't the parties that you've been constantly exchanging seats in the National Assembly been able to do this debate since the day it was in existence? This legacy debate should have been concluded long ago. Democracy is our value, our wealth and our power, the power of people and the power of politicians when we are ready to share it with each other for the sake of all of us, for the good of Slovenia. The process of changing the mind, changing the heart and spirit is and will be the hardest part of the transformation of every society. In the Civil Gazette, we focus on the challenges of the future, so we can say: Slovenia is and will remain an independent, sovereign and free country. Let us not forget, as representatives of various political parties and views, we have been elected to this Parliament in democratic elections. We're colleagues now. We're different, but we're here for people and people. It's a democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We're here because of people and democracy. We must all respect the rule of law, human rights and democracy. This is supposed to be the basis despite our differences. The motions for today's meeting, or the recommendations to be voted on today, state that the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe No. 1096 on the necessity of decommissioning the 1996 totalitarian communist system's heritage points to a great deal of danger in the event of a failed transitional process. Firstly, the resolution states that, at best, instead of democracy, there will be an oligarchy, instead of the rule of true corruption, and rather than human rights, organised crime. Isn't that very familiar? The worst case scenario could result in a velvety restoration of the totalitarian regime, if not the collapse of the emerging democracy. Applicants estimate that transition to actual democracy in Slovenia has failed. In Slovenia, there is an oligarchy instead of democracy, corruption instead of rule of law and organised crime instead of human rights. Through dominant media, the concept of so-called democratic socialism is offered. We are already in the Slovenian People's Party in 1997 when the Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096 on the necessity of decommissioning totalitarian communist systems and on the law on the elimination of the consequences of the communist totalitarian regime, simplified, on lustration, stated that we support the resolution and that this was an appropriate basis which clearly drew attention to procedures in accordance with the rule of law and procedures that do not constitute revenge. Indeed, it was a good time to go beyond the old thought patterns, but unfortunately this has not been achieved. Unfortunately, we did not know how to do this in a dignified, correct, right and constitutional way. The responsibility lies with those political structures that had a majority and a government for 17 years, along with all subsystems. The applicants further state that the circumstances and facts suggest that they have been warned in resolution No. 1096 proved real enough to be impossible to overlook. We agree with this because we have many too many cases that clearly show this: New Ljubljana Bank, New Maribor Credit Bank, the legal system of Elan, for example, what happened there, Satex, newer, SCT, and hundreds of other cases. This is why we have a 20 billion-dollar debt with companies, even a 40 billion-dollar debt. This is why we have over 120,000 unemployed people and cases like this. Because of this and such cases, we have a huge number of people living on the brink of survival. No resolution and no law, but recommendations, can change the thinking of what is in our heads, our subconscious and our heart. As the resolution also states, the process must include a transformation of thought, a transformation of hearts and minds, the central objective of which should be to eliminate the fear of taking responsibility and also to eliminate the lack of respect for diversity, extreme nationalism, intolerance, racism and xenophobia, which are part of the legacy of old regimes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we reject the vendetta that occurs at the time of each exchange of power. Thus, in the first months, some deal only with the cleansing action of previous acts. Whatever was not already adopted in 1997, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that today, however, there should be something different. But this is not the case, and the crisis surrounding us is obviously not sobering, let alone sobering us. This also clearly indicates every time an ideological argument about the symbols of the former Yugoslavia, for example on Slovenian Statehood Day, which we strongly reject in the Slovenian People's Party. We are convinced that at the celebration of the country's birthday, only one who sincerely wanted and looked forward to the birth of the independent and sovereign country of the Slovenian nation can celebrate it. Otherwise, in Slovenia today we have so many current challenges with regard to the economic and social situation, where we have to channel all our energy. It's pointless to get lost in ideological controversy. According to the Slovenian People's Party, any policy that relies on its rhetoric on division and cruelty is irresponsible and, above all, completely unproductive. The fact is that in Slovenia we have never so far poured pure wine in connection with World War II, the events during and immediately after the war. The fact is that it still haunts us today and that it is preventing us from developing in here and now and in the future. The fact is also that the lack of clarity in this part of Slovenian history creates political divisions today and the soul of Slovenian development. Unfortunately, so little has to be done to get through this. War is war and always a bad thing. It's a disaster for the nation that's in it. In 1941, young people at various ends of Slovenia under various occupations, German, Italian, decided to go to the liberation front among the partisans, often unaware of the plans for the communist takeover of this movement or simply did not respond to the calls of the communists, but were determined to defend their home. One or the other, young or older, who in one way or another defended their home, their homeland, certainly did not rebel in order to reach out to their own nation of brothers, fathers, or sisters. But this tragedy has unfortunately happened. In the Slovenian People’s Party, we condemn that the period of postwar killings, when thousands of Slovenians died under the orders of Communist executioners, did not experience an epilogue with a conviction of injustice and guilt. This would make a distinction between the partisans who fought for the liberation of Slovenia from the fascist yoke and those who killed innocents on behalf of the revolution. It is right to clear this part of history from the fifth floor with dignity and without ideological politicization, to set up a common monument for all victims and to go as a nation finally freed from this trauma, forward to the future – that we will no longer happen every year at the celebration of the Statehood Day in the second millennium to remain prisoners of politicians who, in the sad part of Slovenian history, forge their own political capital in 2013, which is 68 years after the end of World War II and 22 years after Slovenia's independence. It is still true what the Ljubljana archbishop Dr. Aloysius Šuštar once said: "Slovenia did not have a new generation when democratic changes occurred in 1990 that could change the old communist nomenclature." In the sense that she wasn't given an opportunity. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is time for Slovenia to lead honest, heart and mind leaders tomorrow, to look to the future and not to revenge, as also stated in resolution No. 1096. It is time for us to clean things up immediately with dignity, correct the twisted history in Slovenian textbooks and immediately combine political energy in order to resolve Slovenia's sovereignty and economic and financial position. Today's young generation is interested in how the current power and parliamentary policy will lead Slovenia out of the crisis and enable young people to have perspectives and jobs. This is what young people rightly demand from us politicians. That's what we have to do. For Slovenia, there are too many challenges in the present to be lost in the past. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we call on all Slovenian policies to face history with responsibility and to take more responsible action for the future. Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, this is our task, and that is why we have been given a mandate. In the Slovenian People's Party we will do everything in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Václav Havel, the last president of Czechoslovakia and the first president of the Czech Republic, has repeatedly pointed out that political parties treat the country as their servant. Customer officials often abuse the country by using state resources to create their own promotion opportunities. I cannot shake off the feeling and fear that the same is happening today in the National Assembly, and I wonder how the debate on the state of democracy in Slovenia in relation to the source of Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096 helps to resolve the current economic situation in the country. How will opening ideological issues help to reduce universal pessimism and disappointment among citizens, improve confidence in politics and faith in a better tomorrow? Politics are constantly amazed at the apathy of citizens and is attributed mainly to the consequences of the economic crisis. It is not aware, however, that it is the policy that stirs up opposition and disappointment over its own country in the citizens. At a time when the unemployment rate among young people is the highest in the history of Slovenia and when the poor half of pensioners live below the poverty threshold, politicians raise themes from the past past history and the first decade after independence. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we cannot agree with this way of working. We strongly oppose the promotion of polarisation in the Slovenian political space, the opening of ideological themes. We have stood firm behind this position in the composition of the previous coalition, and we stand firm for this today. Dear Members, I ask you whether you are sure that today's debate will help Slovenia on the path of progress from the crisis. By reading and mutilating each other, will we prove to the citizens that we are doing our best to find solutions that will allow for a secure future for all generations? No, it's the opposite. By doing so, we are pushing Slovenia deeper into the abyss. People will feel even more alone in their tribulations, and with a policy that deals only with itself, they will find our country's situation even more hopeless. The signatories to the request for an extraordinary meeting stated that there are only two ways to choose. The first should be that we accept the preservation of the situation and the second should be that the transition to actual democracy has failed and that we are faced with the same problems as 23 years ago, and that we should make sure that the legacy of the totalitarian regime is definitively decommissioned in accordance with Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we do not agree. We believe that Slovenia and its policies have a third path, the basis of which will be the resolution of the current economic situation. We are able to bridge each other's differences and work together to find constructive and effective solutions for starting the Slovenian economy. We are able to ensure a secure future for all generations without constantly measuring our power on the political floor, on endless accusations and onslaughts. With such and similar debates as this one today, we have lost a lot of valuable time. We're losing him today, and our health is collapsing. Young people remain unemployed, the elderly are left without the care they urgently need. At the moment, there are 120 000 unemployed in Slovenia, including many young people. Nearly 280,000 pensioners receive a pension of less than 500 euros – they live on the threshold of poverty. More than 33,000 pensioners with the lowest pensions remained or gave up a protective allowance that provided them with all the modest survival from month to month. In the previous year, youth unemployment increased by 30%. Are these numbers that are eloquent enough to stop the debates that are extremely inappropriate at the moment and roll up our sleeves and do the hard work? In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are aware of the situation in which we are and, above all, the hardships experienced by the weakest groups of the population, so we do not agree to this. On the contrary, we are actively committed to protecting the weak, which is why we have never been able to agree to a reduction in pensions, which is why we have done our best to ensure that Kad funds are spent on pensioners, which we have also succeeded in. Dearly respected, the Slovenian population has been aware of the real problems of our country since the time they have been alerted to by protests and public meetings. When will politics — whether left or right or central — be aware of them and begin to solve them effectively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Ms Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, welcome! The drafter for the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly made recommendations on the state of democracy in Slovenia in relation to the starting point of Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096, which unfortunately was not accepted by the competent parent working body. Given that it has been 17 years since the adoption of the resolution, it is good to recall its contents. In 1996, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution on measures to eliminate the legacy of the former totalitarian communist regimes. The resolution notes that the legacy of the former totalitarian communist systems is an issue that is not easy to deal with. On the one hand, this heritage covers an institutional level where it is necessary to establish such a structure of state authorities that will ensure the realization of one of the fundamental principles of democratic society – the rule of law and respect for human rights and diversity. On the other hand, on this basis it is necessary to eliminate and overcome the way of thinking or achieve a transformation of hearts and opinions, as one of the preparers, Czech Constitutional Judge Dr. In view of the situation we are in, the latter is rather difficult to achieve. In the event of a failed transitional process, the resolution draws attention to the risk of oligarchy instead of democracy, corruption instead of rule of law and organised crime instead of human rights. The worst case scenario could result in a velvety restoration of the totalitarian regime, if not even a collapse of the emerging democracy. The key to peaceful coexistence and a successful transition process is to achieve a delicate balance in ensuring justice without seeking revenge. A democratic state based on the rule of law must use procedural means to eliminate the legacy of former totalitarian communist systems. It shall not use any other means. Such a country should also effectively defend itself against the resurgence of the totalitarian communist threat as it has resources that are not contrary to human rights and the rule of law. How current the 8th point of the resolution is. As a result, in some former totalitarian communist societies, the initial consensus for changes in the debris is being established. The old system is once again becoming an alternative with which to compete the ideals of democracy. This cannot be right, especially if we take into account the crimes committed in the former regimes. It should be noted that the totalitarian communist system cannot be an alternative. That's what the resolution says. In order to achieve these objectives, the resolution has made several recommendations to eliminate the legacy of the former totalitarian communist regimes by the Member States. The preparers of these recommendations were clearly aware that the objectives could not be achieved overnight, but rather that they meant a process. It follows from the resolution that the best guarantee for the elimination of the former totalitarian communist systems is a fundamental political, legal and economic reform leading to the formation of a genuine democratic spirit and a political culture. This resolution is proof that in Europe the consequences of communism are completely different from that of many in Slovenia. Europe sees communism as one of three European totalitarianisms, while Slovenia is extremely intensive in its efforts to minimize communist crimes and post-war violations of human rights. This has also been confirmed by Council of Europe Resolution No. 1481, adopted 10 years after Resolution No. 1096, because they were not satisfied with its 10-year implementation, as a result of which the need to adopt another, where additional condemnation of the crimes of the communist states and regimes was required. Let me remind you that on 2 April 2009, the European Parliament adopted a European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. At that time, I was present as a European Member from Slovenia, when we adopted this resolution in the European Parliament, which was voted on by all then MEPs from Slovenia, and in ridicule of this resolution, we named the street after Titus again in Slovenia at that time, even though it was only a few months after the severe discoveries in the grave pit. If we do not understand our past, we risk repeating mistakes in the future. In recent years, we have witnessed the horrifying discovery of the cemetery of the victims of the post-war massacres in the Devil's Cave. These events again put the tragedy of our past history at the forefront. Such events are also the opportunity of our generation to look the truth in the eyes and, once and for all, to relieve ourselves of the burdens of events between and after World War II. With regard to the horrendous disclosure in the Huda Caves in New Slovenia, we are shocked that the unharmed important part of the Slovenian political and civil structure remains silent and unharmed, with the historical facts of who carried out the terrible post-war extrajudicial killings clear. It is sad that some still speak with great fear about these crimes, while those who have actively cooperated or at least morally supported such practices still enjoy great privileges and high pensions today. Non-recognition of guilt, half-century lies that have not yet been fully clarified and removed, public condemnation and reconciliation of victims with traitors and their second-rates cause ever-new wounds and increase distribution instead of reconciliation. If more than tens of thousands of victims and their relatives are added to more than tens of thousands of displaced Slovenians, then we can find that the interwar and postwar communist revolution in Slovenia has affected a large part of the Slovenian nation, which did not receive even moral satisfaction during democracy for all the injustices committed or material damage recovered. Anyone who hopes or dares to publicly express his moral support to these victims is easily marked as a traitor, a clergyman, a supporter of fascism and Nazism, not to speak of an enemy speech, which often even expresses regret that no more has been killed. It's sad. If our efforts to achieve national reconciliation are sincere, then we must first stop ideological scolding and constant accusations after changing history. History cannot be changed, facts are clear. It is clear who were the winners in Slovenia after World War II and who were the losers. This must not be an excuse for any part of Slovenian history because of these tragic facts to be silenced or not to record new facts that have been kept secret, silenced or tailored to the extent of the winners. Every step towards truth, justice, freedom and respect for human life and dignity strengthens the basis for survival for individual nations and for all civilization. This should also be done through the measures contained in the resolutions of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament to remedy the consequences of totalitarian regimes. Slovenia has not yet done its tasks to its people and to the international community, as expected by the resolution. That is also why the same wounds and divisions that hinder us on the path of development and true democracy are being reopened. Let me conclude with point 16 of the European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism. The European Parliament is convinced that the ultimate objective of the disclosure and assessment of crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes is reconciliation, which can be achieved through recognition of responsibility, a request for forgiveness and the promotion of moral reconstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u16	The proposed text of the recommendations is based on the assumption that the new country has neither a legal nor a political or symbolic break with the previous regime, a lack of respect for human political rights and a self-government and socialist economic system. Now is the time for lustration, to remove political forces that oppose full and legal political democracy. Democracy can only be established after the SDS recommendations by excluding leading and other members of the so-called old nomenclature for a certain period of time. In doing so, the proposers make a formal reference to Resolution No. 1096 Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on measures to eliminate the legacy of former totalitarian communist systems. The request for an emergency meeting is part of an extensive SDS scenario for rehabilitation at the first stage of the convicted president of the party for corruption and defamation of the current ruling coalition in the international public, as well as the presentation of Slovenia as a transition country that revives socialism, Yugoslavia and fosters anti-European feelings. A well-known fact is that when the SDS party operates in the opposition, it uses old instruments that it is accustomed to and refers to past history, injustices and all those things that have already been completed in Europe. And chandeliers. In this regard, it is worth mentioning that Slovenia, as a country for the introduction of lustration, has in the past only decided on the conditions for judicial function and has not introduced it on the preferred functions in any changes to electoral legislation so far, which must be constitutionally consistent. It is also appropriate to reiterate that any measures taken in the 1990s should, in principle, be of a temporary nature. Following the recommendations of the resolution guidelines, they should only be implemented by the end of 1999, and it is therefore illogical and erroneous to discuss their introduction in 2013. Most of them have been taken into account or established and are already in the implementation or, given the timeliness of the resolution, cannot be fulfilled or disregard the status of the Republic of Slovenia as a constitutional democracy. The resolution proposes measures in the field of demilitarisation and decentralisation, and similar measures, which the Republic of Slovenia carried out before the resolution was adopted in 1996. For example, in the area of demilitarisation. The demilitarisation was already carried out with legislative changes at the time of the independence of 1991 – the Law on Military Duty, the Law on Defence and Protection, amendments to the Law on Internal Affairs – and in 1994, the Law on Defence. In the area of decentralisation, central reform was carried out in 1993 – the Local Self-Government Act. You could still list it. In fact, it is a matter of dealing with what the SDS party and, above all, its President are not satisfied with. The content of the meeting has no bearing on the problems currently dealt with by Slovenia. The duality of the SDS should also be noted. When SDS President Janez Janša first served as Prime Minister in 2004-2008, he said that discussions on the past of Slovenia were gathering energy and he regretted that discussions on co-operation during World War II were still under way in Slovenia in the 21st century. I quote: "It is Slovenia that is collecting the energy it needs to face the challenges of the future effectively. Those who warm up such debates do harm to the Slovenian future." If we think about the words spoken today, we see that Janez Janša is doing exactly what he once criticized as the former Prime Minister. It is also worth noting that in this mandate, the SDS itself missed quite a few types of mini-lust with the provisions of Article 143 of the Public Finance Balance Act, when pensions fell to some 26 000 pensioners – they were paid in part – even provided by the budget. Among them were internationalists, Spanish fighters and NOB fighters and those involved in compulsory pension insurance because they worked in other republics of the former SFRJ. The latter were later exempted by the amendment of the law. The ZUJF intervened ideologically, unjustly and discriminatingly in people’s already granted pension rights. The Constitutional Court has unequivocally overturned this illegal intervention by the Janša government. We would now like to take such measures in the economy, in the judiciary and elsewhere. Here we can also mention disagreements over the symbolism of the red star in connection with the participation in the celebrations, when SDS Members and political officials decided to celebrate the Statehood Day at Celje because of opposition to the invitation of the Ensigns wearing the red star – even though SDS President Janez Janša as former Prime Minister at the celebrations was already performing under the banners with the red stars themselves. Let us also mention the memorandum of Slovenia – again the self-mounted processes, the mudslinging of Slovenia and the current ruling coalition by SDS Members in international organisations and their bodies, of which the Republic of Slovenia is a member, and could also be listed. Anti-communism is one of the ideological principles on which the political orientation and the SDS programme are based. The latter can be seen in most right and right-hand parties, where the SDS is today, but it is not to be forgotten that SDS was the first party with a social democratic orientation in Eastern Europe or former communist or socialist countries. In this regard, it is worth mentioning that decommunisation in most of these parties was a key orientation for the operation of the period 1990-2000, when we witnessed the adoption of so-called lustration legislation aimed at accounting with former regime officials and co-workers of security and intelligence authorities. Following the completion of the transition and the entry into the EU of most of these parties, political, cultural, social and economic changes have transformed their political identity and orientation or become modern and post-modern parties. While some deviations exist, for example, Hungary, the SDS appears to be one of the rare right-hand parties from former post-communist or post-socialist countries, which still persists or is based on this identity. The SDS is increasingly showing itself in the post-modern European space as a regressive and reactionary party. Even more absurd is the fact that a number of recent and former senior political officials of this party are former members of the Communist Party. The SDS has been consciously promoting the so-called cultural struggle, which in practice means spreading divisions from the time of the revolution and civil war between World War II and the postwar regime, causing retrograde and political processes both on the left and on the right. In doing so, it is worth noting that the SDS is always a political agenda — attention — at the time of the elections, at the time of opposition or when its president is in trouble. Europe of the 20th century was unfortunately full of totalitarianism. In Positive Slovenia we condemn all kinds of totalitarianism. We're not heirs to any of these. Nor do we need to defend or revitalize anyone – unlike many others who find a critical word and condemnation in the debates on totalitarianism many times, such as communism, Nazism and fascism and, above all, the contemporary phenomena of totalitarianism, for example, silence or even look away. Remember France Tsukjati's debate in 2002, when he read the Home Defence oath, which we know of at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, at the time of the examination of the War Cemetery Act, which we know was intended for – Hitler. Totalitarians are worthy of condemnation, and especially the victims of these totalitarianisms, all victims being equal. The difference is whether we want to admit it or not, in totalitarian historical facts, in the levers that enabled it, about the guilt that some people have and feel about it. For the transition to a democratic multilateral political system of parliamentary democracy, the market economy, the legal and social states bear the full responsibility of each country itself. Each country had its own past and has its own problems. Nevertheless, the assumptions and baselines used by the SDS justify the recommendations are contrary to historical and legal facts and the actual situation in Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia finally became a State of Constitutional Democracy on 23 December 1991 when it proclaimed the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. With effect from 14 May 1993, she became a Member State of the Council of Europe and entered the European Union and NATO as of 1 May 2004, in all such cases as a recognised State of constitutional democracy. In Positive Slovenia we note that Slovenia is a civilised, democratic country based on the rule of law and human rights, which introduces modern political, legal and economic reforms. Slovenia is a democratic republic, written in Article 1 of the Constitution, and the rule of law and the social state, reads in Article 2 of the Constitution, and in Slovenia has authority of the people, followed by Article 3 of the Constitution. Slovenia is a democratic rule of law in which the multilateral parliamentary system is established and in which human rights and freedoms are guaranteed. The transition that SDS wants to talk about is over. The basic projects of transition – the introduction of a free market, parliamentary democracy, civil society freedoms and the rule of law – are all related in one way or another to the fight against totalitarian regimes. The free market replaces the state dictatorship in the economy and parliamentary democracy replaces the rule of law. Civil society replaces the ideology of communism and the rule of law replaces the totalitarian state. Slovenia can be found to have done much to remedy the injustices committed at the political, legal and material level. Not enough because injustice can never be fully corrected, but much. This is precisely what needs to be stressed that we would not evaluate the efforts that Slovenia has made in the last 20 years. Let me count some of them. Slovenia, through denationalisation, corrected the injustices committed by the State to the owners of private property by transferring their assets to state or social property. By 2012, it had been decided to recover the assets of agricultural land and forests, dwellings, commercial premises totalling just over €2.5 billion. The Law on the Correction of Blame has regulated the status of the regulation of the former political prisoner, the status of the victim of post-war unlawful deprivation of life and the status of the victim of post-war unlawful deprivation of life who was granted the right to compensation and the right to pension and disability insurance. In order to remedy these injustices, the country will spend at least another €150 million. Slovenia has arranged war and postwar hidden graves, and some still have to. The last amendment to the law of the previous term symbolically asks for the dead forgiveness and admits that crimes and injustices have taken place. These changes have a big symbolic message. This is how the monument is intended for all the victims, and the joint monument in Ljubljana would be written: "The land is one, given to all of us, and one life and one death". You could still list it. The positive Slovenia expresses its respect for all victims of totalitarian regimes, while stressing that, in its operation since 1990, the Republic of Slovenia has already done much to correct the injustices committed to citizens and citizens of Slovenia between 1945 and 1990, especially by adopting those rules, which have allowed the correction of the injustices to political prisoners, the conviction of post-war beatings, the detection and regulation of the hidden graves of the unlawfully murdered persons, the return after the war of unjustly confiscated property and many other acts. In doing so, it stresses that it has made this easier because its transition to a democratic political system of parliamentary democracy has been enforced by the majority will of citizens and citizens on the plebiscite, without violent changes. The future of Slovenia depends on overcoming ideological samples. The issue of totalitarianism and human rights violations must be resolved at a symbolic level. The violation of human rights must be condemned irrespective of on behalf of which regime, ideology or higher objective has been wronged. The SDS requires another of the classic parliamentary debates, of which people no longer have a single job, and the country has nothing less than a deficit. In Positive Slovenia, we wonder what this forced meeting can contribute to. In our view, it can only contribute to the continuation of the impatient and even hateful speech that we have witnessed at the Committee on Justice meeting, that it will meet between peoples and that we will count as ours and yours. We cannot hope to close this issue once and for all at this meeting, although we would be most happy if that were possible. These experiments have been a great deal in these 20 years, and always those who point to others with their finger that they are guilty of failing to achieve national reconciliation are opening up this question over and over and over and over again from here to eternity. It is a political attempt by the SDS to regain attention away from the central problems and current developments and to revive the cultural fight. As responsible politicians, we want to avoid undermining the conflict between Slovenians and the infertile conflict, of which citizens have nothing at all. This SDS attempt, I'm sure it won't work. In Positive Slovenia, we will continue to insist on the democratic gains of this country that we have created, and we want to devote our energy to creation rather than to the persecution of spirits from the past. That is why today's debate, which is supposed to last for 8 hours, will end, as always, without epilogues – the National Assembly will not decide on anything after the end of the debate – we consider it fruitless, unnecessary, and as a waste of taxpayer's money. In particular, if we are aware that we have already held a debate on the work of the proposed recommendations aimed at the area of independent justice and justice, we have already held the 38th extraordinary meeting of the State Assembly on the state of justice of 7 June 2013 about one month ago. It is high time for Slovenia to fully focus on the future. History cannot be changed with any recommendations. Let's look to the future. It is the best we can do to meet the challenges of the current crisis to continue political, legal and economic reforms to unite. We are able to do so in Positive Slovenia. Is that you?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u17	Thank you. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u18	A very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group! Failure to respect European values is the fundamental development problem of Slovenia, and failure to respect European values is a reflection of the fact that transition in Slovenia has failed. Today, Slovenia has become an equal part of the European Union based on a referendum decision, which also binds us and especially when it comes to consistent respect for European values. European values have been defined in several acts by a democratic, modern, united Europe. Among them are certainly the most important Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096 and a resolution on European consciousness adopted by the European Parliament. They both stress the importance of human rights, economic and political freedom and competition, and demand that the past be honestly spoken about, in order to preserve the historical memory, so that the past does not repeat itself. A consistent respect for both would mean that in Slovenia the transition is over, but obviously in the absence of European values we can only learn that the transition in Slovenia has failed. Instead of healthy competition, social capitalism has developed in Slovenia, where one call to a bank under the cover of national interest can give another access to tens of millions of euros. However, a successful young entrepreneur with the best product in the world will be carrying a variety of certificates and documents at the same bank of the day so that he may get a loan of EUR 10,000 if he receives it at all. As a result of such political losses for false investments, the banks are being recapitalised for the failed investments with people's money, with taxpayers' money, which we pay in line with that Balkan river. Unfortunately, instead of healthy competition over the years after independence, we have become an increasingly monopolies state because of the predominant length of power of one political party itself. This monopoly is not limited only to the field of the economy. With the problem of monopolies, insufficient healthy competition, those who are the only ones in any area of social life that preserves and promotes development, we meet everywhere, in education, in health, in the media. The media cartel of central media today controls virtually everything. His worst reflection, when some of you have already talked about the mud in Slovenia abroad, was mud 571, at the moment when Slovenia experienced the brightest moment in its history and took over the leadership of the entire European Union. At that time, a message came out of this media cartel that if Slovenia leads the European Union, it could threaten democracy in the European Union. It's a shame for those of you who did this and for those who still advocate it today. The current government says that it is committed to European values because it is beginning to realise, to take individual measures already taken by the previous government under the leadership of Janez Janša and SDS, but takes them with obvious dishonesty when it comes to European values, without adequate expertise, too slowly and too late. Therefore, there is no positive effect that could be. An example is the introduction of a fiscal rule into the Constitution. Remember the historic words of the Secretary of the OECD Gurrie in Bled when he told the current President of the Government: "If the opposition at the time were the opposition, the current government would support the immediate introduction of the fiscal rule into the constitution, because this would improve the rating for Slovenia, and would have an immediate positive impact on the economy and on the welfare of people. In one year you will be forced to do so, but then this positive effect will be no more." That's exactly what happened, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Bratušek went to talk with Mrs Merkel, came back, and suddenly the introduction of the rule into the constitution was no longer a problem, but there was no positive effect. The key players in Europe are crystal clear about what is happening with genuine respect for European values. Since they are diplomats, they do not express this publicly, but this is seen more clearly from the reactions of financial markets. One very beautiful and comprehensible example is the profitability of 10-year-old Slovenian bonds. These are the interest payments we pay from our pockets to taxpayers, and since they are ten-year-olds, they will be paid by our children for many years. What can we see here? When the government of Janez Janša was still in power, which the whole of Europe sincerely believed was committed to European values, a return of around 5 to 4.5% was required. It was only within a year that the government of Janez Janša managed to reduce, which Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung viewed as a miracle, a remarkable achievement that is not a couple in Europe. Then a new government was set up. What happened? At the moment, the interest paid by taxpayers from their pockets flew to the sky because financial markets do not accept them and do not trust them because they know they are not sincerely committed to European values. Then the Prime Minister went to explain her plans to Brussels. The extra jump was the result of the next day when she came back. This made it very clear how they felt about the present authority. Things are still going on. I would like to recall that in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, when this dirty game of power change began in Slovenia, they wrote that the possible downfall of the government of Janez Janša would bring Slovenia to the brink of bankruptcy. 7% is considered bankrupt under internationally recognised criteria, and we are on the verge of doing so. And let someone else say that in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, one of the most respected newspapers in the world, even though many times they try to get rid of him with their left hand, in any way they make a mistake in their predictions. Ladies and gentlemen, this needs to be stressed, because people do not understand that we are talking about money. Murphy's marriage says that whatever politicians tell you, they always tell you about money. Each percentage of this required yield means, calculated, over a period of approximately EUR 300 million. Now the required return on the interest paid by all taxpayers and our children is on average 2.5% above the government level of Janez Janša. Do you know how much money that is? That's three quarters of a billion euros. Three quarters of a billion euros in voting in the power of the current coalition threw out the window with that game, which is starting to forget a little now how it started when the beach started one after the other. Three quarters of a billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, means a few hundred euros out of every child's pocket. In the family, this sums up – a few hundred Euros, father, several hundred Euros. Someone's taking it out of your pocket, and people don't realize it. This is a lack of respect for European values. Where it leads, if things are going ideologically, much tells the case of which epilogue you have witnessed in these days, although it does not weigh so much the current government, but mainly the transition left over the past decade and a half. I would like to remind you that we once proposed a law in the SDS and later a constitutional law to deal with each case individually deleted, to limit it and then to settle what was really wronged. We always said that if guilt was done, let this be settled. Now things are going differently. At that time, I said that if it went as well as you did by rejecting all these proposals, it would end only in bidding on how high the damages would be. I was disgusted with a liar that there would be no compensation, because there could be no compensation – it's a magnetogram quote. The lady who said that is still among us today, and I can list many others. Where are we today? Right where I predicted. There's no more talk of such and different confessions or I don't know what. It's just compensation, and it's the height of it. At the time, I was once again insulted. I said that if it went like this, it could eventually happen that it would go for half a billion or even a billion euros, and it was said how cruelly I manipulate it, that it couldn't possibly be compensation, that it was a lie. Yesterday, Minister Virant said that if they were to succeed fully, it would be the end of what would be paid for, all of which, apparently, also for those who attacked us – a billion euros. He was talking about a billion euros. I didn't hear him being treated like a liar or anything. Today we are precisely where we have warned for 10 years that we will be, but for ideological reasons and because you do not respect European values, we have rejected individual treatment, and we are now witnessing the state in which we are. Do you know how many numbers you put together? At least two billion euros or more. That's a thousand euros out of every citizen's pocket, every citizen with children, and that's a thousand euros to his father, a thousand euros to his mother, a thousand euros to his daughter, a thousand euros to his son out of his pocket and thrown out the window forever. When we talk about these things, it's not talking about some past, it's talking about our future, which is worse than it could be because of disrespect for European values. That the situation is even worse – as you know, Murphy's law says that the natural development of things from bad to worse – proves the situation in this Parliament only a few days ago. I would like to point out that, a few months ago, with the opposition's votes, with our agreement, a law was passed that allowed companies to be helped in distress under two conditions — if they had a business plan to do so and if they provided adequate guarantees that the State's contribution, taxpayer's money, would be adequately protected. A few days ago, in the ruling coalition, in our opposition to this same House, you adopted a new law that expressly allows the payment of aid to those who are not able to survive on the market. It says in explanation that they are not able to survive on the market, please – without any guarantee! That the measure is full, it is the complete absence of European values, this conceptual confusion, unwittingly presented by one of the MPs of the ruling coalition, who exclaimed: "We are solving this in a capitalist way!" Please! Where in capitalism will you get money without guarantee and without a business plan? This has absolutely nothing to do with capitalism, but it has a lot to do with socialism and theft. When we talk about the absence and lack of respect for European values, in particular when it comes to the present power, we are talking about money, we are talking about the fact that we are all living worse than we could possibly have. This is the biggest fundamental development problem in Slovenia at the moment. In doing so, it should be quite a hiccup for former rebels who are likely only now to learn how they have been played in their own way. At a time when the economic situation of the former government under the leadership of the SDS was improving so rapidly that, as I said, the FAZ assessed this as a miracle, they were encouraged mediaically in all possible ways, and also paid to go to demonstrations of the so-called human uprisings. Now that people are actually living worse under pressure from new and higher taxes, no one is so encouraged and organized. Random? Yes, just as much as the FDV Senate's verdict that the government's master's degree was not plagiarism or that not every fake plagiarism was published just on the day that new taxes came into effect, which made everyone's life worse, and for the economy, these taxes will be literally devastating in the long term. That's how everyone was making jokes that day when they realized that every slutty fake wasn't a plagiarism yet, but a drop in standard of living, especially the weakest, but it went completely unnoticed. A VAT raise is one of the most unsocial taxes, you need to know that. It hits the weakest, but there's no ups, no demonstrations. The unionists just disappeared. A man is afraid that something happened to them. They've been talking before. Every week we had them on the roads, when the required profitability fell, when the interest rate fell, those we had to pay were lower. The rulers were thus able to bring about a complete chaos of values. I'm afraid there's going to be something else soon that'll make it even more obvious, but people will understand it too late. The 5 times higher tax burden on real estate from current real estate tax payments is forecast to lead to a new nationalisation of the poor. This happens if you do not respect European values, because in the original proposal, as it was supposed to be, some guards were not to be taxed for some basic property. Now everything should be taxed after a long and long time, which means that those poor people who are at the moment feeding their only assets, perhaps even from the past period, whether a small apartment or a house, are very likely to be able to pay such high tax burdens simply no longer. If European values are not respected, among which social justice is one of the fundamental values, then such solutions are proposed. That this is true is evidence of another chronic evidence that is not spoken of in public because it is taboo darkness. I've warned him a few times before, and I'm warning him again because he's absolutely amazing! Be careful, in the balance of the draft budget, money is taken for the education of children, money is taken from families, maternity mothers, health care is saved at all ends. While taking money to children, families, mothers, the office of the former president of the country is 5 times the amount, from an estimated 40,000 euros to about a quarter of a million euros! This is from the point of view of European values, with which such a solution is totally at odds if I am a very diplomatic, unconscious piece of shit. At this point, one of the problems that the European Union is alerting us to when it comes to respect for European values is also the inefficient judiciary. With that debate and the conclusions that have been adopted, we have not done much. We're gonna have to change a lot of things. Above all, it is a consistent implementation of European values. Previously, the minister himself said it would be necessary to change his mind, but he did not finish the sentence with a basic message. There will be a need to change the mindset towards consistent respect for European values, everywhere, including in particular in the judiciary. Today's economic inefficiency, and this is what the European Union specifically warns us about, putting an end to and desperately slowing down courts, to the surface of judicial policy, which means that in Slovenia it is forbidden to speak an unpleasant truth about one – a transitional left. You know that there is a legal judgment that someone who has been scolded and is irrefutablely proven is forbidden to do so because it can be offensive to him. What about his victims, who once violated their human rights? How is this in view of the resolutions we are talking about today? It probably does not need to be emphasized that this is completely contrary to European values. There is another line of reasoning — that it is permissible to lie about others. Of course, when it comes to SDS. As long as we have such courts when it is a fundamental constitutional principle that Europe respects as a value that we must all be equal before the law, things will not improve for so long. You can imagine how the potential foreign business partner, the investor, with all these obvious disrespects of European values, is accepting different distinctions for former Udba officials, naming streets by mass murderers, burning European flags, exclamation of slogans, that Europe is a collection of thieves and so forth, and participating, interestingly, a large part of the state summit, which we have been able to see on the Internet these days. Such a business partner, such a potential investor will think that something is wrong with this country, because it will be obvious to him that he does not respect the values he respects. No one abroad can understand that during the war for Slovenia a plane with the sign of a red star killed people, including foreigners, with cluster bombs, that foreign journalists from a neighbouring country were killed with red star tanks. Today, that part of the policy, which is extremely dual to European values, brings the same red star to the celebration of Slovenia's independence, which takes place in memory of the victims of the war for Slovenia! There's no one abroad who can understand that. Believe me, no. As a result, we are viewed as some strange extremity, and what is the problem — that is why we all live worse. For a country where they do not respect your values, in which you are not sure that your business share, your investment will be adequately protected by judicial protection and consistent respect for European values, you will avoid going far. This is an opportune loss that Slovenia has due to a lack of respect for European values. This opportunistic loss is significantly greater than the numbers that are evident and verifiable and which I have talked about before, but it is already there for a thousand euros of every citizen. That is why this is the fundamental development problem of Slovenia. In the eyes of foreign potential business partners and investors Slovenia, because of the disrespect for European values, becomes a very problematic and strange red extremity, where a handful of thieves are rich at the expense of the vast majority of the poor, and then these overcrowded poor people are sung in mockery by the Internations, and people are watching it. Even if in Slovenia people do not understand that those circuses pay horribly, with their lives, with their money, with the future of their children, everyone abroad understands that. Therefore, such countries are increasingly avoiding business partners and potential investors. This is also what Europe reminds us, but the only question is how much we want to listen to these warnings. The last time in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung was an article which, just from the point of view of European values, pointed out the inadequacy of the state of justice, disregarding the fact that people who were involved in questionable processes where there were obvious human rights violations in the past regimes do not belong to key places. But these people there are just insisting. This is also costing the country because it also puts a pebble in a mosaic of negative exotic images seen by a foreign business partner or investor. Everyone will, of course, go looking for a business partner and carry their money where they believe they respect its values, and the countries where they make fools of European values will avoid it for a long time. I therefore reiterate that the lack of respect for European values is a fundamental developmental problem that makes us all worse. At the same time, there are a number of issues that are usually used to address this problem. Let me mention for the end only two, because they were particularly exposed to committee debates – that public debate on judgments should not be admissible. Ladies and gentlemen, if we asked which constitutional lawyer with an international reputation, we would know that the public debate on judgments is a democratic standard, that it is perfectly normal for every legal judgment to be debated in the professional public, the general public, even in politics, and that this is even a measure of the democracy of each country. The Milk is typical of totalitarianism. In democratic countries, talk openly about everything. This is the basis of democratic dialogue. On the other hand, I must say that I was very disappointed when I was post-festum, because the committee debate was already over, and I read the Government's position on the proposed topic. Something has been written in the sense of resolution No. 1096 for the suspension of the resolution. The values set out in this resolution shall be permanent. If someone took a wrong look at the hands that were written there, these were the instructive deadlines by which time the individual countries, on the proposal of those who drafted this resolution, would settle these matters. Unfortunately, this has not yet happened in Slovenia in its entirety. So let me finish what I started, just in reverse order. Failure to respect European values in Slovenia is a reflection of the fact that the transition has unfortunately failed with us, and failure to respect European values is the fundamental development problem of Slovenia, which makes us all worse off than we could be.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The next presentation of the position of the Group of Members on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Group of Social Democrats, we asked ourselves, at the request of the SDS, to convene an extraordinary meeting, first of all, what can we hope for from the debate on the state of democracy in Slovenia. The question seems even more reasonable to draw attention to the threefoldity of this requirement, which grows from the text of the request and its explanations, the accompanying material and the proposed conclusions, and the very poor relationship between these three parts. The demand is based on the idea that transition to actual democracy in Slovenia has failed and therefore faces the challenge that we should face in the first years of the country's creation. As this has not happened in the SDS's view, they caution against the re-establishment of the totalitarian regime. They used Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096 on measures to eliminate the legacy of the former totalitarian communist regimes, in the opinion that the recommendations of the resolution have not been implemented in our country. The draft SDS conclusions, inter alia, state that the reduction in the welfare of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is due to the fact that the Republic of Slovenia has not followed the measures provided for in resolution No. 1096 therefore proposes to the Government to prepare urgent reforms that have not yet been implemented and approaches to integrated reform of constitutional and legislative mechanisms in justice. Social Democrats do not dispute the right of SDS to be defined in accordance with its political agenda and with our views on all social issues. We do not agree, however, that such views and views should be generalised at the level of all parliamentary parties. The views of one party cannot become the position of all, at least not ours. We are particularly different in terms of what could lead us out of the current crisis. Our view is not focused on the past and we do not attribute responsibility to the situations in which we find ourselves, only to our political competitors, but we link the crisis to domestic and international causes, conditions, as well as mistakes and shortcomings. We also do not take all the credit for carrying out reforms. Now, as regards Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096 in 1996. Once again, it is a misunderstanding of the status of resolutions, either the Council of Europe, the European Parliament or the UN resolutions. These are adopted documents which are already a recommendation in their own right and which act as a recommendation for each Member State and therefore do not need to be accepted in national parliaments. The resolution requiring chandeliers attached chandeliers to the behaviour of persons and events from 1 January 1980 to the collapse of communist systems in 1989. In addition, it is clearly stated that lustration legislation and all that the resolution entails should be adopted, implemented or implemented by 31 December 1999. We believe that the citizens and citizens and all those who have co-created and seriously pursued legislation, in particular the Constitution, have been grossly wronged. Slovenia has a modern constitution that incorporates a high standard of protection of human rights. The Constitution and before that, adopted in 1989 constitutional supplements, amendments to electoral legislation, letter of intent, basic charter and plebiscite are incorporated into the foundations of independent Slovenia as a rule of law. Before 1 May 2004, we have taken over the European acquis and have completed all the detailed reviews, whether we meet the democratic standards required of us by membership in the European Union. The European Parliament Resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism of 2 April 2009 is also mentioned. With regard to this resolution, the National Assembly adopted a declaration pointing, inter alia, to the fact that no political authority or political party has the exclusive right to interpret history and that the interpretation of history has been left to the historical profession. In this declaration, the National Assembly also found out what had already been done in Slovenia. Since this is in the most concise form in the declaration, I will quote: "In its operation after 1990, the Republic of Slovenia has already done much to correct the injustices that were committed to citizens and citizens of Slovenia between 1945 and 1990, specifically by adopting regulations that allowed the correction of the injustices to political prisoners, the conviction of post-war beatings, the detection and regulation of hidden graves of unlawfully murdered persons, the return after the war of unjustly confiscated property and many other acts. In doing so, she points out that it was easier to do so because its transition to a democratic political system of parliamentary democracy was established by the majority will of citizens and citizens on the legal path and without the necessity of violent change, which was possible, because even within the single party system, democratic changes that made it possible in the post-war period and especially in the 1980s and 1990s have been in place." Social Democrats do not claim that everything or that is done is enough, but we do not agree that nothing has been done and that it is now necessary to think again from the beginning. The demand deepens the differences between us and only spreads intolerance and ideological conflicts between us. In order to overcome these differences, it is not enough to call for unity from the time of independence, but rather to be well-meaning, forward-looking, overcoming shortcomings and taking action to get out of the crisis. All of this requires political consensus, not the political exclusiveism of one party, but, above all, the awareness that no one is above the law and that we are all subject to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. In the context of the general debate, the Government also has the floor, and the first one was asked by Dr. Senko Plicanič, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u22	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! What do we all have in common today? I am absolutely sure of what I am about to say – that we all want to do something good for our country. Is that right? Do you agree? I think we should come from this. How are we gonna do that? If it is the common desire of all of us to do something good for our country in all areas, in the field of rule of law, in the field of the economy, in all areas, how can this be achieved? I think two steps are important here. The first refers to knowing that our conduct should not be controlled by fear because fear leads to anger, anger leads to hatred, and suffering. If I look back on the past 20 years after Slovenia's independence, I can easily recognize that it is the fear and other feelings that I mentioned earlier, the one that prevailed in the political and also wider space, in particular the political space. If I go back to the first one. Not out of fear, it is out of trust that our conduct should be governed. The second is even more important, but it is true that what I am about to say cannot happen unless first there is an informed first – that our actions, our political actions, whatever else, are being addressed, not out of fear, anger and hatred, but out of trust. The second step, which is crucial, is that we, as a nation, as citizens and citizens, should be united as to what our goal is, where we want to bring this Slovenia. In all these years, and even since I've been in politics, I haven't noticed – and even when I talk to individuals and individuals very rarely to understand – that someone would find out or realize that this is one of the main problems. We don't even know where this boat is headed. We don't have a goal. You will probably agree with me that a goal is needed at the level of an individual in a private life. If you don't have a goal, it's hard to manage your private and professional life. It is necessary to have a goal when it comes to organisation, any organisation. When you run a company, another organization, you have to have a goal to take it to. We, as a country that needs the goal so much more, have no clear vision of where to take the country. I am sure that once we have achieved this, when we know the goal, this will be a common goal for all to be defined in a way that will be supported both by Parliament and by the wider Slovenian citizens and citizens, then two will happen. Firstly, all the debates to which most of the attention has been given today in the presentations of the groups of the Members, which refer to the past, including the future, to ideological issues – all of these debates concerning some of the pain that is in the soul, to the heart of a lot of people present, and also to all the debates related to the future, will then be possible. I think that before the common framework of action, this common framework that I started with – that we all have today a united desire for Slovenia's good – let us define what this means, what good it means, what this goal is, where to bring Slovenia in the field of economy and in all other areas, not just in the field of economics. Here we should focus very clearly, and then we could easily overcome all the contradictions that have limited us to a large extent over the past 20 years, that they have made a number of progress in a wide range of areas, including in the area at the forefront of the recommendations, in the area of the rule of law, we have not achieved any faster or not at all, and we are here today when we are talking again about the same things for years and years. What I place on all present and all those who listen to us is this thought. There will be no change if we hear another 20 years of the same debate from the same frameworks, which – I am deeply convinced of this – stem from the framework of hatred, anger, fear, etc. This way there will be no step forward, Slovenia will sink only deeper and deeper. Therefore, once again, I am convinced that we must find a common framework for this common desire, a common desire that we all have here — to help our country, our country, our peoples — and then to regulate all our actions, political, economic and all others on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Jože Tanko, the proposer, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Once upon a time, not so long ago, the words of the President of the Republic were valid. He was an authority, he was listened to, and you all said that the president's opinion, which was supposed to be non-political, should also be respected. Now we have the President of the Republic, who, at the time when the Prime Minister was Prime Minister, said that the country was being led by the uncles from the background, and he said in the campaign when he was specifically asked about it, "I will not name people, not because I am not brave, but because I am not stupid." From this statement, it appears from the President's authority that we have parallel authority in this country, that this authority is such that those who have opened this subject do not hope to even name themselves by name and surname. It is very difficult then to accept the words of the representative of the Government of Minister Pličanič that there is a rule of law in this country. She's not here. We have divisions, we have legislative, executive, judicial and any other, but none of these authorities can name those operating outside the system. I guess she doesn't. I doubt that the President of the State is the one who can protect persons working outside the rule of law or alongside the rule of law who work in addition to the executive branch, who have all the powers in this part. That something is wrong in this country also shows the statement made by the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, who, now that they have reviewed the banking system, speaks of grey eminences of banking, but not a single name in these grey eminences can be obtained. Who are the grey eminences of banking? The President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, who published this year's report on specific anti-corruption controls, speaks about it and refuses to say a word to, say, parliamentarians on the investigative committee about it. It's about hinting at some problem that's real, and it doesn't want to tell you who are the ones who run the country in this way. I think there's something really wrong in this country. Both statements, the fact that they are leading the country from behind and that they are leading the banking of the grey eminence of banking, are less than one year old. To date, despite numerous calls, public and whatever, we have not come up with a single name that we would say is a grey eminence of banking or that it is an uncle from behind. We're all aware of the problem in this country. In this country, we know that things do not work properly, and no one, not even the most responsible in this country, is willing to point out what we should be doing on official duty if they know that something is working wrong, outside the legal order. What Mr. Minister says on behalf of the Government is treason. KPK found that the banking system is managed by the grey eminence of banking and not by those employed there. If the eminents do so, they do not do so under legal regulations, by legal order, by banking rules, but otherwise. The President of the Republic spoke about the background uncles who run the country past the regular authorities. The President of the Republic and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which deals in such a pompous way with individual cases, are unable to disclose anyone. Is this a legal state? Are these the institutions of the rule of law that reject messages that refuse to explain who in this country is the one operating outside the legal framework? Until these things are made public until the matter is resolved until it is possible to determine who it is or in one case or another, until then there is no rule of law in this country. Until then, corruption and customerism have been in place in this country, and until then we have some so-called legal institutions that are their own intended purpose. We pay dearly for them. They send us various prospectuses on performance, the judiciary of their report, the prosecution of their report, the PKK's annual report. If these measures, which we are now talking about, are not, they are prospectuses. Until this matter is cleared up, unfortunately, we cannot talk about having some clever arrangement in this country. Until then, we will not be able to correct the foundations of this country, because this is at the very heart of it. It is obvious that the transition may have ended, and the fact is that it has failed. But the fact that this transition was unsuccessful is part of the problem. The second part of the problem that I think is even worse is that the accounts for the failed transition have not yet been paid. These bills are still coming, running. An account comes in every day with a new recapitalisation, with a new state intervention in the company without insurance. The higher taxes proposed by the Government with a balance or lower social rights are an account for this failed transition. These things are built every year, and each year they are worse — this is the next problem. Every year, social cuts are higher, every year tax burdens are higher, every year interventionism in these state systems is less transparent. That's what we're talking about. The topic that some of you have opened about the fact that today's debate is lost, that time is wasted, that no new job will be created from this, is likely to be missed. Every day when nothing will be done in this area, nothing will be revealed, nothing will be processed, new problems will arise, new costs for the country and new jobs lost. The account coming into the state budget and, as a result, into certain family budgets, particularly in the social field, is enormous. Look at the elevators and so-called incisions coming in. These cuts did not result from the transition. These cuts are not due to the fact that we did things right, that we did them right, but they are due to the fact that we did these things wrong and otherwise than standards. Unfortunately, as I said, this matter will not end. There's one more thing that bothers me. Whenever the topic we are talking about today opens, the majority coalition discussion is focused on directing the view forward, as if nothing had happened to this moment or to this moment. This is a known password from a failed transition period. "Let's not look back, let's look forward to development, in 2000," was once said. Or in 2020, what happens then. Okay, but if that's the paradigm we have to follow, then no law we're adopting needs criminal provisions. Not one! Because criminal provisions are in law to suspend or punish past acts. This is in this legal order that we have, whatever it is, so done. It is similar in other legal order. I think it is necessary to seriously consider whether the institutions of this country that we have, whether those that have opened certain problems, such as the current President of the Republic and the former Prime Minister or the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, are at the level of the tasks that we expect from them in the rule of law, whether they are just some marketing, pyar moves to open or avoid a certain thing. I think we should get a very concrete and direct answer here, but unfortunately we don't get these things here in some way and they're shifting and moving away. I don't know why it takes so much evasiveness to determine the responsibility of some. I don't know why. Banka Slovenije, for example, is a key regulator in the banking area. Never before has it been possible to obtain any information on the state of our banking system, not in an open session, not in a closed session here, not in an investigative commission, not with their newsletters published. All this time, however, things have been happening permanently that have absolutely nothing with the legal state in banking, when some have received loans in this way, others in a substantially different, substantially more expensive, some with insurance, some without, some after half interest or even lower, others with full and something else along with, etc. Neither of the Governors of Banka Slovenije has sanctioned any so-called top banker in our banking system, anyone. However, the money was invested in the banking system extremely large. I think in this debate that is ahead of us, we should draw attention to these things. To warn and require those who have carried out certain audits in banking or in the economy to take appropriate action. I do not think the Commission can deal with the biggest individual problem in the Slovenian system, banking problems and recapitalisations in such an easy way to prevent corruption. The grey eminence of banking is the answer. The Commission, if it has already undertaken this review, we have to find out what the routes were, where they went wrong and who was responsible for these things. The same applies to Banka Slovenije. It is not the answer to the problems that this country has, that it does not interfere with any of these systems, but that everything is done to protect itself. In our largest bank, there was a change in the supervisory board, where some foreign overseers were — probably just so that things wouldn't open up and things wouldn't go independently. There is much more to be said and probably will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Get ready. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u26	Your Honor! Social Democrats have not felt the need to convene this meeting, and we do not think there is any need in this situation. Today, the Council of Europe resolution has been presented in a way that describes all those who have come to the European Union from some other systems as being extremely dangerous to democracy in the European Union. In fact, there's a danger elsewhere. I see danger in globalisation, in the exceptional profits of monopolistic societies, in the exploitation of the population, in the reduction of social rights. The result of European policy is Spain, Greece, Portugal, etc. Allocation of wealth – you know that in Slovenia it is already distributed to whom the infrastructure will belong, to whom telecommunications, to whom energy, etc. That's familiar. This is dangerous for Europe, not communism, which has long been gone. It is evident that democracy is a waste of time for coordination with the social partners. The capital claims that in many cases democracy is responsible for the riots occurring across Europe. I think these grades are very wrong. After 22 years, when we have our own country, we still talk about communism. I don't know what kind of communism. Communism has long been gone, and it's gone, gentlemen, it's been socialism. Communism in Europe is absolutely no problem. This is not what Europe is dealing with, and you are barking and barking. For 22 years we have lived in a democratic, free country, and it is beautiful. We can't appreciate that. I think we all know that some things have moved, and that such barons and barons have toothbrushes and pajamas in the travellers and are waiting in line to go to jail. That's good, and that's what leads you to be dissected and dissected today. About totalitarian symbols. In Goriška there are still many houses that are painted with the inscription "Here is Yugoslavia", "Healing Tito", with the red star. If that bothers you, come down and clap it, but be careful where you turn, so that you do not run in the opposite direction to Piave. You can't take these people from the coastal anthem of the Upstairs, these people who fought in the IX. You can't take a red star that has nothing to do with the red star that JLA's aggressor army had on its hats, and that was quickly replaced with the decks because it was superfluous with them. This wasn't the star that the fighters were wearing for us speaking Slovenian here today. How will you associate with priests who played a special role in Goriška, Primorska, and ban all of this? You think you have that kind of power? Not even close. We all know that postwar killings are a big black spot in our history. The first president of the country apologized. In the party of the Social Democrats, at the time we were called different, we condemned all these acts at the congress, but that doesn't depend on anything. There can be no result, and you will continue your dissecting for another 20 years, but please do not, not young generations that have nothing to do with JLA, with patriots, with partisans, with postwar killings, burden with our stupidity. It's history. It is not possible to change it, as a colleague from New Slovenia said, and it must be taken as it is. We cannot be proud of her in all respects, but in many we can. A German newspaper was mentioned several times today. It's normal. You need to know that Angela Merkel was very much in favour of Sanader, and he went to prison to support Janez Janša, who also has problems, and that Germany must somehow prove to the world that there is no democracy in us, that justice does not work, that we have a lousy economy. From time immeasurably, the German nation was convinced that we would be slaves to such and other ones. I object, and I don't think this is the right way. Let's join forces, let's stop splitting up! When we get out of here in the lobby, there's no difference between us, we talk, we smile, and I feel some friendship. Let's stop making scenes in the media about who he was, who he was, who he was. The one with the butter on his head, black, green, white, red, anyone, waiting for the right hand – thank God things have moved – and the rest of us save the economy. Because if today's session is watched by a young intellectual who's been unemployed for five, six years, he thinks of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Katarina Hotchevar. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready and the mag behind him. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye! History is the mother of wisdom, but only the wise can learn from it. Only the wise can critically assess the teachings of history, remember the past with respect, leave the past behind, and draw strength and challenges for the future from these experiences. The future of difficult challenges lies ahead, so we must focus our efforts on finding answers and agreements that will improve the lives of our future generations. That is why, in recent years, I have been impressed by the article about 36-year-old David, a young man who does not see the future in Slovenia. An article about a young man who gave up on his homeland. He gave up on those who have been leading Slovenia for 20 years. An article on this man from the Green Land below the Alps concluded: "David will no longer be in Slovenia at the latest next year. When he earns money for an airline ticket and learns the basics of English, he'll find happiness in the country of kangaroos." This, respected colleagues, should be our first concern in this temple of democracy. When I joined the National Assembly as a Member, I had a bit of naive expectations, and I thought that we would be dealing with the most solutions that would enable a better and better future for the present and, above all, for future generations. You must therefore understand my limited enthusiasm for the discussions on the 1996 resolutions. Will the discussions on the mistakes made in the past century reduce the rate of unemployment? Will they enable young people to study more easily and better? Will the crops for farmers be any better? Are we going to increase the competitiveness of the economy? On the basis of such discussions, will we be able to reform the health system? However, we must admit that in 20 years, independent Slovenia has not been successful in all the stories. A series of chapters after independence are blurry, vague, dark, and rather embarrassing to us than to pride. I agree that it is a mistake to face problems and start dealing with them. Above all, it is time to pour ourselves a clean wine and set new goals. I propose that we free our country from the concept of balancing and the burden of such a singing national interest. Let us enable more successful creation without obstacles. Let us allow young people today who go abroad for knowledge and opportunities to gain this knowledge abroad, but to return home with it and create a better tomorrow in the green land under the Alps. Let us give people the opportunity to take advantage of their potential and, above all, give young people a reason to walk proudly around the world and say with their heads raised: "Slovenia is my country." Resolution No. I read 1096 carefully. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has placed the legacy of the old ideologies of fascism at our heart, national socialism, at our disposal. Their place should be replaced by freedom, equality, tolerance, respect for diversity and human responsibility for fellow humans and their own actions. Democracy and liberal values can take us to a better tomorrow. The question is whether we are able to leave the past behind and focus on the future. Are we Members, who are first among the same, able to shoulder the responsibility entrusted to us and entrusted to us by the people? Colleagues and colleagues, it is time to leave history behind, to put an end to fruitless debates and to map a new path into a better, democratic and more just Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. I look forward to such populism talks as the present one. The answer to what you are proposing and what you are predicting is a budget rebalance and a package of accompanying laws. There is no law for a better future that you are proposing, which does not bring about either a reduction in social transfers or higher taxes or a reduction in investments and an increase in debt. Mrs Katarina, it would be good if, in addition to presenting this in this way, what we are going to consider in 3 or 4 days in the National Assembly followed what you said. What you're proposing means that only more Davids who are going to be looking for money to leave this country, because the tax burdens you're proposing are going to increase enormously, so that there will only be more who want to leave this country and only more who will be deprived. The new tax burdens you are proposing do not bring any employment. A higher rural property tax means the closure or accelerated death of agricultural households. Uniform penalties, for example, when one log is more expensive than one illegal bank transaction for 20 million, will not contribute to this either. Reducing social transfers in maternity care and elsewhere will not help people to feel that it is a country that works for them. I wonder why no one asks how to address the reasons that force every time the government to propose such measures. Where are the reasons? What must be done to move things around in this area? Do we need to disclose, I don't know, the grey eminence of banking and take appropriate action? Is it necessary to relieve those who have unjustifiably acquired property in the processes of failed transition, financial and physical? Should, I don't know, remove those who run this country, as Mr. Pahor said, past the current government? You're obviously not ready to do any of this in this coalition. No one among you is willing to fight to eliminate the causes of the consequences that should then be proposed. I think that's a big problem. No cut, which means balance for the country, is ready to be removed, certainly not in the public sector. There's something else about the media. One of his colleagues was very critical of a German - speaking newspaper. I think the state of democracy and pluralism in Germany is much better than us. The state of media space is also much more diverse and plural than we do. I don't think there's any suspensions or censors like we do in the media if they don't publish anything. With us, you can't report the current power on TV Slovenia and not as much as you would like. You can't even paint anything in the National Assembly. This is not a 21st century concept, but the consequences that we have with us from the 20th century are severe. All these consequences, which we do not undo, or the causes that we do not eliminate, are only exasperating. Every time there is less for social welfare, every time there is less for jobs and development, every time there is less for investment. Every time there is more to be paid to the pension allowance because there are no contributions — for the health care department it has appeared — and probably for something else. By doing so, you will not build a bright future or a bright path in this country. The things that cause what we have to recapitalise and pay on a permanent, permanent basis need to be eliminated. It's probably a measure. The problem is that the institutions that we have for this, either individually or collectively, do not do enough in this area or do not want to do enough, are moving. That's the problem. One more thing. If this system is to be reversed so that it develops in the right direction, it is necessary where any judgements are taking place, and this is in this chain from the investigation to the conviction that things are going very well and quickly. I doubt that many things can be resolved only by amending legislation. Many are just a person who has a function that manages a system in one way or another, can, by law, be able to act quickly and successfully, but can be the main obstacle to the implementation of this law. What Mr Pličanič says – some of it is also in his hand or his jurisdiction, something in the government, something in some other. There are certain things that need to be drawn in this area. It cannot be said that with someone who does not want to be objectively responsible for problems in a system, he will sign a commitment to improve this system and expects that this person will carry out this objectively if he does not want to be responsible. That's the highlight of the show.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues! When I was preparing for this meeting today, I was thinking about something to talk about. Is it better to focus on economic issues and ask why we have not developed a real market economy in Slovenia, why we still have an agreed economy? Is it more important to focus on historical themes? In the end, colleague Hotchevar said we should leave history behind. Although we are both members of the younger generation of politicians, in this part I cannot agree with it, because I feel that we are constantly being shared by the unresolved history, creating problems for us, and this is the result. If we leave history alone, we won't clear it. This means that the divisions will remain forever. I think this is going to keep us going forever, and that's why I don't think that's the right approach. History is neither black nor white, and one of the biggest problems in Slovenia is that there are individual policies on this or those sides that paint history black or white, which highlight positive things, but forget all the negative things. Surely our great division today and our great problems today are somehow responsible for the injustices that have occurred in the past and that have never been corrected. I will say in concrete terms what I believe the burden of the Slovenian nation and our society as well as that we cannot breathe with all our lungs as we would like. If you're telling your family not to count the bones, believe me, they feel terrible. The fundamental right that their relatives deserve is a decent and civilized burial. Those who were imprisoned in the previous regime – if you talk about how the former system of socialism was the best, the most democratic in the East, the most democratic among totalitarian regimes, believe me, they also feel terrible and not the best, and that they certainly deserve rehabilitation. There are many who, because of the previous regime, were bullied in the workplace, in their village, in the city and elsewhere just because of, say, their religious, ideological affiliation. Even these people find it difficult to tell and tell them that they should forget about all of history and move on because they simply have a sense of inadequacy, a sense of hurtfulness. If all these old injustices had been corrected, surely today and in recent years, there would have been no reason to further deepen our division based on history. What's going on? It is happening that those who have been affected by the previous regime, from us, from the rightfulness of politicians, demand inadmissibility, the fight for rights and truth without any indulgence, the fight against totalitarian symbols and the fight for lustration. On the other hand, those who lived in the previous regime demand a slightly more comfortable life. On the other hand, they demand the defence and protection of all the things that were obtained by the revolution — the name of the streets, because this is how the consciousness is strengthened. There are also some inappropriate statements of war killings, etc. I just want to show that one side and the other require eternal persistence in the conflict of politics as such, because history is not cleared and injustices are not resolved. We could start with a very simple word — sorry — and possibly experience the trauma of all these victims. I'd like to read you the thought that Doc wrote down. Dr. Katarina Compan Erzar, who said: "The problem of prolonged denial of trauma and intimidation and long-term life in stress and fear that could not be resolved causes a gradual and long-term loss of true sense of self, for others, and narrows down, I stress, narrows human action and creativity and flexibility." When we do not eliminate injustices, we receive wounded generations from day to day. That's the one thing we should be worried about. I will conclude by making use of today's debate to discuss what else we can do, to correct old injustices, and to make it clear to people that we do not want new injustices and new revenge. If today's debate is used only and only to continue to highlight each of our stories and to paint our part of history, black and white history, then it is likely that today's debate will be another one of the lost debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mag. Katarina Hotchevar asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u34	Apparently, both colleague Tonin and colleague Tanko did not understand me very well, and I would like to explain. Initially, I began my debate with the need to learn from history, to remember it with respect and to accept challenges and a new path to the future. In addition, I would like to point out that, as I am aware that injustices have been committed in this century, they have also been committed in Slovenia alone, probably on the basis of certain laws. But for these laws, Mr. Tanko, I didn't vote. As far as the budget is concerned, let us be honest and admit that neither the left nor the right, nor the rising government can give people what they do not have. With the rebalancing and the budget we have taken in this mandate both in the previous government and there is probably no other way, and there is also a second year of rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Pavlisič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Is the new government in preparation? Upstairs, we heard, or how? Yeah, that's what you said. Let's go in order. Perhaps he would upgrade a little there or the part where the leader of our parliamentary group stopped talking about matters and would refer to what the representatives of Positive Slovenia have said. Somehow it was said that legally, politically and symbolically we did not come out of the past system that this was our claim, and finally Mr Möderndorfer kindly invited us when he said, "We are able and ready to look forward. Are you?" These are perfect conjectures, at least as far as his last sentence is concerned. To talk about the view ahead and to stand in the Stažice together with the entire Slovenian political summit, the fifth songs that the Slovenian nation shares, and to applaud everything that was said to be anti-capitalist, anti-imperialist, etc., while at the same time borrowing money from the same people – this is a great diversion. That Slovenia has not legally clarified the situation that it is still legally where it was in 1990, there is no need to speak specifically. There's been a lot of talk about this in the last few days. Our judiciary – others have also assessed this, not just us, as you know – in 1990 and in the time after that year, its past behavior has changed nothing. That is why today we have a judiciary that is most expensive in Europe and the least effective in Europe. Today, on Jože P. Damian's blog, he says it's a disgrace, as he wrote, and he's ashamed to live in a country that has such a judiciary. There's not much more to be done here. That we did not symbolically break with the past, it is also clear. That's what we see. I don't mind if someone in their house has a red star on their clothes in their closet or anywhere else. The problem is not there, and the problem is not in the Primors and their houses, which sounds so good, but the problem is official national celebrations. We invite these people and these symbols to the National Assembly and give them equal status with those we have replaced in 1991 and let down before Parliament. Now we invite them here. The problem is that we invite them to other official national celebrations. The problem is that the entire left-wing political option worships these symbols and takes us velvetically, as I say, back to the system that was before 1990. Let me further touch political monopolism. Very few of you are here, but at least those of the coalition or the hard part of the coalition didn't stop these things. In 1991, the left political option mostly changed clothes, slightly different, as it is called, went to the elections and was in power until 2004, if we forget those 4 months of the Bajuk government. When she lost the elections in 2004, she changed her dress and created the Reals, and the face was the same or almost the same. The story was repeated in 2011. This is a typical example of monopolism at political level, a typical example of monopolism and re-dressed individuals who, in front of the capital and the media, create this country's policy, and nothing else. What happened then? A couple of uncles – and pigs, we don't need to be attributed because you invented it there on the opposite side – change, make masquerade, go to the Ljubljana municipality. Pom-pom-pom in the media and victory is here. This can only happen in some banana republic and not in European countries, at least two months before the elections. Since then all the incompetence that has been shown to protect the media, that someone is unable to negotiate coalitionly, happens what has happened. What I want to draw attention to in this context is political, media, judicial, and especially so-called civil movements. What is the difference between the time we live today, July 2013, and December and January, which are behind us, December 2012 and January 2013? We had demonstrations in December and January. They were called the human uprising. Official organizers – unknown. Then they found out a little bit, showed up a little bit in public. Who were they, anyway? Among them were those who lost the elections who did not come to Parliament. Who do we have next? Among them we have veteran organisations that have lost the monopoly that Minister Vizjak has just abolished from the point of view of their funding. That's where we find all the veteran organizations. Then we find a lot of other people who were there, especially unionists. There we find Mr. Klavora, Mr. Beznik, Mr. Filipič and someone else. What was going on back then? What did that government do? That government, ladies and gentlemen, did not lower wages. Today you're lowering them. That government didn't threaten to cut pensions. You're doing it. That government didn't raise VAT. You're doing it. That government didn't raise cadastral incomes. You do it or you prepare it. That government didn't talk about the property tax. You're preparing it. That government didn't talk about the crisis tax. You're preparing him for as long as I know. That government did not lower social transfers, at least at Saturday's correspondence sessions. You did it. That government didn't lower maternity leave. You're preparing this matter. But there's no demonstration. Isn't that interesting? Why are Mrs. Hanžek, Semolič, Strukelj, Klavora, Beznik, Filipič, etc. Satisfied? Do you have to have a doctorate or should you have a college? You don't have to have anything. You need a healthy farmer's mind to understand. Why do they now sign an agreement with you on lowering wages, rather than demonstrations? It is clear – they have achieved their goals with the left political option in the clutches of you. If you changed in 1990, in 1996 you bought votes on our side, and then somewhere else you even got them, in 2004 and 2011 you changed, now you even came to power with the help of these people. What do these people write down – quote: "The president of veteran associations, Fat Gorenak and Violent Plitschnik [[Where did he come from, where he's been?]] Threatened by penalties and state repression. Dear friends, comrades and comrades, the beast that crawled through Europe and our places is here again. He crawls around our homes, our homes, Europe. Our ancestors showed us how to deal with this beast." We have to kill, don't we? This still hangs on the website of the Association of Fighters. The author is Mitja Klavor, the youngest Slovenian pensioner, about 40 years old when he retired and today the secretary of the union of fighters. By the way, where I live, the fighter secretary is 1986, so we know what kind of fighters we're talking about. These monopolies are those, especially the political monopoly, and today's situation and your presence here in the hall also point to this – you are not interested. You're not interested in that. You're interested in money, power and privilege. That's the problem. This has to be stopped. We do not look back, as your court journalists write today — many of them, you can look at what they write — but we are looking ahead. However, these monopolies must be eliminated. That's our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u37	Mr. Jerko Chehovin, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u38	In implementing Mr Gorenak, I think that this debate really proves that it is not going in the right direction. Nameing some people, including, say, the first President of the country and the first President of the Assembly of the State as masquerades and creations is not only unworthy, but also extremely inappropriate for Parliament. I ask you to hold back and watch your language for a moment, because you're also a former minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We will take into account your procedural proposal. I also wanted to point out, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, that we should stick to the subject and not discuss it in any offensive form. The words said, "What we have to do – kill," – this seemed extraordinary to me. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I know, but the thing is, today's debate is at a meeting of the National Assembly. [[advertising from the hall]] I was listening. I'm not a masquerade, as I was called. So I ask that we stick to the rules of procedure, correctness, courtesy – all of us. You want a word as a proponent, Mr. Tanko? You want a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Procedural question or warning. The debates we have are likely to allow the use of documents that are available on the websites of civil society institutions or organisations and what quotation from this may not be a problem. Not particularly in the context of the debate to be held in the National Assembly. But the problem is that every time a debate hits on some icons that you're protecting in some way, it's always caused by some strange revolt and attack. Never again. I suggest that all these things that are happening today, and which you, the President, will have to do, be measured in the same way with the same vats. It's not just one issue, but it can be anything or nothing. In the case of Mr Gorenak, I do not think that there have been any great discreets here since the discussions of some colleagues, particularly on the other hand. It went wide and as far as it went, but it was argued on the basis of data. If anyone wants to object to data and claims, bring a document or say that something is not true, but not in general about what is going on and how it should be done. I suggest you're equal to everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavlisic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Respectable democratically elected High Council! Whether Slovenia may be governed by a single-minded association, we can see how much time each party has spent in the government, including the first Slovenian government forward. When interpreting, I took some artistic freedom and joined the former SKD in Novi Slovenije. I simply ignored my colleagues on the left because they had not yet been in the government before the current government, but I did not hope to combine them with LDS. 62% of the time since the establishment of the first to last Slovenian government has been spent in the government by the Slovenian People's Party. Nova Slovenija, along with the SKD, was more in the government than in the opposition, almost 51%. Most of the opposition's work was done by the SDS, but they were in the government for 41% of the time. The absolute winner is a 68% pensioner, followed by an LDS with 67% of government time. They've already gone to the cemetery of history. Social Democrats spent more time in opposition than in positions; they were in the government about 48% of the time. From this point of view, it is very difficult to say that one party, one party, would have an exclusive political influence in Slovenia. The longest term was the first Janša government, which can be described peacefully as the most stable government under this criterion. Another Drnovskov followed, where the then SKD insisted on LDS to the end and left SDS early and then SD. Governments did not just put it together in a balanced way, nor did they abandon it in a balanced way. Democracy is not just a parliament and it is not just a government – it is not. Democracy comes from the word demos — people. Customers should only be the tools of people associated with similar ideas to realize these ideas. More direct democracy is certainly the right way, but social processes are going slower than many, and so do I. I don't doubt that's gonna happen. Modern technologies are opening up new opportunities, but it is necessary to give time and innovations an opportunity. E-elections are such a novelty. Technological progress enables new services, more direct influence and allows wider search for a solution. In Slovenia, however, the current restrictions are not technological, they are in the head. In the economic field, socialism took about 40 years to go bankrupt. The economy of national interest or of paide capitalism, as some say, took 20 years for the same effect – bankruptcy. The processes of national interest that led to paide capitalism were not random. The solid core of the old economists is through the privatisation process, especially by failing to complete this and subsequent changes, as well as good ideas fraud and elimination. Unfortunately, we needed the crisis to reveal all the misery of this kind of action, but with the confirmation of the divestment of 15 investments the country has taken a step towards greater normalisation in this area, and I believe that the processes in this direction will continue successfully. I do not wish to comment on judgments that have not yet been or have not yet been written, but I would mention the Constitutional Court's decision to designate Titus's road, in which the Constitutional Court stated: "The fact that Joseph Broz Tito was the life President of the former SFRJ means that his name is to the greatest extent symbolized by the former totalitarian regime. The reintroduction of the street named after Josip Broz Titus as a symbol of the Yugoslav communist regime can therefore be interpreted objectively as a recognition of the former non-democratic regime. In the Republic of Slovenia, where the development of democracy and a free society based on respect for human dignity has started with a break with the previous regime, any power increase in the communist totalitarian regime is unconstitutional. In the case at hand, the name of the road after Josip Broz Tito is not a name that would have been preserved from the previous regime and today would only be part of history." This clearly shows that at least at the very top of the judiciary there is no way we can talk about the fact that they did not break the legacy of the totalitarian regime. They did, and they also made it clear to those who, to the former regime, cultivate affection that goes beyond a measure of legitimate nostalgia. The fact that we are still at a time of unanimity does not, in my view, hold serious judgment, but I cannot help but feel that some people are not disturbed by the fact that ownership is concentrated. It bothers them not to concentrate on them. We would be delighted to accept the government of one party alone, that it is only theirs, and that if the courts were to make the right decision — as it is theirs alone — it would not be a pleasure to see the end. Democracy is not on the left, democracy is not on the right. Democracy is ready to work with one or the other to increase the welfare of all of us. There is no single mind in Slovenia, but we have absolutely too much bipolarity – ours against yours, red against black, dotted against the tracks. It's not the right way, young people don't care. They are interested in what we will do so that everyone in Slovenia can live their dreams. We need a wide array of different views that we turn through the democratic process into the best solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Behind him is Mrs Marija Plevčak and then Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u44	The first reflection in this kind of debate, which is being tried in the National Assembly, and even more so in Slovenian politics, to inculcate the Slovenian Democratic Party, is that I do not want to participate in this debate. But this reflection, which I have been using so far, is wrong because I think it is my job, however, to try, together with the sanity forces in this country, to resist poisoning, to resist forced interpretations of history as explanations of why Slovenia is in the position it is in today. It is necessary to resist this constant insurrection of hatred, which creates new and new divisions based on the old, to desire surviving patterns of historical divisions that have marked the course of our history. I'm not naive to think it's reckless. This is a very clear strategy that builds on a familiar path. By moving the focus of Slovenian policy away from real problems, real reasons and, above all, finding as many real solutions as possible for our position – moving this focus on things that share, which have no rational link with Slovenia's weakness, with the small possibilities of our people in this crisis – this policy is to be definitively forgotten in order to create the ground for the elections to be re-elected only by those who are the most zealous and most confident. The problem with Slovenian politics is its low participation, the fact that a handful of zealous members of one party, the other party, decide on the election result. For too long, we have maintained this non-reciprocality because we have done too well in this society and we have not cared about the issues that are the central issues of this society and which must be of interest to each of our citizens. Only then will we be able to move on to what we should do in this Parliament and in Slovenian politics, especially here, in this Chamber as the heart of democracy, we need to deal with the question of what our national interests are, what our national objectives are, what we can do, and what we need to shape as a new consensus for this nation and for this country. For too long, we no longer have our national objectives. Since 2004, we have been wandering in a conceptual vacuum that is subject to rapid conceptual changes in terms of political changes after the elections. We have no way, we have no direction to go, and therefore we are subjected to changing the course of our boat after each election! No wonder we're standing still. Mrs. Eva Irgle, don't start with this: we don't, we don't, we don't! On purpose, I speak in a way that recognizes the responsibility of you and us! I'm not going to generalize. It's my responsibility. We or I are not able to fill this hall with the inspiration and goals that this country should pursue! This situation has been happening for too long, so we are standing still, and the situation on the ground is causing a setback. Because we're poisoning ourselves with a nonessential. Let us forgive what has happened because there is a need to understand the real and rational, emotional reasons on one side or the other. Let us accept that we live in a democratic country, that this country will be democratic and strong only if we fill this institutional framework with the democratic will of the people and do not mock the people who have gone to the streets and say that they want to take the fate of this country into their own hands! Thank God and finally! Many times, many on the left and right have ridiculed the uprising spirit in this country, but it is legitimate, and I welcome it, and I think that the best news that has happened in Slovenia after a very long time is that it has awakened people and shown that there is a will in this country not to allow things to be done the way they were done, based exactly on the artificial divisions that politics, in particular part of Slovenian politics, is based on, and I must point out with my finger, it deliberately engages in this debate for clear political purposes, not because of the interests of this country and not because of the interest of this nation. Thank you, and I'm sorry if I was so thrilled again. But this debate is infuriating. It pisses us off in this hall and pisses people off in front of TV sets, and that's right. Maybe we need more anger in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Jožef Jerovšek, prepare the mags. Ivan Vogrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The fundamental question that we must ask ourselves today in this debate, and that is the fundamental purpose of this debate, is why we are in such a position to look like a hopeless crisis. Why did Slovenia happen what happened – that the entire young generation, the educated people, do not have a perspective in this country? We need to ask ourselves why this is not as drastic and bad as the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia. In 1996, the Council of Europe gave guidance and recommendations to the table in a resolution on the necessity of decommissioning the heritage of communist systems. In point 3, he wrote down what has already been repeated several times, and it is still necessary to repeat it a thousand times, because we know that our media will not repeat this and restore it. If these systems are not dismantled, there will be an oligarchy instead of democracy, corruption instead of the rule of law and organised crime instead of human rights. All three facts happened on the case of Slovenia. When we compare that Poland and the Czech economy have economic growth and conjuncture today, we ask ourselves whether in Poland, in time after communism, General Jaruzelski, the former President, or in the Czech Republic, whether new people, new orientations and democracy have taken power, or whether there is an oligarchy like in Slovenia. In Slovenia there are oligarchies, monopolies in the media, banks. A drastic example is what happened in the banks where they were, I must say, exclusively extended the role of oligarchs who ruled and still rule. The bad bank should be in operation now, but the European Commission is said to have already sent unreliable data to Brussels so that the bank hole will be significantly larger than it was shown. That is why I now reject what you always throw away — when there were most credits. The then government had no idea because they had not given her the data, and at the same time the Bank of Slovenia had no control over the granting of credits. Accept the fact that at least 90% of the bank and state robbery is due to the operation of the heirs of the communist system, who are still ruling and controlling from the background today. Colleagues and colleagues! For this reason, it is funny that, on behalf of a party, a colleague earlier said that the proof of democracy in Slovenia was the creation of two new parties, one of which won in one month and the other came to Parliament. This is proof that the oligarchic forces have absolute power, for Positive Slovenia was founded by the heirs themselves, the active heirs of the previous system, and it is not surprising that we are in this situation. Even such people who were in the cabinets when orders for mass killings, for mass crime, went through their desks. People like that who have no empathy for humanity. Are we going to move forward with this development, or are we going to agree here today that we have a goal when Minister Plitzenic says that there is no goal and that we do not know what we want? We have to ask ourselves, Quo exercises Slovenia, and that is what we are asking today. I must tell the Minister that if the current government has no purpose, and it seems that it does not have it – I must commend the gentlemen in the Civil Gazette for having a clear view, a new Member, that you are no longer a post-communist monolith, that there are also some lions who are thinking democratically. If the current coalition has no purpose, if it is not aware of the importance of this debate, when we are talking about the future, when we are talking about why we have not received the warnings, and when the 1996 forecast has come true on the body of the Republic of Slovenia and on our people, then I have to ask myself whether the current coalition is compacting with this oligarchy. We know that one of the parties is led oligarchically by the Ljubljana Magistrate. When this resolution was in Parliament – if you were reading magnetograms today, you should be ashamed of what you said, why it is not acceptable for Slovenia. Because you turned her down. I must commend the then President of Parliament, today the President of the Republic, for having at least partly realized that he was aware that we should break the communist system, that he would then say that he would prepare a declaration on decommissioning. He prepared it inside his client and received 5 votes for and 85 against at the SD 5 conference. That was about the same relationship. All those 85 buckets today in these customers with the same totalitarian view forward. This view — if you are not prepared to acknowledge and give up today — will be much worse in this country in 10 years. All the next generations will have to move out. Such a route leads to North Korea as a pattern of development. For these people today are extremely powerful capitalists, heirs to communism. In the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and other countries, they did otherwise. When it was first written down why the index of human development two or three years ago when Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia preceded us for the first time, academic Tina Hribar said: "I was an opponent of lustration, but now I know that there was a great mistake that Czech, Polish and Slovak had preceded us because the same people were destroying this country and plundering themselves." That's what Tina Hrybar said. But you are not able to realize today that you must give up such a pattern of development, that we are today talking about the future, the people of God. Earlier, Mr Brulc has made a big, ugly attack on Germany if Germany, as the former occupation state, or as he said, has to prove to the world that there is no democracy in us, that Germany proves that we are an immature people. This hatred for Germany, which has done denaccination, is one of the few countries that has cleared up totalitarianism – this hatred appears to me here because Germany and Chancellor Khol are the ones who have the credit for our independence. This bitterness over our independence to blame Germany today – thus harming Slovenia further because Germany will be much more sceptical about supporting Slovenia. This is on the same line as the Ambassador's candidate. Unfortunately, Angela Merkel will win again in Germany. Think about it, future diplomat. You are ruining the possibility of good cooperation with Germany, which we urgently need. This is a democratic state today, not totalitarian. There they dismantled totalitarian traces, but unfortunately we did not in Slovenia. You, who are so eloquently saying that you are the heirs of this communism, that many have not yet given up – even that Germany is in good relations with us. Do you even want to – I don't know if you want us to re-engage in North Korea? That's what it looks like when you perform. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, once again, this is the debate on the future of our young people, that they will have the opportunity to get out of this with the patterns you are defending, you have defended them in 1996, when the Council of Europe said, "If you do not do this, you will have an oligarchy, you will have corruption over the rule of law and you will have organised crime over human rights." We've got it all. You are in favour of prolonging this situation, because your people who finance your customers have carried out this negative development of Slovenia and are suffering the people of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, Mr. Bevk is ready for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u48	Respectable colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens! I agree with those who say today is an important day. It's a big day because my children will be here in half an hour to see Parliament. This is an important event for me. For everyone, the importance is different. Let's get to serious issues. Today, Slovenia is again where it once was — at a promising start or perhaps a little behind it. The original sin is insistence on a sophisticated development model due to lack of vision. My friend Willi Kovacič, who managed to collect some 10,000 signatures, said: "Slovenian politicians are taking Slovenian citizens to group suicide." I find it very worrying that, despite the high level of education of the administration and politicians, we do not see what is happening around us, or we see and understand what we are seeing. On March 11, 2013, Der Spiegel, a summary of the Finances, published a leaflet for all the politicians that the Luxembourg Prime Minister had already issued on several occasions. I quote: 'Responsible policies must not lead harmful economic policies, because they fear that they will pay for the right economic decisions by defeating the next elections. Those who want to rule must take responsibility for their country and for Europe as a whole. This means that real economic policy must be pursued, even though many voters do not approve of it." If we look at the CVs of some politicians, we can see not only that they are politically prostituted, but that they are dealing even with political fraud. For the personal benefits and benefits of their partners and the acquisition of privileges they address and draw others to a political brothel. The most common method is the media lynch method after a pre-tested pre-prepared scenario, which has been successful in Slovenia in 90% so far. The prizes for political prostitution are very inviting. They appear in various forms, for example in the form of a well-paid job for a prostitute, his family member or a relative. Furthermore, as a rich donation to a political party and from there to most of it at least partially in the pocket of a prostitute. Some journalists are also involved in this story, which are highly rewarded for extensive media coverage of certain matters, and even more often for silence and sweeping under carpets. That is why we can follow up on cases where literally the same matter of two different persons is dealt with entirely differently by the media. If a prostitute is involved in the story, it ends quickly, and this is also to avoid disclosing political pimps and other political prostitutes in the case at hand. There is absolutely no way to judge all media and all journalists in a row. Here the so-called Gauss rule, or the arrangement of Gaussian curves, applies. The relationship is so perfect. Once someone is involved in political pimping and political prostitution, they simply cannot get out. This is the most powerful informal organization in Slovenia, which operates according to the principles of the Mafia clans. It sows fear, uncertainty, people's works lay low, benevolent, and in every way tries to take their dignity and self-respect. Anyone who doesn't go into a political prostitution network is simply not wanted. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable citizens and citizens! People go to work hard every day, yet they can no longer afford to pay their bills on time, buy toys for the child, have a little joy at the end of the week, and have a modest holiday. Politicians and journalists with unobjective reporting — where did you bring Slovenia and its inhabitants? I didn't write that for an example of this session. I wrote this six months ago in this book. I recommend this because it is a good and useful reading, which is not made for the daily needs of politics, but is an objective view of the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Samo Bevk, prepare Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In support of today's meeting of the National Assembly, the drafters of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposed a number of conclusions. Among them is the conclusion that: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare, as soon as possible, the necessary reforms recommended in Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096 on measures to eliminate the legacy of the former totalitarian communist regimes and have not yet been implemented." We can also read in this paper that this resolution contains recommendations for a transition to actual democratic order and for addressing the consequences of communism, including the processes of lustration and, above all, the processes of decentralisation, demobilization, demonopolisation and deregulation. The third conclusion of the applicants is that today, in our society, we will establish a lustration process and a lustration court. This attempt was made 16 years ago by these applicants. At the end of 1997, we discussed a resolution on the illegal functioning of the communist totalitarian regime and a bill to remedy the consequences of the communist totalitarian regime. These two documents were then sent to the Presidents of the two opposition parties at the time for discussion with their signatures. The first was signed by John Janša and the second was by Lois Peterle. The law on the elimination of the consequences of the communist totalitarian regime contained a special chapter on lustration and on the establishment of lustration courts 30 days after the adoption of this law. Those two documents were not adopted at the time. They were rejected in the National Assembly. Even the Slovenian People's Party, which was supposed to be the natural ally of the applicants of the law at the time, voted against the law and did not support it. It was said — some colleagues said this — that history needs to be clarified so that we do not make mistakes. By clearing up history, we could have gone a long way back, but I don't think the National Assembly is the place to discuss these matters. It's a matter of historians, and I think historians have a lot to do, but politicians prefer to deal with other things. However, I would like to draw attention to the absurdity of the requirements for the treatment of past history. This debate today seems to me like a debate in the National Assembly on the period of European and Slovenian history from the 15th to the 17th century, marked in many ways by so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called inquisitorial processes and inquisition courts, which somehow remind me of the proposal for the establishment of lustration courts in Slovenia in the 21st century. Whom were magical processes directed against centuries ago? In the first place against women, as in more than 80 cases, women have been convicted and treated exclusively. Further, the processes were aimed at marginals, beggars, travellers, thieves, prostitutes, weirdos, drunkards, sexual expatriates, and also at prominent people, judges, merchants, scientists, priests and teachers. They were also very well used as a very important tool for removing political opponents. In 1995, at the Roman Inquisition Court of the Slovenian Protestant preacher Peter Kupljenek was burned alive. Too many parallels could be drawn between the former courts, the Inquisition and the proposal read among the lines of today's material to establish a lustration court in Slovenia. How did they determine centuries ago whether someone was a witch or a witch? They tied the witch up, threw her in the water, and if she swam to the surface, she proved her guilt, and then they burned her on the pile, and if she drowned, she proved her innocence. Somehow this is how the applicants probably picture this today's lustration test in case these courts were accidentally established. Or, let's say that today, in the National Assembly, we would be discussing illegal activity during the time of anti-reform in Slovenian countries and based on the totalitarian system, and, first of all, we would say that, during the time of counter-reform, systematically and several years, from 1598 to 1630, human rights and fundamental freedoms were violated, that Protestantism was deliberately destroyed, that peasants, merchants, citizens and nobles, who remained loyal to Protestantism, that they were looting property, burning Slovenian books, etc. I think that such discussions would be unproductive, and I think that today's debate in the National Assembly is also unproductive. I would appeal that we focus primarily on the measures that would have brought our country out of the crisis to a new economic start, but not on the lustration processes looking for former communists and, in the model of the witching processes, 'burned them in the bushes'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. According to one of the greatest thinkers of modern times, the immortal soul of communism is a lie, but you, Madam President, should also be aware of it and alert the forerunner who insinuated and induced several times to appeal, introduce and try to represent lustration courts in the 21st century. I mentioned in particular, in the debate on the committee and now that we know that this thing is no longer possible. The constant instigation and deception of people in order to establish lustration courts — no. Samples of the communist system should be discontinued once. On the other hand, I am grateful to Mr Bevk for telling us how they consciously prevented them from adopting the lustration and resolution law in 1997. You're proud of that today. In this you are different from the Democrats in the Czech Republic and Poland who have accepted this. Today Poland and the Czech Republic are flourishing economically. Young people have a future. Because of this deception, I ask you to remind my colleague Bevek. That way, it's a lie to waste, even if it comes from this party, it's not allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u53	Mr Jožef Jerovšek, I can say that, if you remember, Mr Jože Tanko, the leader of your Group of Members, has made me a procedural proposal to take account of each other and to be equally tolerant. I let you talk a lot in the direction of various insinuations. Maybe Mr. Bevk said some things in this direction, so almost, I'd say, 1 to 1. We're moving on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u55	Do you have a procedure? Since Mr Jerovšek had a procedural proposal, you probably have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u56	Yes, procedurally. 16 years ago, colleague Jerovšek, you defended the motion for a resolution and a proposal for a law. If you have defended these two documents, you have defended the lustration courts 16 years ago because there is a special chapter in this law on the establishment and functioning of lustration courts. I am pleased that you have changed your mind today and no longer defend lustration courts, at least not verbally. But if I read your material, which, I think, is also signed with your name, the third conclusion of your material is that it is necessary to adopt as soon as possible the necessary reforms recommended by Council of Europe Resolution No. 1096 in 1996, which also discusses the processes of lustration. I'm kind of not getting along. But I'm glad you don't defend lustration courts anymore, because that doesn't belong in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Eva Irgle. Prepare yourself, Mr. Joseph Horvath and the Magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been pointing out for a number of years the dangerous decline in democratic standards, which, at least in the first few years of the independent country, have been difficult to establish. That is when the process of democratisation began, and thus also the attitude towards respect for human rights and the attitude towards the rule of law. That year, no doubt we all wanted to be able to stand by those European countries that had a long tradition of democracy that respected human rights and knew what it meant to be a legal, social and thus a just state. However, dear colleagues, as is clear from today's debate, we have undoubtedly fallen on this exam, on the whole line. Human rights, respect for human dignity, respect for basic civilisation standards, which should be shown by the fact that we know as a nation in a fivefold way to care for all our dead, especially in the post-war seas, are today sadly more than ever away from us and the great trials. The fact is that the key elements of self-reliance and the key elements during the transition were not done. It wasn't the people's catharsis. We have to admit that. There was no unnecessary lustration to cut through totalitarian thinking and establish a new way of ruling. That is also a fact, Mr Bevk and Mrs Potrate. If we had taken important steps at that time, we would not be here today in terms of values. In 1991 we left the unilateral system to a multi-party, but it seems that this was all that was done. Everything else is more apparent. It is likely that the politics of that time naively believed that even without lustration things would be arranged in their own right but not in their own right. That's what we all figure out today. This was a mistake that we all pay in these difficult times and will be paid by future generations. Lustration did not take place during the first year of independence, or mainly because it was a key priority to continue the political continuity of the past and thus to preserve the privileges that some unjustifiably receive today. That's when it was said to avoid some kind of rematching. The avoidance of renaissism, originally meant as a peaceful break from the past, has today led us to have in all branches of the Authority a monopoly, a network of narrow individual groups, which are primarily interested in maintaining the privileges as early as 2013. Despite democratic transformation, mentality remains exactly the same, and in all the major positions of all branches of government, more or less the same people remain. The modus operandi hasn't changed a millimeter. The advantage remains at all costs and the preservation of power by all means, if necessary by liquidation, as may have happened in the case of Ivan Kramberger, to bring down a dangerous political competitor. The economic crisis that we are witnessing has brought to the fore all the dirt that last year covered the seemingly well-being. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is possible to share a cake as long as it is large, but to you who are in power today and you have also been for years now, power remains a higher priority than the welfare of people. This is also seen in the actions of the current government, which is interfering with the social state. It is this crisis that clearly leads to the resurgence of the jugonostalgia, and, unfortunately, dear colleagues and colleagues on the other hand, you are forgetting all the criminal and criminal elements that come from there and are unfortunately still being preserved in this country today. Undoubtedly, the problem is the lack of perspective and employment opportunities. The former state, which is so eager to be promoted today by our top representatives of the country, has given us a virtual sense of equality. She also gave an imaginary sense of social justice. She gave an imaginary sense of employment opportunities for all of us. All those who today so advocate this jugonostalgia are forgetting that all together there was only one great village of Zamkin, which has become quite obvious especially in the last years of the operation or life of the common country. For the brighter future that we all look forward to, we must first turn to thinking, thinking. We need a step forward and a gradual evolution in democratic thinking. It is important to focus on young people who in the modern, post-modern and hyperactive world lose their focus and purpose. Our aim must be to enable conditions for prosperity and economic growth and to give people a sense of direction towards a better future. However, if we are to achieve this, we must not want to clear up the past first, Mr Bevk. Since we were unable to put her in the right place when the time was right, we must do so today. I'd expect your help here, not the delusion that we're going back in time. We need this catharsis, we need to break with some of the methods of the past that are still very much alive today. If we want Slovenia to finally become a legal and just country, a country where the rule of law will be clearly defined, then we need justice first. This means that we are all equal before the law, no matter what political affiliations we are, no matter what status we are or what status we are, or what other circumstances we are. Righteous justice and thus a just state also means that once for their crimes related to genocide or the murder of Slovenians after World War II, all those guilty will have to be held accountable. Some are still alive, but to this day nothing has happened; no proceedings have been tried in court. Against no one, Mrs. Potter, against no one. And it was about killing people. [[advertising from the hall]] True, the guilt has to be proven, but we don't even process things. This does not even happen so that we can prove the guilt later. All those responsible for the theft of the common property will have to be convicted on the basis of evidence, as you say. This property will eventually have to be returned to all of us because it was common. Only then will we be able to say that we are all the same before the law and that we are all equally responsible or responsible for crimes. Today, without evidence, people are sentenced to imprisonment and, on the other hand, they are forgiven where evidence is that a crime has been committed, but for such or other reasons, even political reasons, they are not taken into account. Justice is justice that judges fairly and is not under the influence of one political option. What happened in the case of Patria, in my opinion, is scandalous and shows that there are still politically mounted processes in Slovenia in 2013, a period of a previous regime. Let me remind you here of the mounted process a few years before the conquest, when 8 people were wrongly convicted. The State, which is supposed to respect human rights and respect the rule of law, never excused these people for being wrongly condemned. But that seemed normal. Even today, people who are heirs to the totalitarian regime seem perfectly normal to be convicted without proof of guilt in the mounted trials. This is our country's problem. If this country wants to emerge from the crisis, both the economic crisis and the value crisis, it needs self-cleaning in the first place. He needs self-reflexion to be able to see, and above all, that he is able to acknowledge the key mistakes of the past. Not only do we have to admit these mistakes, we also need to know how to correct them, and we need to know how to forgive them. But you can only forgive when a confession is given on the other hand that something has been done wrong. Mrs. Potrata, this is exactly the kind of thing we need a restaurant in this currently decomposed system. That's a fact. We're not the only ones who keep that in mind. We are also reminded of this by Europe. The consequences of such behaviour have already been foreseen in the 1996 resolution that we have here today. But we're all fighting to open up some new space. We're resisting this with all the screams. We need an exit from Yugoslav thinking and related iconography. We need a healthy policy and its highest representatives who will realize that something is very wrong if you sing with a smile on your mouth, say, "He lived communism", which will not be allowed to carry out our Father's servant, Jernej, because of the ignorance of Slovenian literature – which, by the way, is a disgrace to the President of the National Assembly. Only because he mentions your father. We really screwed up. Mrs Potrata, here you could explain to your colleague, the President of the National Assembly, what the prayer of the servant Jernei is about, and that you are the very party that is most prosperous in this room on the social elements. If we said that, then Mr Weber probably wouldn't have made the decision as he did. The kid Jernej was no doubt right when he prayed that the worker should be paid and that he was hungry and thirsty for justice. These words are still important and essential today. It would be good for us to live in this national assembly. Monopolies are the ones that are eating away our country. At the time of the transition, no key moves have been made, and now, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally somewhere to decide. We are before the end, whether we decide to drift into failure because of those who would like to drag everyone else under water for the sake of maintaining the monopolies, or we will finally and immediately begin to break down the monopolies and remove them. For the sake of all of us, I hope we make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Evie Irgle. Procedurally, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u60	Madam Vice-President, I respectfully ask you, despite your clear desire to be neutral and not to interfere with the words of the debaters and debaters, and thus to allow freedom of speech. But I would expect some reaction from you. On the spot, when Mrs Irgl said it was a restaurant of this currently debilitated system – such a definition is an insult to the National Assembly and to the state of Slovenia. I'd expect your warning. I have been elected to democratic elections, I am part of parliamentary democracy, and I am not part of any corrupt system. However, everything else Mrs Irgle has done is not worth losing words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. I will try to ensure equality for all, while at the same time asking all Members and Members to behave with dignity today despite this hot meeting. Mr. Bevk has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to propose to my colleague, Eva Irgle, to read both the motion for a resolution and the draft law, which was sent into Parliament in 1997 by their party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, and where the first was signed by the proposer, as well as by Janez Janša, and the President of the Slovenian Christian Democrats, Lois Peterle. If she reads these two documents, I believe she will no longer support us in establishing a lustration system. Then we could draw a parallel between the magic processes, the Dachav processes and the lustration processes. We could draw too many parallels between these three historical processes. Once again, I would like to point out the tragic fate of Slovenian Protestant preacher Peter Kupljenek, who was sentenced to death in 1587 and then allowed to leave the country. After him, every trace was lost until Italian historian Silvano Cavazza discovered in 1995 that the Slovenian Protestant preacher had been imprisoned in Italian or Roman inquisitorial prisons since 1590. Since he remained strong in his Protestant faith and did not cancel anything, he was burned in a pile in Campo de' Fiori Square in Rome, where he was also visited by the famous Renaissance thinker Giordano Bruno for 5 years after Slovenian preachers. colleague Eva Irgl, I propose that you follow your colleague Jerovšek, who has previously explicitly stated that she does not support lustration and does not support lustration courts, because this anachronism does not belong to the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u63	Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u64	Madam Vice President, I'm very surprised you haven't responded. I am also surprised at my colleague Sam Bevk, whom I consider to be a worthy Member, that something as frightening as he has now said could make him talk about the fact that by implementing the lustration law, which is an administrative measure, it would be equal to the Dachav trials when the communist authorities in 1948 condemned and killed 11 Dachav prisoners. The flower of Slovenian chemistry went away then. They don't know about the graves today. This is an indirect accusation by the new Slovenia, according to the democratic Slovenia, that it wanted to kill people on the basis of political conviction!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u65	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u66	I demand a reminder for Mr Bevek because he said something outrageous, frightening – that Slovenia alone wanted to kill people as it did in the Dachav communist processes!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u67	Mr. Jerovšek, I'm sorry. What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u68	Give him serious warning that he should no longer allow himself to do so because he is insulting this country! It's the same as when Potter said she was very ashamed to be Slovenian. No abortion, sorry, Popotova!
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u69	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Mr. Bevk, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u70	I apologize to my colleague Jerovšek if he misunderstood me. I didn't even compare the Dachav processes with any lustration processes. On the contrary, I condemned both the witch and the dachava trials and pulled a parallel that we do not know what would have happened if we had lustration processes and lustration courts in Slovenia. If my colleague Jerovšek misunderstood me, I apologize. I certainly didn't want to pull that equation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, this has also been a kind of use of a procedural proposal. Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedural proposal? Replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u72	Thank you very much. As a proponent, I have the right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u73	As your candidate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. I think the discussion has gone too far. What some on the other hand do is not in the context of the debate we have presented and requested. We proposed a debate on the state of democracy in Slovenia. We can talk about this from independence on or maybe a little earlier, but not around 1200, 1500, etc. What colleagues do only means that they try to redirect the debate from essential to non-essential, with incomparable comparisons. From the previous regime, the socialist, totalitarian, whatever, we passed on a series of things that were not good through independence to the new democratic state. The kind of thing that caused the previous country to collapse. Type of connections and errors in justice, type of errors and connections in the economy and all other subsystems. Lustration, if performed as it was in some other post-communist countries, did not mean any liquidation. This type of lustration was nowhere to be seen as a magical process, but it was essential that normal conditions in society, economy, justice, education and all other social systems were established. That was an inappropriate condition. In those countries where this has not been done, there are major problems. These countries have remained on Europe's tail. We can plug them in anywhere. As soon as he makes this connection, it is this clientelistic approach that causes deformities that are almost impossible to eliminate. That's what happened with us. In three years, from the end of 2008 to 2011, we have built up, but those whom some call the uncles from the background, and these are prominent Slovenian personalities and politicians, or who are called grey eminences in the banking system, have not suffered any particular problems, as they are still particularly clientelistic, we can also say corrupt, the way they manage these systems, regardless of the time-consuming authority. Ladies and gentlemen, we are only talking about whether the steps that have been taken have been appropriate and sufficient or not. I am convinced, given what is going on, and given how ostracally the institutions or the highest political representatives are acting, it is obvious that these mechanisms have not been used and that no such cleansing has occurred. That's the only problem. The tax is paid by those who don't have to pay. We proposed solutions last year, including the so-called ZUJF, the famous 143rd paragraph. But with that measure, we have reached into part of the population that has experienced, experienced, or had a superstandard, and this from public resources, as a privileged complement to something. This was marked for the lustration of a particular group of citizens, for a mini lustration. What does it mean when you reduce the number of people 10 times or 30 times the number of social transfers, namely those categories of people who are deprived, who do not have to be helped by the state to survive. What kind of lustration is that? Social Aid Action — What Lustration Is It? When we discuss Mr Kučan, this means a mini lustration when we talk about 300,000 social beneficiaries because we cannot provide them with jobs, and we are talking about what? It's about a righteous country, isn't it? This perception, or this debate, was also heard here in the days of the Pahor government. Not one privileged layer has that government reached out, nor has that government reached into any privileged layer. He's defending himself. He doesn't want to. However, it intervenes in groups that are in some ways marginal, which are difficult to organize themselves, and uses all of the media's insurmountable instruments, which are certainly sponsored in some way by some circles. That's the problem with this company. For the delusions of uncles and grey eminences are paid by those who were not present. We all pay, the ones we're not here. The problem with this country, the judiciary and institutions is that no proceedings are initiated against grey eminence and uncles. No one's answering. We've even come so far that no one wants to tell me, and they know them. We're talking about the complete deformation of society. All those who say you are democratic and social could do something about democracy and social affairs, but not knowingly defend something that causes problems, demands cancellation and payment, and does not allow any improvement. It is not clear why these delusions of uncles and grey eminents should pay the Slovenian countryside. Why should we raise the tax on property, on farms, on empty stables, on dogs' feet? Why should social transfers be reduced? Why do you need to raise the cadastral income for x times, for a few times, for 10 times in some cases? How much is the contribution of uncles and grey emineans? Can anyone explain it to me? What's the damage to the operation of uncles and grey emineans? All recapitalisations are likely under this heading, or any recovery or intervention measures for companies in difficulty that need to be remedied without insurance following the decision of this government and this coalition. These are the measures. We have come so perversely far in some cases that the penalty for one brought log without one document is a million times higher than for a 20-million-dollar transaction that is illegal. Look at the law you've proposed and the penalties you've provided for in the Forest Act. If there is no carrier for one haulage, it is a penalty for the person who will drive it, if he is a natural person, from 2,000 to 5,000 euros. For a log more than six inches thick, the punishment is so great. What is the penalty for the grey eminence that triggers the transfer process in the banking system in a privileged, corrupt way? How big is it? How many were said? None. I propose that we no longer deal with those processes that may be a special topic for historians and that the agenda item may be the Committee on Culture. We can't discuss the media there, we can't discuss the current problems. I don't know, it's in violation of the law. But you can talk about magic processes, and you'll develop your philosophical themes there. But I ask what you will do to ensure that the situation that the current President of the Republic has pointed out when the Prime Minister, or the anti-corruption commission, will be resolved that there will be no more background uncles working past the government and otherwise, such as the government's decision, and that there will not be some grey eminence in the banking system, as Klemenčič's Anti-Corruption Commission notes. That's the question today. Until we put an end to this, only measures that are a burden on people will come, only measures that constitute an intervention in social rights, only measures that will raise taxes on the economic system, and only measures that will reduce the possibility of any employment because there will be no jobs. It's the only process that follows. What you're proposing with the balance is the execution of this. The next balance – you can see for yourself, I've been monitoring it now through the working bodies – will only get worse because it's unrealistic. These are the debates of the Members of the Social Democrats and also some others who have little knowledge of these processes. What's next? I suggest you give an answer because you are so tirelessly defending those who have acquired some status in this society, an informal status, abused and caused the difficulties we pay the residents of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u76	Madam Vice-President, I ask you to allow me, in the context of the procedural proposal, to deny Mr Tank's misrepresentation, which stated that the Committee on Culture had not discussed the state of media freedom. The Committee on Culture considered the European Parliament's resolution on media freedom. He discussed this but did not discuss the specific case of RTV Slovenia's suspension because it is inconsistent with Article 2 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia because the founder must not interfere with the autonomy and editorial policy of RTV Slovenia. This is a very important correction because it is very misquoted and should be taken into account. Thank you so much for letting me know to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We will now proceed with the debate. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I want only a few things to go down in a matter of time. Firstly, with great pain in my heart, I regret that we have not managed to unify ourselves enough to adopt at least one conclusion on the state of democracy in Slovenia. Secondly, I am pleased that Comrade Marko Pavlišič has rejoined us, which is an excellent replacement at Dr Virant's headquarters, but his percentage account goes roughly as if they said that this coalition raised VAT by 2%, but it is not. The rate rose by 10 % or 2 percentage points. With these percentages, we need to be precise and say that SKD or Nova Slovenija led the government: the first government, Peterletova, from 16 May 1990 to 14 May 1992 – two years minus two days – the fifth government, the Bayuk government, from 7. 6. 2000 to 30. 11. the same year – 5 months and 23 days. Suma sumarum, it is Slovenian, 2 years 5 months and 21 days. Big or small? Not enough! If Christian democracy had run the Slovenian government for at least as long as the CDU and the CSU in Germany in these 22 years, Slovenia could today be a small Germany. That's my axiom. I propose that we close ourselves in this hall once again and approach this government with a project approach. We have a diagnosis. Let us see where in our political agenda we have failed to think about what we have not solved. Unfortunately, we must start with the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This was adopted and the state of Slovenia was created because the SFRJ was not a legally regulated country. Is Slovenia a state governed by law today? We all know the answer — it's not. We are not just talking about politics, it is shouting and asking us to resolve this issue, including the Slovenian economy. I've said that a lot. I don't know if that's what Mr. Plitzenic heard. I'm glad the Secretary of State has joined us. I don't know if this government has heard that. Cases need to be resolved – a project approach. I'll set up another thesis. The Anti-Corruption Commission presented a status assessment document on the parliamentary investigative committee. I'm setting thesis. On this document, this government may continue its work, or this document must go away. Because it says here who is responsible for the Slovenian banking system, for the criminals in the Slovenian banking system, the legislation is such that unfortunately they cannot present the names and surnames. We can't give responsibility names and surnames. That is why this government must sit down with the KPC together, correct legislation in order to get names and surnames once. If not, this government must go. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. Mr. Pavlisic has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your kind words, Sir Horvath. My numbers referred to government involvement, not government leadership. It is nice of you to warn that the new Slovenia has run the government twice, which further underpins my thesis. Here I would add that those who run the government have the greatest responsibility and the greatest power in the government, but others who are involved unfortunately hold or hold the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Today is not the first case that "Mrs. Government" is not responding. We have come to the meeting, the government has an announced time, and I propose that the questions that have emerged in the discussion so far after about five hours of discussion should also be answered. The government that comes here sits down and writes down, and does not answer, does its work recklessly. Members, at least the proponents, expect some corrective response as well as corrections or forecasts of how the matter will continue to be regulated. The government probably doesn't just come to sit down for about eight hours. We expect active government work, so it is also invited, as well as answers. Unfortunately not only today, but it has happened several times so far that we have representatives of the Government here who, with their silent presence, do not help to clarify the situation and do not say anything about the further steps that are certainly necessary in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Representatives of the Government may be included in the debate at any time. We continue the debate. Mr. Jerko Čehovin has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would prefer not to speak, because I do not see any added value in today's reference and in the current debate. Of this, the citizens will have nothing and the voters will have nothing. This is just a renewal of some old topics already chewed up, backed up by new things that relate to what we are going to have next week – a budget meeting. All these answers will be, if they are not already given to the committees, and some other laws will give you these answers. I do not know what the Government could say and how it could react, in particular in the light of some of the discussions. I don't know, we've already had an emergency session on the state of justice, we've had some other emergency sessions, and today I think we have this after a needlessly forced session to talk about the state of democracy, and it's clear that no one is satisfied with the level of democracy in Slovenia. The difference is that some people think the opposite side is to blame, while others are completely sterile, even constructive, etc. I don't want to talk about history. If I take a look, I feel like he doesn't like the self-image of the Slovenians. We don't have enough confidence. If I Go Back — What Determined Our History? Today you have already talked about the time of Protestantism and Primož Trubar, etc. If we go from then to the so-called spring of the nations in 1948, to the camp movements, to the struggle for the northern border, to the fight of the Primors via the TIGR and the Freedom Society, to the NOB, and finally to our own self-serving war. All of this is some mosaic in the history or epoch of one nation. Any defamation of one or the other does not contribute to quality. Instead of being proud of our history, all of these were contributions to the preservation of the nation, its identity, its language, and its victims. Such or other sacrifices, during the war, during both wars, after the war and beyond. But I think we're done with this. In 2009, we passed the Law on the Reparation of Crimes, by which more or less, as we know it, we corrected these injustices. When I look at how we are discussing these matters today, there is only one red thread drawn from whether the party is in power or not. When it is not in power, everything is wrong when it is in power, but everything is beautiful and everything is focused, all European, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung praises us, etc. When we're not, it's just another thing. Unfortunately, I have to say that some of you have really exaggerated here, and with some of the stories you've told, you've only confirmed that manipulation, tampering, lying, conveying the protection signs of the proponents. Various falsifications, bonding, honoring primitive online forums, spreading half-truths, extracting fragments from texts and speeches, listening, denunciation, defiance of otherwise thoughtable, pressure on justice and the media and fabricating affairs – this is a constant. All together, there is only one great attempt at self-projection of the zero of its own action on the entire policy and on the social sub-systems, according to the principle of Who is not with us, is our enemy. Then why did we establish a country in which we decided to have a plural democracy in 1991? Because anyone who disagrees with me or with you or with anyone else has the opportunity to discuss their requirements, their needs in the field of free political association, customer establishment, client integration, etc. That doesn't mean that if we don't all have a built-in, excuse me, so to speak, a yellow chip in our head, that we're all under some kind of anathema, that we're all some potential enemy. It was even said that we were heirs to communism. With that same logic, I could say that you are some of the heirs to collaboration, the historical heritage of collaboration. The perpeutum mobile will resume for the next 10 years, and the young generation will just show how we don't know or don't want or can't do all this together. Just to illustrate, let's say, two things that are typical forgeries and they roll all the time. One thing is about that famous emissary evening in Nova Gorica. I was present, and I know very clearly what was said at the time. But here's where the role swap was made and what was said is falsified. What was said was meant to be done by someone else. But you've taken this as a threat to citizens by beatings, and you're still saying that today. The other thing, dear thing, is a dark stain on Slovenia's self-sustainment history – erased. The question of why this case occurred is relevant. Not that we are listening to stories today, but that if we were to deal with it individually, there would be no problem. It's already been a problem. Let's go back to the genetics of this problem. This problem arose when someone felt it would be very useful and very receptive if some were thus removed from Slovenia. Interestingly, we did this only for those citizens who belonged to the countries of the former Yugoslavia. We didn't do this, like, for the Italians, the Germans, the French, the Swiss, etc., but we only chose these as our target. In all this time, no one has taken at least one moment of self-reality to say that we made a mistake. No, no, no. This is still happening, and this has even taken place in the referendums, etc. If I am very clear, it is a constant repetition of one subject and a constant warming of some parishes that are cooked in Murglas, some of the judgments that are written in Murglas. Remember, not only does the former president of the state live in Murglah, but he also lives in the former interior minister. Or maybe he cooks some soup or writes some stories. Once again, young people are interested in something completely different. They are interested, say, in this law that has been passed and which will come into force in October that employers will be exempt from payments for two years for their contributions. That's what they're interested in. They want to know what their perspective is in this country, and whether they're going to have to pick up their spikes and hooves and go elsewhere. The interesting thing is that it's supposed to be the first time we've been in politics. We need to listen to the stories of those who had a skirt and a canvas, as they say at home, for 22 years in their hands. You should ask yourself what they did and why we came into the situation we're in. Instead of working together to find the best way out of this situation, which is not pink, which is even problematic, we accuse ourselves. I don't know what Parliament is supposed to say about the state of democracy from what we don't know or have never heard. I don't see any added value, and I can say I only have a feeling of contempt for forced meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chehovin. Mr. Jerovšek, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u86	Mr. Chekovin was now free and honest. He despises us. He despises other Slovenes. I must protest, Madam Vice President, and you must very strongly punish him. He rebuked me and others for his historical heritage of collaboration. Mr. Chehovin, my ancestors were imprisoned under the occupying power as early as April 1941 among the very first, actively aiding Partisanism, authentically, not revolution, were critical, told us what the revolution was doing, suffered because of this, being persecuted after the war. I have repeatedly refused to cooperate with the communists when they forced me, and you will condemn me for collaborating with anyone or my ancestors! I believe you despise me for this. I believe so, but at the same time, you said in the beginning that post-war killings were also good for something. Was that good for Slovenia?Oh, my God! What a burden you've got here! Please excuse those Slovenians who have been condemned by the historical heritage of collaboration. You have no right to charge! That's what your party system was doing. It came so far that in a Styrian town, they asked whether the Roman Catholic Church in Styria had cooperated with the invader, and 70% said yes. But they were closed to the last, every priest. That's your thesis. Excuse me, please. Otherwise, tighten it up. I don't take that on average. This is the continuation of the communist system.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u87	Mr Jerovšek, this was also an abuse of the procedural proposal. I would ask that we calm our passions and continue our debate. Mr. Jerko Chehovin, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u88	I ask Mr Jerovska to read the magnetogram, and not to mention what I did not say.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ms Tina Brecelj, representative of the Government, Ms Franz Breznik and Mrs Sonja Ramšak, took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! As Mr Čehovin has already pointed out, the Government has discretion to communicate when it deems necessary. I find it hard to say that the government is now passive or quiet. The Minister of Justice has twice clarified the government's position on this matter. I don't answer because I've been challenged, but because I don't think it's necessary for some things to happen again. One of these things is that the rule of law is one of the three priorities of this government. That is why the Government has focused its attention, great efforts, on gradual and thoughtful steps towards judicial reform. These are reforms that the Government has drawn up not because of the 1996 resolution, but because of the constitutionality of our country, which is our highest, most important legal act. You are well aware that in the next week we have a regular session of the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, which is one of the steps towards this reform and also one of the steps to achieve the goal even better, even better, if I may say so, the rule of law. In addition, it has been pointed out several times in the National Assembly that on 4 June this year the commitment between the Government and the judiciary of that country, which clearly sets out what the situation in the judiciary is today and what the target situation in the Court of Justice will be on 1 June the following year, when both the Government and the judiciary carry out each of their measures to achieve this situation. I find it difficult to agree that the government, which has been exposed today, has no objective of not knowing where it is going. Once again, the rule of law is one of three priorities, and in relation to this priority certain steps are being taken, important steps are already taking, which you, honourable Members, are also well aware of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Franz Beznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u92	President, thank you very much for your word. I will remain on the core issue of today's session – why we did this country in the first place and why most citizens and citizens were on the plebiscite in 1990 to leave the former so-called creation called Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia has collapsed, not only economically, but also morally and legally. Yugoslavia, as such, had a totalitarian regime where human rights and freedoms were massively violated. She had an abnormal economic policy that punished good and business and held a stand for all those who were corrupt, lazy and speculative. This led to the mass destruction of Yugoslavia. We have made this country with the greatest consent of citizens and citizens. As someone who was a fairly young member of the then armed forces, I can say that we also fought against the signs of totalitarianism, and we fought for a nation that had an incredible history, which had already had a railway in 1857, to deserve much more. It deserves greater prosperity, better economic policy, greater respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. This was fundamental, which is why we decided to make a better country. We knew we could do more. Unfortunately, of the five monopolies that the former system had, four monopolies remained when the new state was established. We can still talk about the so-called school-cultural monopoly, the educational and cultural monopoly. We are talking about a media monopoly and we are talking about a so-called economic monopoly through state-owned companies. We are talking about the so-called Court Monopoly through the doctrine of former uncivilised law, especially in the criminal work which has educated most of the judicial or so-called legal professions, and therefore this country cannot come out of the trenches we have. The meeting that we have convened today is mainly in the area where this doctrine is coming back. After all these years, all the doctrine is returned. The so-called Belgrade Economic Policy, which again penalises the most decent and entrepreneurial people in this country, is reducing entrepreneurship. Daily and mass migrations are taking place from the country. Nor is there any respect for typical human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings. Once again, there is a policy that we already know, which we are in the middle generation, not just the older generation. That's the fear, that's the look we all have to stop together. We may all be learning democracy together, learning all these processes. I'm not used to these performances that some of you perform here. I am not used to them, although when I look at other parliaments, I respect any different opinion, I respect some European left-wing attitude. But as long as someone does not know the ex-founds of how the state is forming, what fundamental human rights are, what serious economic policy means, then all the debates in Parliament are unproductive, they do not lead anywhere. We need to know the basis of the market economy. This country, through all these arguments that I have listed, has so far had no chance of success in the country's market economy. When we have somehow come halfway to where we have stopped, you are now reporting to us and building some myths on some Yugoslavia, on some state socialism, although this country has never before had the opportunity to bring the market economy into some context so that people can act and feel the products of the market economy that are valued through the welfare of citizens and citizens. Especially for those who, with their work, their kindness, their diligence for this society, are the ones who give the most. They are also the most penalised with the current policy, the economic policy of this government. As a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party and as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I will continue to try to contribute to this debate, so that those who may know other economic policies will understand this, this attitude of mine, this belief of mine and, above all, my well-intention towards all those who are gathered together in this High National Assembly. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Breznik. Mrs Sonja Ramshak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u94	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Mr Drago Jančar said a good decade ago that we dreamed of democracy, woke up in capitalism, but not in capitalism of the market and fair economy, but in its worst transition and privatisation version. Unfortunately, these words are still valid today, and that is also why today's call for this extraordinary meeting, as requested by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. I have always understood the institution of the National Assembly as the temple of democracy, where Members and Members exchange different opinions, views, views, and goals, as well as those mentioned by the Minister of Justice. For me, these objectives are to ensure the rule of law and the rule of law, to guarantee a social state and to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. I myself have been and will be committed to tolerance and respect, not hatred between citizens and citizens, and I am also against hatred within these walls. I once warned in this Chamber that some were unable to make a mental leap in their heads and are still limited by the way in which they think and act, which is characteristic of another time, the time of the totalitarian system of communism, which one today, 22 years after independence, defends by all means and by all means. It saddens me that the representative of a party carrying the word democratic in its name does not understand that the debate on whether in Slovenia we can really talk about democratic society and the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is not about opening ideological themes, but it is about realizing that unfortunately today, after 22 years of independence and independence of our country, we are neither democratic nor just, but even less, a social state, which you also prove by raising VAT and cutting certain social lines. For me personally, and for my fellow Members and colleagues in the debates on post-war killings and even during the national liberation fight, political, economic and media monopolies and the development of these, the division of citizens and citizens into so-called first and second-class citizens, the controversial names of streets and barracks by persons who are directly or indirectly responsible for the numerous distortions and liquidation of thousands of innocent people are not about opening ideological themes, but it is simply about whether we all properly understand democracy, because if democracy is properly understood, it can also be successful. He had warned Dr. Jože Pučnik about this in the mid-80s, which I believe many people in this room do not understand. "A self-governing and direct democracy behind the coins hides a scam that keeps the party in a monopolistic position." Those are his words. Positive Slovenia or the leader of the Positive Slovenia Group – unfortunately today the Ambassadors and Members of Positive Slovenia are not in the Chamber – repeatedly urges us that the Slovenian Democratic Party condemns only one totalitarianism – communism – but does not condemn the other two totalitarianisms – Fascism and Nazism. This is simply not true, and it is another type of discredit and incitement to Members and Members of the SDS and to all those who are publicly and aloud pointing out the lack of respect for European values, the lack of respect for the rule of law and the rule of law. That is why, respected colleagues and colleagues, even today, after 22 years of independence, we need to talk about whether we have come from non-democracy to democracy, from violating and trampling human rights to respect these. Since you do not accept modern European values, you are always returning to the time of the former SFRJ, in the time of communism, where party February and their minions lived completely different from simple people. These background uncles, also known by the President of the State of Borut Pahor, do not reveal them, enjoy privileges today. But you are not concerned about the fraudulent and fraudulent employees who lost their earnings because of the greed of the tycoon moguls. After 22 years, unfortunately, we can still see that the state and some individuals, especially on the left, operate according to the principle of Right People at the right time in the right position. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I should like to conclude with the wish that you will take your time during parliamentary holidays and perhaps read a book written by someone who has participated in the self-sustainment processes and in the protection of human rights. That is why I strongly recommend to you the book by Mr Igor Omar JBTZ – A time before and after. Perhaps you will look at the Slovenian Democratic Party and attack us Members and Members and all those who think well with different eyes and receive us.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u95	Thank you. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, but I'm asking for peace in the hall. You'll have your chance. Thank you very much, Mrs. Sonja Ramshak. We continue the debate, Mr Srečko Meh. Prepare Mr. Marijan Pojbič, followed by Dr. Ljubica Jelusič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u96	Good-bye! That's what I was going to say without talking to Mr Brullac. Perhaps it would benefit someone to really read all three books on weapons and some other book, and then get some mix of truth about it. Why, honourable Members, are some of the debaters angry? Why? What should be spoken of in this temple of democracy and also by representatives of the people with anger? Is that necessary? No, ladies and gentlemen. Why should we talk about doing something? Colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party are talking about what communism has done. Inside your customers you can clear up everything with your president, who was a member of the taist hated party, and you can do it peacefully by clearing it up. But look, the minister said something in the beginning that I agree with. Fear is slowly coming into the lives of individuals in our country, fear of tycoons, fear of entrepreneurs who have done wrong, fear of politicians who are being court-martialed. And that's right. That should be the only fear he'd be right to be. I am in favour of this fear being only so feared by those who have done something wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, you talk so much about these uncles from behind. For a while, I thought you meant Mr Brulco and me, because we're sitting here in the back and we're the oldest in this House. How the hell none of all those people who talk about these uncles who run Slovenia have so many things that they could have to say who this man is. I suppose Borut Pahor isn't the only one who knows who the uncles are from behind. Make an application, report it, you know that. Do it. When I know about someone who's doing this, I'm sure I'll report him. That's what I guarantee you. Today you talked a lot about banking, who's responsible, how credits were received, phone loans, everything else. In the five years you led the government, were you unable to do anything to investigate any law? Is it all this government that's been running this thing for three months? Or, as Pavlišič said, of those who were in these governments, no one could do anything? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not right, because of the Slovenian public it is not right. I also think it is good that the Slovenian judiciary works, ladies and gentlemen. They are protesting in front of parliament – today is the 60th day – two protestors because they have been wronged. The Slovenian judiciary did to the Supreme Court within two months what they did there – it ruled. They say that today or yesterday — their money was wrongly taken — that they would receive it. This is the subject that we should be talking about, the injustices that are not settled, the injustices that the tycoons are doing, whether they are lions, right or whatever — they are tycoons, and we must fight them. Not against those who led anything in 1991, 1992 and 1993. Then it's a question of the red star and the symbols. To me, the red star is a very bright symbol. My father fought under a red star like a partisan. The Partisan stars carry banners of the Ensigns, partisan stars. What the Yugoslav army did was ugly and wrong. Did anyone talk – when we talk about postwar killings, I condemn them – about the fact that the Slovenian nation was also disbanded in 1941, that part of the Slovenian nation had collaborated with the invaders, with the invaders, with the fascists, with the Nazis. The partisans fought against it under the red star and under any other symbol, and they did not know whether they were Communists or Christians. They fought for Slovenia, and that's what I think is the essence of the red star. Today someone was talking about the unfortunate eraseds, ladies and gentlemen. Who blamed the deleted? Who talked about thousands of euros for a son, for a father, for a mother, for an aunt and an uncle? Who didn't do their job? Why, last year, the government of John Janša did not do what it had to do to send an answer to Europe about how we will save the erased. Why didn't we do it? It is not important that the government of Janez Janša did not do so, it is important that Slovenia did not do so. You don't realize that, ladies and gentlemen, when you say you didn't do it, you didn't do it, you didn't do it. We didn't do it, Slovenia. This seems to me the most problematic and most terrible of all. What should we really talk about today? You know, on the Justice Committee, you've been saying for six, eight hours that you've already said all this once that you've been repeating yourself that you've done everything you've done, you've said it all. What are we supposed to talk about today? About how people live and what we will do to make them live better. That would be a real mission today. Several Members and Members spoke of the fact that we should say that in some cases we will still collide with our own kind. The fact that the government of Alenka Bratusek owed worse than the government of Janez Janša is bad for Slovenia. We should do everything we can to get better conditions. Today we talk about the fact that we have not carried everything we should have carried to the banks – we have not endured in three months, but rather on the basis of one year, on the basis of three years, and on the basis of four years. This is our problem, our pain, because we keep talking about what others haven't done. Let's just say what we did, and let's just say what we're gonna do. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's stop making accusations and do something for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Meh. We continue the debate. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, distinguished representative of the Government, Secretary of State Mrs. Brecelj! Our debate today has somehow been accompanied by a dilemma as to whether it is meaningful or not. It is possible that over the past 22 years we have not talked enough about how we have implemented the transformation of our legal and institutional system and how the transition has taken place. Even today, after 22 years, we ask ourselves whether we have fulfilled all the expectations that were linked to democratic society or not. But that's natural. People are always wondering whether we have achieved some of the goals set in the past. Of course it would also be that resolution No. 1096, adopted by the Council of Europe or by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 27 June 1996, if we have already put it on the ground of today's debate, we have also used it correctly and have really discussed what this resolution expects of us, and with its help we have also identified the situation in our country. At the same time, I am taking part in the position of my fellow Member, Magi. Majde Potrat, who said that the review of our state of respect for democracy was in fact made, at least by external forces, between 2000 and 2004, when the most intensive processes of joining the European Union and the NATO Union were under way. In these two international organisations of Slovenia, it would never have been possible if it had failed to carry out appropriate democratisation processes, including those which have been prescribed or adopted as common rules of conduct under resolution No. 1096 in 1996 in the Council of Europe. This document discusses four principles to accompany the process of reshaping the legal and institutional framework of democratic countries. They're talking about demilitarisation, decentralisation, demonopolisation and demobilization. Some colleagues and colleagues today have touched on these four principles, some have already given certain examples in this regard, and some of the principles have not yet been addressed. Although the demilitarisation principle has already been mentioned, I would point out that in 22 years of changing our legal order, some of the things that we have also requested in this resolution have been implemented and have led so far as to ask ourselves today whether it is possible to determine whether these processes have also led us to a significant reduction in the effectiveness of certain social systems. Demilitarization is a typical case in which we have to ask ourselves where it took us. It was a so-called civilisation of the defence sector. Our country and our politicians understood the demilitarisation principle by making the army, first the Territorial Defence, then the Slovenian Army, smaller and smaller, the apparatus for controlling this army, especially the one in the administrative part of the Ministry of Defence, more and more. In particular, those who like to use numbers and relative and absolute comparisons could calculate that civilisation has already reached a stage, as foreign experts say, of hypercivilisation, and we must now also ask ourselves in Slovenia whether there is anything left of the army when we talk about the military, whether we have any other military substance when we talk about the defence system, whether it is already mainly civilised both by the manner of conduct and by values. Some spoke about the question of decentralisation from the point of view of local self-government. Also on the question of the number of municipalities we have reached, we are now wondering whether they still allow us to effectively implement the policy of local self-government that we have dreamed of or anticipated in the past that it should be implemented. The principle of de-de-barcation raises the question of how we built our democratic institutions over the past 22 years compared to what the old country once had. We have built all the institutions more or less on new ones and added new ones. Every government and every party, every party, when it came to power, left its members at each of the ministries to achieve the "democratic" appearance of that ministry. We are going to put this democracy in the box because the excessive bureaucracy of the state administration and the public sector has been achieved. It is now our government's turn to try to achieve perhaps a new, more reasonable process, a new transition into a more efficient public sector. The debate or documentation raised the question of what the state of democracy in Slovenia is today in relation to resolution No. 1096. During these 22 years, democracy has been understood in interesting ways, among other things – since we have already mentioned deleted many times today – that at the same time, when a large number of people have been removed from the register of permanent residents, because they did not have citizenship, other people who were without Slovenian citizenship have been employed in vital parts of the state administration. I'm talking again about the Ministry of Defence or the Territorial Defence. Since the then political actors were unable, as some say, to deal individually with all those who collaborated with JLA, they thought that they could be collectively accounted for by deleting all and many others from the permanent residence register. At the same time, at the end of 1991 and at the beginning of 1992, officers of the former Yugoslav army were employed in the Territorial Defence. They also stayed in the Slovenian Army and some only recently retired. What does that mean? This reflects the duality of many who have acted in our past policy. It also points to the duality of those who spoke recently about how they mourned the fighters of the Territorial Defence, who fell in Trzin, although in the book of Mr Janša Premika this member of the Territorial Defence was mentioned as a civilian who fell in Trzin. At the time of the same gentleman who wrote this book and was the Defence Minister, the man who organised the attack on Trzin on the JLA page got a job at the Ministry of Defence and was without Slovenian citizenship. Here you can see the duality of understanding democracy. We have clearly understood democracy in the past so that everyone in it can do what they want. Democracy is also this, so we have understood that at the national celebration of all veteran associations, when it comes to the celebration of the Statehood Day, there is also the banner of the Union of National Liberation Wars of Slovenia, because our ancestors, including my coastal ancestors, have trolled in Italian prisons because they believed in the red star on that flag and the red star, which meant a symbol of hope, rebellion, resistance, victory and independence for them. Democracy is also that on 30 June 2013 the 70th anniversary of the arrival of Bishop Rožman in Šentjost nad Polhovi Gradec is celebrated in Šentjost nad Polhovi Gradec. This is done in the presence of a household flag or a household flag protected by gentlemen in domestic uniforms, and a speech given by a high official of the Government, and by our current government. It's a democracy. Democracy is also that from the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is paid for both the union of fighters and the New Slovenian Commitment. But, as it is said, democracy is also freedom of choice, and it would be wise if we were already interested in holiday literature, that in addition to the one mentioned earlier, Igor Omarze, we also read the Hidden Command of the Dear Potocnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Now I invite you to the word "magic." Majdo Potrat. You've only got a minute left.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u100	Thank you. It'll be enough to say what I think. I would like to talk about the deleted, the Roma, the same-sex and other minorities that we are now talking about, who have not been protected and who have been violated by human rights. I never said I was ashamed to be a Slovene. However, I have said that I am ashamed that my country has caused an injustice which it does not want to admit and which it has recognised only after the decision of the European Court of Human Rights and when it will have to and when it has to pay compensation only after that decision. If this country were to put anything in the legal order, it would take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court which found that the treatment of deleted persons was inappropriate and the State, the Minister of the Interior and others would take into account that people had the right to stay and should not be forcibly relocated. I'm talking about the Roma family. There's a lot to talk about. What Happened to Our Father [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We now have Mr Zvonko Černač and Jani Möderndorfer to discuss. It will be followed by the representatives of the Government and eventually by the proposer. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u102	A nice greeting to all present from my side! 22 years ago, Slovenia became a single country. At that time Yugoslavia was ahead of economic and political bankruptcy. Yugoslavia did not act as a state governed by law. It has severely violated human rights, and Slovenia has escaped disaster in the last minute. On that day, 22 years ago, the flag of the former totalitarian country, which would have spilled more Slovenian blood than it had been in the war of independence, would have honored the will of some of the then political peacekeepers — including the then President of the Presidency Milan Kučan — who, in the most crucial days for the preservation and defence of Slovenian sovereignty, signed the declaration on Slovenia without weapons and the army, and who, as an absurd one, later sat down, some still held high-ranking political positions in the independent Slovenian state. Then, 22 years ago, after the Yugoslav flag was removed, the flag of the newly formed Slovenian State was lifted on drugs. At that time, I believe that we have generally believed that we have done this symbolic act forever with the former non-democratic state, and we also believe that we have done so through the methods of the former non-democratic regime. Yugoslavia and its undemocratic methods with an undemocratic regime worth — as we thought at the time — went to the dump site of history. We sincerely looked forward to this fact, not the whole policy. Even then, some who were surprised by the democratic processes and, above all, surprised by the unity of the Slovenian people, acted with a fig in their pocket. It is difficult to expect conversion from those who have been the bearers of political power in the non-democratic regime for most of their lives. Nevertheless, 22 years ago, we believed that we would be able to make new democratic gains. At that time, we believed that the times of the revolutionary judiciary were past that they could not return. We believed that when we wrote down in the Constitution that Slovenia was a democratic state based on the rule of law, respect for human rights and freedoms, and that we had left in the Constitution and laws formal provisions talking about the establishment of a new democratic order, the free economic initiative and other democratic rights and freedoms, we had always done with undemocratic procedures and with thoughtfulness, and we believed, above all, that we had done with the iconography of the former country, which was at the time we left it, on the brink of economic bankruptcy and on the threshold of civil war. Today, after 22 years, we can tell that we've obviously counted. Clearly, those who ruled us before 1990 were unable to accept democratic change. Slovenia has formally implemented all the changes made to the group of countries with democratic arrangements, but has not made this leap in substantive terms. Unfortunately, not in all 22 years. Not only have the old political centres of power been preserved in Slovenia, they have also established their position in individual systems and subsystems, especially in the judiciary, the economy, the education system and the media. Under the coat of independence and independence of the individual branches of government, we are ruled by monopolies controlled by the same people who had power before the establishment of the independent state, or by their successors who did not receive these powers in elections, but by the control of these monopolies in the economy, the media, education, justice and elsewhere. The longer we close our eyes to these facts, the longer we will sink into economic recession and collapse. In 1996, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted resolution No. 1096 on measures to eliminate the legacy of totalitarian communist systems. The consequences of such a failed transition resulting from this resolution suggest that these consequences may vary. The most important talk today is that, at best, there will be an oligarchy instead of democracy, corruption instead of rule of law and organised crime instead of human rights. In the worst case that can happen if such a situation lasts too long, it will result in a velvety renewal of the totalitarian regime, if not even the collapse of the democracy. The resolution raises a number of other questions that have already been mentioned today. At institutional level, this heritage includes over-centralisation, bureaucracy, monopolisation, regulatory over-regulation and, at company level, collectiveism and conformism, blind obedience and other ways and forms of totalitarian action and concepts. With us, the predictions and fears of the Council of Europe have been realized practically in full. The transition to actual democracy in Slovenia failed. She didn't make it. This is what many of the facts we have in front of our eyes each day are about. In Slovenia, there are oligarchic links that create conditions for systemic corruption and crime as a result of the above-mentioned abuse of the legal norms and legal framework for non-democratic action. Some high policy calls on the state bank and, on the basis of this intervention, this bank grants a loan for a mega-Romanian project of more than €115 million, which it knows will never be reimbursed at the time of approval. Nothing happens to anyone, not to the bankers who approved this loan, not to Mr Jankovic's high policy, who not only publicly acknowledged this act, but even publicly praised him on TV, but it is a familiar time, a place, a way of service of action with a concrete promise of a gift worth over €115 million. In this case, can we talk about the rule of law? Is this about organized crime? Is it just a crime that is measured at a value of a few hundred or a thousand euros? Who, in this case, are the connected oligarchs who, on behalf of national interest, have for a number of years exhausted state banks and state-owned enterprises or democratic institutions, those who are to be democratically elected to these institutions? It's all the cases you want. It would probably be a list if you listed those who deviate from the fact that there are oligarchs and organised crime in Slovenia, but less so. This case will require all taxpayers, especially young people who come after us, to pay a number of years of this through increased taxes, and thus threaten their future and have poorer conditions compared to peers in other democratic countries. Come on, let's do something for young ladies and gentlemen. Something concrete, not just speaking for the speaker, how unnecessary and irrelevant this debate is. The purpose of this debate was to sober up, to wake up some, and to take the path that we can come to the final country, which will be based on the rule of law and which will be truly democratic. Hundreds of millions of Euros of loans that have disappeared in unsecured loans, mainly the largest state bank and others – not one has been tried for these hundreds of millions, let alone convicted. According to the corruption index in the business world, Slovenia is at the top of the ranking, in front of our neighbour Croatia. Our justice is ineffective, too expensive. The right for many comes too late, against other processes is outdated, and for those who are chosen there are certain high compensations. A typical example — you could list them in dozens — is Mirage. For a project that was written on the skin of a particular provider and was invented and legalized so that this private person could serve abnormally on some unnecessary car stickers that turned out to have no practical application value, it happened — what? Finally, the Court found that the State must pay some compensation to this entrepreneur for the "lost" profits – a calculation that is obviously known only to those who have signed up under such a judgment. This justice, we have already talked about, cannot be reformed much under the current leadership, as the Supreme Court and the Attorney General's Office are leading the people who in the previous regime have violated fundamental human rights in their work in the judiciary, and it is impossible to expect them to bring about the necessary changes, reforms of the entire judiciary. Slovenia has become a haven for the Balkan drug industry and criminals with ties condemned in other European countries. The evidence from other European countries is not sufficient for suspects who were directly caught selling huge amounts of drugs. The court lets them go, they walk free. While in custody, they conclude legal transactions, notary records to protect their assets, so that they would not be seized if they were processed. We could say that instead of the rule of law, we have the rule of the Balkan warriors. On the other hand, they condemn innocent people without evidence. In the case of Fojkar, they were willing to admit this error only after 11 years of judicial calvary, after 11 years when they had destroyed this man’s life to the end. But they weren't even prepared to apologize for that. The President of the Slovenian Democratic Party was convicted at first instance because he was about to receive an unknown promise of a prize in an unknown way for a party — without evidence. In a process of flowering, such as the fact that the suspects are supposed to meet in the house of the former Maribor mayor, the prominent representative of the Social Democrats, Dr Boris Sovic, despite the fact that the same Mr Sovič does not have a house. On the other hand, for a concrete promise of a gift to the former European Member of the Social Democrats, which has been recorded and proved, since the Member of the Social Democrats has undertaken to submit or vote in favour of the proposal for 100 000 euros, after more than three years of the public record of the video of his conduct has not been submitted, nor has the defendant, much more. Known time, known place, mode of service and concrete promise of a gift. All recorded, presented to the public. In countries where democracy really rules, where we really deal with rule of law, such cases would not have happened. I can tell you more. In some respects, the former non-democratic country has been more democratic in recent years before it breathed out than Slovenia is today. Twenty-five years ago, the authorities of that time did not hope to initiate a lawsuit against Janša, Borštner, Tasic and Zavrlu for allegedly issuing a state secret before a civil court, but after the Slovenian uprising had taken hold of it, they trusted the military prosecution and the military court to wash their hands by Pilate. The transition to actual democracy in Slovenia failed. The continuation of the processes following the failed transition leads, as we are reminded by the text of the Council of Europe resolution, to the formal renewal of the former totalitarian regime and to the preservation of the oligarchy instead of democracy, corruption instead of the rule of law and organised crime instead of respect for human rights, all of this under the cover of formal democratic frameworks – a situation which is very poor and which is hopelessly particularly for the young generation. In two decades, the policy of so-called national interest, coupled with socialist rhetoric, has established a system of state ownership and a vast state apparatus, which, with inefficiency and too much cost, undermines the future of the young generation and the foundations of long-term prosperity. There's as many cases as you want. Since the power supply of the largest state bank, where over €3 million in tax money went to New KBM, where state-owned companies have been forced to invest around €50 million, now worth around €3 million, to Mercator, where only 400 million euros have been lost in the last two years. Today we can see that there is unfortunately no awareness of where we are in the political majority of this House. Sealing your eyes before reality and thinking that the situation will sort itself out — it won’t work. The Government rejects the adoption of recommendations that would allow the necessary reforms to be initiated in constitutional and legislative mechanisms that would allow for impartial and independent trial within reasonable time limits and prevent the abuse of law for political or other non-constitutional purposes. It rejects reforms that would allow the elimination of monopolies in many areas that stifle and prevent our development. The ruling majority thus rejects the possibility of democratic change and fully assumes responsibility for the situation in society and the country. The decommissioning of the rule of the oligarchy will obviously not take place. Obviously, we will continue to be ruled by such or other criminal associations under the cover of formal legal frameworks. We will witness some trials that, by condemning those that the oligarchy can sacrifice, will ensure the provision of the most important oligarchs whose task will continue to be the maintenance of monopolies. Only that part of unnecessary state property will be sold, which will not significantly undermine the positions of those who actually rule. Young people will continue to live in an unsuspecting country. The most educated and capable will continue to leave the country. They will be given only small amounts from various funds, and they will not be given the best jobs to show their knowledge, abilities that could only be achieved through the decommissioning of state, economic, banking and other monopolies. However, with respect and respect, the couple in this pot will gather. There's more to the room today, but it'll be less every day. The responsibility for the explosion that will occur sooner or later if we put our heads in the sand or push our heads into the sand of those who have the greatest responsibility must be taken over by those who are not aware of the seriousness of these situations today. The iconography that we saw at the end of April at the Stožice, the singing "Let Live Communism!"which we had the opportunity to listen to on the screens also from the mouth of Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek, the applause of the highest Slovenian official elite to those who blamed the ugly Europe with its leaders on the forehead, and the cheering of the flags of a country that is no longer – all of this will help our young generations absolutely nothing. With the actions of this government, we will be more poor every day, not only young, but all of us – except dedicated oligarchs, who will become even more rich on behalf of this ideology, as they have done in the past 22 years. After the budget rebalancing, and this government also allocates substantial grants in the form of such or other subsidies, with the last amendment of the law, there is no need for them to have any insurance. These funds will do something similar to what is now happening with a billion 200 million euro of the bad claims of our largest state bank. In the end, all taxpayers will have to cover them. I will support the recommendations proposed because I want to make real changes possible and thus prevent them from happening when it is too late. The ones who are laughing on the other side today and who are part of this ruling elite, I must say, I feel sorry for you in some way. Many among you may not even understand what is going on at this time, and you are forgiven for this. I don't want to repeat that river that talks about not being insulting. But those who know what this is all about — those who cannot be forgiven if these [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Tinker Bell. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. The speaker spoke about some icons, various ideas and thoughts, and I can say that it is difficult to discuss things when different things are happening in between, and he does not even know that certain things have changed in the meantime. Today we will not vote on any recommendations, as you wanted to support them, or say you will support them. We are not going to discuss this mainly because this is actually a debate today. I must say that we have spoken in the coalition since you made the request for an extraordinary meeting and once you have prepared the entire basis for a substantive discussion at today's extraordinary session. At the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, we supported you and said it was right. That is correct, and the time you requested for the debate has also been approved. He was approved for one simple reason — because we wanted to hear what you would have to say. Today, except for the fact that many unilateral truths have been told — some call them lies and pretenses — I can say that we have not heard anything new. All we heard was what you wanted to create. You want to create a division of people, you want to create a cultural struggle, you want to create a situation of some kind of apparent opposition to everything. What is most sad about the whole matter – instead of being connected where you should be, even in the role of the opposition, to which you most often, one more year ago, you were referring, if it is right for the opposition and the coalition to come together at certain times, you really want and expect this dissension to remain. In Positive Slovenia, we simply cannot accept such action, especially because we are sure, and I hope that today people do not see it, that they prefer to enjoy the beautiful weather outside and do something useful for themselves, and do not listen to this shameful speech you make with these truths, their truths and their half-truths. It is particularly important that you are in today's play or, as my predecessor said, in the iconography, in fact, tell how much you feel about this society, about the development of this country and what you are prepared to do for this country. That is why we cannot support such a course. I would love to know how much it cost us all to sit here today and we must listen because you know that even if we did not sit here, we had to follow you and we could follow you without further – how much it cost to go through this hack, which is fruitless, inefficient, useless and in some way also embarrassing to this temple of democracy. In the end, let me say the essential thing. I believe that at least some of us have made use of today's time to seriously prepare for next week's regular meeting, where we will discuss important things for the future and development. Unfortunately, we will also deal with the budget, which is still the budget of your government and we will also have to correct it because of your mistakes. Once again, I have to say that this session is not proud of me or honor, and I must say that today I am seriously thinking that I will be difficult to explain to my constituents and voters why we have worked in the National Assembly today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. We continue the debate. Representative of the Government, Mrs Tina Brecelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! To conclude, I would like to point out once again, stressing the Government's position. According to the Government, the proposed four points of the recommendations concerning the state of democracy in the Republic of Slovenia, today, 2013, 9 years after the Republic of Slovenia entered the European Union and became a member of NATO and 20 years after Slovenia entered the Council of Europe, cannot be followed. Slovenia is a state of constitutional democracy, a state of law and a country that respects the independence of the judiciary and the independence of judges. Since the Government is already taking important steps to ensure even higher standards of rule of law, and because we believe that the latter is the common goal of all of us, honourable Members and Members, we want your constructive cooperation in the coming week when there will be two important novels on your tables regulating the functioning of the courts and a novel regulating the rights and obligations of the officers of the judiciary. Since the issue of trial was somewhat earlier exposed within a reasonable time frame, I would also like to say that the first of the mentioned novels, the new Law on Courts, brings an important novelty. It provides that it is necessary to establish time standards for the operation of all types of courts by type of case and by stage of proceedings. As we say, it's an important novelty. This novelty is one of those with which we want to achieve higher standards of rule of law, and the trial of our courts where we do not yet do so, to shorten, within reasonable time limits. As it is said, the Government's position on the proposed recommendations is clear. Today, it has been repeatedly stressed that next week, as regards the priorities of this government – the provision of even higher rule of law standards – is very important. Finally, I'm going to refer to my predecessor's words and say that next week's opportunity to come together on important matters is to step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u107	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. The fact that they do not know how to explain anything in Positive Slovenia is clear to us. They couldn't explain the fiscal rule, they didn't understand any other things, but after one visit to Brussels they understood that a fiscal rule had to be adopted. In the introduction, a colleague of Grimes said how much this country cost. Just because some did not understand, let alone explain what a fiscal rule is and what it is intended for. Today we face the fact that the country is dominated by monopolies. He remained almost entirely untouched by the state ownership monopoly and remained a judicial monopoly as well as a media monopoly. None of this has changed radically during the transition period. It remained as it had been managed until the beginning of the transition, until independence or a few years earlier. These systems were then operated by grey eminences, and they are now controlled by gray eminence. This is what the state's highest representative is talking about. This is what Mr Pahor said, and this is also what the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption concluded last year and this year, and this year, it issued a report on the situation in the banking system. The cores that operate to manage the property of this country are preserved in a way that is not prescribed, which is not legal, which is not legal. This is managed by client networks with political connotation. This is for sure, and that is why the debate that you have given up today is one of the biggest obstacles. What the current Prime Minister and the Anti-Corruption Commission have found is difficult to defend. None of you stood up for not holding it. When the representative of the Government and the Minister speak before them about the rule of law and democratic regulation, they are confused. That's not true. There is no rule of law in the functioning of the banking system. You know exactly how much money has been distributed on the basis of arranged transactions and phone calls, political interventions. In 2010, 2011 the representatives of the government, including the current Prime Minister of the Government, boasted that they had done all they could to grant a loan for a project in Ljubljana. The policy directly intervened in order to allocate certain funds. When we had an investigative commission dealing with the Municipality of Ljubljana, it was found at this investigative commission that there was an irregularity that there were suspicions of crimes, that the documents of the investigative commission were transmitted to the authorities, but after two years nothing happened in this area. Some who are suspected of such crimes are still able to perform their functions. Those who are with him are still defending him and pretending that everything is fine. When you talk about commitments in the judicial system signed by the Government, the Ministry and the Supreme Court, it was just a form to cover someone who was objectively responsible for the functioning of the system and kept it in office. In these specific cases, no cases have been investigated by the investigative commission investigating the Municipality of Ljubljana without knowing. No specific investigation was made. He's probably standing on the D.A.'s office. There hasn't been a trial yet. I'm asking you what the rule of law is. We have similar cases that stand for 5 years in court or 7 years in prosecution cases and are not being processed. What is the rule of law in this country? It is not, for some are apparently covered in one way or another, are protected. Cases are brought against some others on the basis of unknown facts. Where we have specific cases of damage, where we have specific cases of financial routes, transactions from public to private with accurate remittances, with dates of remittances, with a jump from one company to another, and end up on some private route, nothing happens. What is the problem here or in the equality of the rule of law? We have cases. For example, in 2003, I said one when the government sold Systemic Technology cheaply to one of the members of the then ruling Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. She practically donated it, not sold it, for a lousy amount. A few months later, there was a transfer of the sale of this property to a foreign partner for a few times the higher amount, namely the minority part of that company. A few months after this deal came up with a letter of intent for almost EUR 300 million for a specific project. Nobody's seen any mistakes in this business. That it was a politically agreed project, it's probably clear to everyone. It was clear to everyone, to the present and to the present. Probably chasing the authorities, probably even the Court of Auditors. What is the problem of not processing such things when clearly proven decisions, privileged conduct, back-to-back corruption deals. What's the problem? The rule of law or the rule of someone else, and where else? Even when the Commission was set up to prevent corruption due to major media pressures, due to transactions in 2003, 2004, when the government of Rop said goodbye, this investigation was not directed against those who had concluded such a business, but against those who had launched an international public tender. Something similar is happening as the cancellation of an electronic toll call when no one can satisfactorily explain why the invitation to tender has been cancelled. All would be paid by someone third, not by the state, not by the state budget. A whole bunch of stupid things happen, and nobody can explain why. We know that a lot of business was financed from the banking system, a lot of business, and every now and then the banking system got in trouble. That's when the preparations for recapitalisation started, and people prepared for trouble. Many excuses have recently gone to the European Union that we are in a difficult situation because of the European Union. That's not true. The European Union is the only segment from which this country gets more than that, in a financial sense, it can probably also in terms of democratic values, standards, ethics and more. At the moment, the European Union is the only one from which Slovenia markets and serves, but this government is so good that it will give up much of the work, much of the resources that it could draw from the European Union. For one euro in the investment we have to invest, we get three, four euros of European funding, depending on the share of co-financing. That's what the government's giving up. Even though the balance in business with the European Union is positive, the European system and European standards are being criticised. What's the point of that? What's the problem here? Is there no machination? Is client business off-limits? Is the influence of those who want to do things their way? The problem is not the European Union, we are alone. Until we resolve these problems ourselves within our subsystems, as well as the administration of the country, there are probably no important steps that can be taken to improve the situation in this area. These things can be moved or moved, redirected. One of the monopolies helps you a lot. Perhaps this media monopoly serves you abundantly in monitoring today, but things will not improve. That's why the situation won't improve. Nothing will happen, no matter how you show that you've been able to scan these things through the media. Facts come to every budget, every budget balance, every financial law, every thing. When a matter is given or reduced, the effect of such conduct comes directly. You have submitted a budget with these accompanying documents. Since the President of the Government, sometimes a Member, spoke about how to make a developmental budget, I wonder how much development is in this budget if funds for past commitments are increasing. There is a substantial increase in funds for what she has already advocated in these three months, and more is likely to be necessary, if possible. How many investments will there be in this government's development budget, which could do anything like this? How much social will there be? I remember that in a much better time, in 2004-2008, one of the Members sitting on my right was carrying the seats to the then President of the Government because the children are hungry and hungry because they are old and do not have enough resources. Today, when the situation is really bad when these resources are practically halved, the colleague is quiet. It does not discuss social issues, it does not fight for its government's projects, it does not defend them, it is quiet, it does not come with the positions in the National Assembly. This is the effect of this knowledge and these beams of Slovenia. Some grow in one way or another. The next week you want so badly, there will be a brutal confrontation. You bring new taxes, additional burdens on citizens, you bring additional reductions in social transfers, to help people in distress, and you bring nothing with regard to the privileged layer. Nothing. Those who enjoy a privileged work from public funds are intact, are protected by the ZUJF, are protected by such and different decisions, but that crowd of social beneficiaries for certain transfers – those can be taken. There's no protest, there's nothing going on. This part is about social justice, and there is a lot to be done. Because of what you bring to the National Assembly, there will probably be no new jobs. There's probably going to be a brain drain, an even more intense brain drain. I'm sure it'll come because these things are already announced. As a result of such practices, when certain groups are operating enormous amounts of money along legal routes, such measures are necessary to be redistributed across all citizens. Remember, the state monopoly, I don't know, Mr. Weber said between 8 billion and 12 billion assets. It's state property. It was heard that the management company, the management agency, operated as the best possible host in 2011 – the best year of government management. That year, which was top-notch, 470 million euros had more recapitalisations of state assets, such as dividends, for 470 million. 16 times as many of this state silver needed it to operate at all, to have employees as it had the effect of this state property. Where'd it go? There are also state monopolies among these companies, there are also institutions where they cannot be looked at, because they were protected by legislation because the Bank of Slovenia did not want to touch them either. Where did it go? Where did those enormous amounts go? Does anyone know how to explain this? As regards the rule of law, the problem is that this company does not react to customer or corruption client business because it does not initiate criminal proceedings in the case of persons involved in such transactions. This is probably also related to human resources work, with human resources policy in these areas. All key appointments take place on some strange human resources route. People come to the top of these institutions who have such or different burdens from their past. Everywhere you look comes people who have a mortgage, usually from the period before 1991. Look at the justice system, see if there's any later cases. Therefore, it is also clear why things are not being processed. As far as the political issue is concerned, I will read to you a statement by Moshe Pijada in 1942, where he mentioned in some address: "Only the unfortunates become communists, so we must create an accident and bring the crowds to despair. We are mortal enemies of all prosperity, order and peace." In view of what is happening, the rule of law in this period is unable to establish that there are no processes against those who have submitted requests for a procedure to overburden people, especially those at the border of becoming unfortunate and poor, the political orientation of this coalition is such that it leads to a paradigm that is written here, which is its problem. Instead of fighting to create a society of prosperity, to reduce tax burdens, to encourage development, the trend of this coalition goes in the opposite direction. There are additional burdens, there are additional taxes, higher penalties, etc. The symbol of this period is the red star. The symbol of the times when only the unfortunates become Communists is the red star. The red star symbolizes in some way the technology you use in these masses. This year you provoked or staged a series of protests aimed at removing those who stole the country from power. In this part, only two cases are known, Kangler in Maribor and former Prime Minister Janez Janša. If Janshoe is convicted of an event that cannot be defined, he is probably not convicted of stealing the country, but he is to receive a payment promise in an unknown place one day. Against those who actually stole the country – that is what Borut Pahor spoke about when he was Prime Minister and reported to the Commission on anti-corruption – but there are no procedures and no more protests. That's symptomatic. In view of the way things are going, we see that there is no more appropriate dialogue with protestors and trade unions, and that things are being handled forcefully. The interesting thing is, too, that these protests are gone now that the situation has deteriorated radically. It's probably too hot, but not the weather, not the climate, but it's probably too hot for this government. As long as the actions of those who should decide and implement these measures, such will not be the rule of law or progress, and what is going on will continue to happen. If we do nothing to break down the monopolies, then we can only expect the realization of the paradigm of the Moshe Pijada – a systematic approach to the creation of the poor, even the communists, but what much of life in this common country will no one have. We are opposed to such processes. We are in favour of adopting and implementing all the norms necessary for the functioning of the rule of law or for the rule of law and that those who have done anything in this part have adopted, transferred, etc. are responsible for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u109	Thank you very much. All the panellists have been given the floor, and the time for discussion is still available, so I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. I see more desire for a debate. Opening login option. 27 registered. Just give us a moment to figure out the technical distribution of time. There are 4 minutes for each debater. The first is Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u110	Thank you very much again. Yes, we're not voting on anything today. But who took care of it? The one who has a minority, or the one who has a majority? Who is the one who has made it possible to manipulate the public and speak of this debate as irrelevant and unnecessary today? The ones you have most. You yourself have caused a state in which no decision can be made. At the same time, you deceive and manipulate the public and say how irrelevant this debate is. Something similar is happening in other substantive issues, which have been discussed today and which have also led to this debate being proposed. Whether the opposition is responsible for the state of Slovenia today, let us ask ourselves. With the increased taxes to be paid this year by the population on VAT, real estate, various taxes and all the rest, you assume that the rebalance in 2013 will reduce the revenue provided for in this title. Who is the one who will pay the price of these mistakes from the past and also from today who say that Slovenia is not a country based on the rule of law and where democratic attributes rule and certain oligarchic backgrounds govern it? How can you, at the same time as taking money with the weakest balance and thus making it impossible for young people to have a perspective, allocate substantial state resources in the form of subsidies to state-owned enterprises that will no longer be able to be saved, as private companies, for which it is now known that these funds will never be returned, otherwise they would not change the law under which no insurance is required? All of these funds, which have already been in the past years at hundreds of millions of euros and which will be in the coming years, this year and the next, are obviously hundreds of millions of euros, which will make Slovenia more indebted at the end of your government, whenever this end is already, than it is today, someone will have to settle. Who's gonna pay for all this in the end? All of this will ultimately be paid by the young generation, those who are supposed to represent some further development potential for the future, and cannot. Why can't they? Because there are still individual clienteleistic networks in this country, linked to such or other backgrounds, some of which were already discussed in the first part of the debate. If that were not the case, be sure that Mercator's sale would not take place in a year and a half to the same buyer for EUR 400 million. No one's asked what he was doing about a year and a half ago and what he's doing today. Let us just look at the public records in the media about this story and ask ourselves if we really live in a democratic and legal state, whether we are part of the former Balkan chaos. The next story is state recapitalisation in individual companies, where in recent years hundreds of millions of euros have been lost. The account will come eventually, it will be exhibited, and it will be paid by those on behalf of whom you are now saying that this debate is wrong today, that it is unnecessary, that it will not have any effect. It is high time for you to be sober and to begin processes that will allow those who have stolen this common property to come to safety, and that opportunity will be given to all those who are capable of having ideas and who now that they have completed the schooling have no perspective.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Jerko Čehovin would be next, but Positive Slovenia has announced that all the applicants have given up the word. That's why it's Mrs. Majda Potrat's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. If I ask myself what today's debate has brought to me, then I must say that I have heard that the national catharsis has not been carried out, that the cleansing has not happened, that I am living in the currently weakened system, and that there has been a complete deformation of society. I do not agree with these indications, I protest against them and they are offensive to me as a citizen of this country. Especially for, as I say, an educated man. With regard to everything else that has been discussed today, and the talk has been about many things, discussions could be held in the framework of the legislative process. These opportunities have been and will be, and the things that have been said here have been said many times. But because today's debate was related to the state of democracy and because Council of Europe resolution No. 1096, however, it should be said that there is something very clear to be said about this lustration legislation. The proposed law, which my colleague Sam Bevk was talking about, I reviewed from front to back. There is no time limit in this law for how long the cleansing of Slovenia must take place. The only time frame recorded is that the mandate of the seven lustration judges or the judges of the lustration court is 10 years. This, however, takes until Slovenia is cleansed. How long has it been, I don't know. In particular, I would like to point out that in resolution No. 1096 is written that these procedures may continue until 31 December 1999. This resolution states in several places that treatment must be individual, that lustration must not be revenge, but the aim of lustration within 5 years is to prevent the injury of emerging democracies. Those who have read anything else that has been added to this resolution should also read among the conclusions and recommendations that when we consider the legacy of the former totalitarian communist regimes, they should be fair to everyone, both to the victims of the former regime and to the elite who had previously been in power. Justice demands no vengeance. When I listen to all these discussions by the proponents, everything is flattened, everything is set straight to the level of deformation, criminalisation and similar things. I don't agree with that. This resolution specifically requires that everything should be carried out in accordance with the legislation in force so as not to be retroactive. Perhaps what Herman Schwartz said should also be said – that very precise criteria should be followed, how lustration should be defined and how lustration procedures should be carried out, and that what Severin of Romania, as an initiator of this resolution, specifically said is not against communism, but against totalitarianism, which [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Today, it has been repeatedly said that the former president of our party, Borut Pahor, was very lonely in his views or that we did not support him. I looked at the Magnography of the meetings when, 16 years ago, we discussed both the motion for a resolution on the illegal functioning of the communist totalitarian regime and the proposal for a law on the elimination of these consequences. At that time, the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the United List of Social Democrats was presented by the President of Borut Pahor. In his introduction, he said that the Slovenians have won many important battles over the past 10 years. At least two of them are key to democratic society and to a single state. And one battle we didn't seem to be able to win, and this battle we're fighting with ourselves. This is a battle to establish a Slovenian national historical memory. Obviously, there is a big, important, very harsh difference between us in terms of how long we have lived for 50 years, etc. Finally, he said the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the United List of Social Democrats – that was our name at the time – regarding both the law and the resolution, and said: "I think that the lustration law and the resolution on the half-life, as proposed, are bad texts to be rejected. The United List considers them unacceptable and proposes that we reject them." At that time, the President was with us and with him, as always, throughout his presidency.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. The fact is that we have not done some of the things that we should have done and not any other country, so this resolution was adopted in 1996 at all. Some colleagues said that Slovenia was a rule of law and a democratic state, and then they gave out half an hour about what was wrong and what was wrong, and I agree with that. Slovenia comes first after corruption. From where? This may not have happened to us yesterday, but it's been happening to us for the past 20 years. Networks have been mentioned, including Forum 21. The founding members are directors of bankrupt companies today. Although they had access to favourable loans all the time, they are poor masters, but they have yachts, villas, bills in Cyprus and elsewhere. We read or saw, with amazement after 18 years of independent state, that he became advisor to Minister Križanič, Minister of the SD of the Government, who in just three years had doubled the public debt and in three years had done as long as the governments before her, Mr Isajlović, 1950, today 63 years old, a staff member of the former State Security Service who violated human rights, and participated in the arrest of Janez Janša, etc. But for the former Minister of Finance, he was a good consultant. Similarly, Mr Zemlarič, whom they say is leading a number of things from his office in the WTC business building, that virtually no appointment and business goes past him. The Lord is the year 1928, now 85 years old. In the former non-democratic system was the protector of Ivan Cat - Matija, and he led the Judgment, which the court called a criminal organization. He was the President of the Executive Council, a lobbyist, involved in the planning of various projects, including in health care, where most of the investments were well earned by such consultants and were overpaid by taxpayers. The Lord has also established societies in tax havens and still has them. It would be interesting to know how much money is stored in banks abroad. We haven't done anything in the media field. We can't get through a single right-hand diary to at least make it look like there's no unilateral reporting in the media area. The imbalance of the media, which is the basis and also the achievement of democracy, also shows how many journalists have been in political parties. Except for two or three of them are all in left parties – Male, Žgajner Tavš, Gulič, Fajon, Župevc, Simčič, Smolnikar, Meršol, Klasinc, Drčar Murko. Can that tell us anything? It tells us how targeted journalists we have. All honor to rare exceptions. In the field of justice, we have the most expensive judiciary, the most judges per capita and at the same time the most lagging behind. We have a preoccupation between bankruptcy administrators and judges, cooperation with lawyers who serve enormously, thousands of unfinished stories, obsolete cases, protecting friends. Because there was no lustration. In East Germany, most of the judges were replaced. Constitutional Judge Jan Zobst says: "The leading cities in the judiciary are occupied by a generation which was raised and educated during the period of socialism and which therefore still belongs to a degree of thought – in relation to work, profession, in terms of the role played by the judiciary in society. By the way, I belong to this generation myself. This generation is the one that has the most powerful influence on the mental structure of the judiciary. It gradually restores the entire judicial body, but the mindset remains. Instead of changing this mentality, we accept different legal changes." Why do we need to talk today about the resolution? There are still many areas in which we have done nothing. Do we have democracy or do we have oligarchy or do we have organized crime or human rights? We read about organised crime every day, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is amazing, I have to tell you again in the introduction, what I have heard in Parliament today, what the coalition and the government have said – that we have an independent judiciary and a judicial branch of power. Have you ever wondered what Slovenian man thinks about this? Have you ever asked yourself that? Do you live in the clouds or in the Antarctic? Do you really live there? Do you not know your people at all? Don't you listen to what people say? Do you know public opinion research? Dear colleagues and colleagues, many times today it has been said and reiterated that this debate has nothing to do with the current situation in the country. National List: This debate is a waste of time, SD: we have not felt the need to convene this meeting, Positive Slovenia: debate due to debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what do you think Slovenians and Slovenians say about this? From the majority of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would have received the following reply: "Our society is not democratic, it is not a rule of law, it is far from a just society that provides equal opportunities, equal rights and equal conditions for life in our society or in our country." We'd like to say more. Instead of the rule of law, we have on the one hand the rule of corruption, the rule of privileges, thieves and uncles from behind, and on the other hand the majority, which is difficult to survive in this country every month. When we talk about the rule of law, I would like to list some of the achievements that have been proven and harmful to the Slovenian people: Satex, Sicura, Elan, Zbiljski Gaj, Orion, Maribor Car Factory, prosecutors that I am not talking about Railway and Penk. A police officer who threatens Janez Janša as Prime Minister was forgiven, someone who threatened Borut Pahori gets 11 years in prison. Balkan warrior absolved, John Janša without any evidence condemned. Is that democracy? Is that the rule of law? Where are the bankers, the recipients of the loans that came from the back of the uncles? Where are the tycoons, the robbers? Are they convicted? Is this the rule of law? I am sure that in Slovenia there will be no democracy and rule of law until there is a change in the leadership of the judiciary until most media houses get owners who will not politically interfere with the content of writing journalists and put in place editors who have to control and give instructions on what they can write and what they cannot do until the influence of the uncles in the background is prevented and until people who support such a system sit in the Chamber of Democracy. The debate was absolutely very important. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia listened carefully to this debate and agree with this debate in most cases. Dear Coalition and Government, the moment has come for you to start thinking about yourself, and the Slovenians will tell you in time what they think of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Some things need to be said to the public. We applied for a discussion a little earlier. That's enough time. The Ambassadors of Positive Slovenia have spent the whole day sitting where, by which buffet or anywhere else. When they checked in, they checked in, they left in one minute to disable our discussion. Now we have a leader here, Mr. Möderndorfer, without an army. But Mr Möderndorfer spoke a little earlier about whether you would accept the budget next week to correct the budget because of the mistakes we have made. At this point, I will continue to refer to what I said earlier in the debate. In the debate I said earlier that you have come to power at the expense of the monopolies that rule this country, at the expense of the so-called civil society organisations, which have also carried out demonstrations and thus helped you in power. Why are you fixing the budget? You will give more information to the information officer, give more to the KPK, give more to the former president, give more or you will give better money to the veteran organisations. Mr Vizjak made it very clear in the previous term – they receive veteran organisations on the basis of programmes. Now the thing goes back to percent – the union of fighters is just over 60, and everyone else is so much less. Who did the demonstration? Who screamed and supported the demonstrations? Taist. I don't know if I lost anyone. I don't think I missed anyone. Where will you take it when you're in the budget? You'll take social transfers, the amount of social assistance. You have already reduced wages, raised prices with VAT, cadastral income, maternity leave, etc. Can you explain to me why? Why these people more? Former President of the State anymore, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption more, the information officer and also a veteran organisation with a value. You'll pay. At the expense of the taxpayer's money, where you took it, because you're going to delete those who have 300, 400, 500 euros. You're gonna take what they got, and now you're gonna pay. You will pay those who have kept you in power, or you will pay those who have helped you get back into power. That's the problem, but people need to know. I'd take you about 10 minutes to perform, but I don't have it, because the MPs came to the hall, did the time-sharing and went to the first buffet or home. If the Slovenians hadn't heard it, our citizens wouldn't have heard it. You can laugh as much as you want, but the fact is that you take every step of the way to the poor and give to those who already have too much, from the former President, the Information Commissioner, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption to veteran organisations. The payment for the work done is called that, but you have to tell the citizens that you will give them a little more credit so that you can pay to be in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Despite all the efforts, despite Mr Möderndorfer's deplorable attitude towards the resolution at that time and its predictions, I do not know of the same depravity today, although I do not know of any topics that Mr Brulc wanted to accompany us with Germany when it appears that the Germans have us as a slave nation, although he knows well that President Napolitano, who is a communist, spoke very disdainfully about the Slavs and Slovenians on 10 February. Nevertheless, reflection is necessary and, on the basis of reflection, a forward view. Our people need to ask themselves what happened to this promising country that it got so messed up. I particularly warn young people, students, students and those who have graduated and are in a totally hopeless situation to think about what the Council of Europe is in resolution No. 1096 said that if you do not break up these old communist methods, there will be the rule of the oligarchy over democracy, the rule of corruption over the rule of law, the rule of organised crime over human rights. All three things have come to a catastrophic end. In the Czech Republic, Poland followed these guidelines, followed these recommendations, and today they have economic growth, flourishing. These two countries beat us to the punch, and so did the others who did. Let young people think about the dangers of the Möderndorfers when they despise what is the fruit of reflection in Europe. I believe that they are also in the path of this in Positive Slovenia, because they are typically an oligarchic structure. Since the oligarch is now the mayor, he commands everything because his sons are accidentally owed only 5 million taxes. Do you have any idea what the profit was?Oh, my God! Tax! That's his debt, too. From what they've cheated the country, they've been working for a new client for 14 days, and they've been seducing people to win. All of this happened. These are totalitarian communist methods. That is why they are so angry at this resolution and their view of the future without that burden. Earlier, someone had said why in such a crazed crisis, in such a terrible state for young people, no one is calling for a resurrection. On the basis of intrigues, young, honest people were lured to demonstrations and asked them with insinuations, but now they are working in a different direction. Now there's been an abuse of intelligence! Think about it. Journalist Karba wrote this week that Dr. Andrej Kurnik had supervised the director of the Owl under the previous government in order to make Kurnik's group, which is the leader of the anti-globalists and some other groups, persistently bitter against this opposition, against these parties. But the truth is different! We who were in intelligence know that 10 years ago the government of Drnovska and Ropa supervised the Kurnik! This is the truth, and such a lie has been revealed by Karb, who apparently has contacts with the divine work of the Owl. Excuse me. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u124	Failure to respect European values is the fundamental development problem of Slovenia, which makes us all worse off than we could be. If anything should be a message from the media today, it should be. But that didn't happen. I've looked through the website, in the reports. That wasn't there. Apparently, there's still a taboo of darkness. If a taboo is a topic, it is precisely that disrespect for European values is the fundamental development problem of Slovenia, which makes us all worse living, and is a reflection of the fact that transition failed in Slovenia. The best evidence for this is that apparently there is a taboo of darkness. Whether it is a European norm, or whether it is a European value – where! The European value is precisely that it should not be taboo. What should not people today hear, see, except those who had enough time and opportunity to monitor the direct transmission? The fact that they were the only ones who spoke of separation, collaboration and all others, MPs and Members of the Transition Left, and that all the eyewitnesses who addressed them apparently wanted to talk about it, were flying only and exclusively at them. We have been talking about specific figures, about what today burdens Slovenia and will burden it in the coming years. The fact that the dirty game you took power with a few months ago cost a terrible price. That because of it the amount of interest that we are paying now against the one that was raised by about 2.5% at the time of the government of Janez Janša, which means that we will pay three-quarters of a billion more for your political game – thrown out the window. If we add to this the fact that for years you arrogantly rejected everything we offered, including the constitutional law to settle the problem deleted, and you were then warned that in the end everything would only be born to pay compensation to everyone and everything, and you cried out that we were lying, you are right there today. Today, Minister Virant warns that it could be a billion dollars in euros, but I have not heard that he would be measured as a liar. But if you count and add those 200 000 euros to it when you cut children's rights, mother, when you cut money for education, for health care, while at the same time spending five times more money, 200 000 euros for the office of the former president of the country, which is contrary to European values, and if you want, a purely unconscious piece of crap, then we'll get about 2 billion euros out there. That's a thousand Euros you take out of everybody's pocket and you yell, "Let's keep looking!" so that people don't see how deep you've gone in their pockets and pulled thousands of euros out of their wallets to each father, a thousand euros each mother, a thousand euros each child. That's what we were talking about. About the fact that disrespect for European values is the biggest development problem in Slovenia at this time and that it makes us all worse off than we could be. To make the situation even worse, we note that many institutions, which have been very loud in the past period, remain silent today. Tax withdrawal - no unions anywhere. A five-fold increase in real estate tax is forecast, which could mean a new decommissioning. All of this happens when people talk about socialism and the richest people in the Cologne when they sing the International are mocking the poor. That's why [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Plevčak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. First of all, I have to say I'm not interested in political games. The number of decisions or acts that we have not adopted and are mentioned here, it seems to me that it is not credible and that the misleading of those who are looking at us now, including taxes or cadastral revenues, since all these things are not accepted in the debate. I am more interested in the values of us in Slovenia and the honesty of us who are discussing. I hope to say that Slovenia is a democratic and legal country. The awakening of past history, what is happening here today, is not of interest to the considerable number of Slovenians and Slovenes and young people. Young people want a job today, make a family. This is what we should be discussing today. Also on how a pensioner should spend a month of 300 to 600 euros in pension, on how to survive the unemployed, on how to survive those who have been unemployed for 40 years and until retirement, on how to survive the disabled. These are the things that should be discussed. History is what can't be turned back. They will listen to us about what we are talking about today in perhaps 20, 30 years, and realize that our work and discussions today are fruitless and, as someone said, confused. If we ask ourselves how productive we were in today’s session, we can say that this is a pure zero, that it is a waste of time. The economists would say that's uneconomic, because we haven't created anything new. We have not created new values, but we have fueled the passions of those who are left or right or centered. It's true, like an old saying: when you step on a cat's tail, it sounds. It's an old proverb, and it's still a good one. I would end with the thought I have read in Youth, and it was written by Jože Vogrinc: "Symbols are not totalitarian, totalitarian are those who, on behalf of their truth, deny others the right to their truth." Let's start work for our country, for our youth, for our better tomorrow, because we've wasted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-07-05-SDZ6-Izredna-40.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Meh is not in the Chamber, so we are concluding a general discussion on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and at the same time the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Goodbye.
