ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 20, paragraph 3, Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Melita Župevc, Maja Dimitrovski, Janja Klasinc, Romana Tomc, Roberto Battelli, Matjaž Han, Mirko Brulc, Ivan Hršak, Dr. Gregor Virant and Roman Jakič until 11 a.m. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday 26 February 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda and I propose to the assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set by reference to it. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 29th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed act on working proportions within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. He's already on his way to the pay phone. Mr Andrej Vizjak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who conducts ongoing business.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, good morning, welcome! The reason for labour market reform is at least double. The first is that the Slovenian labour market is compared to other countries. This is due to a number of administrative obstacles as well as a number of statutory obligations and protections. As a result, there is a relatively high fear of employers being employed indefinitely, especially when the market situation is turbulent, when they do not have clear long-term orders or when their business is very variable from month to month and year to year. Because of this rigidity of the labour market, inflexibility, we also have a low competitiveness and consequently fewer employees than we would have in a more flexible labour market. The flexible labour market is also proportional to the unemployment rate. Greater than the rigidity of the labour market, unemployment is greater. On the other hand, we also have a lot of temporary employment on the Slovenian labour market, especially among young people. In 2011, as much as 83.7% of all new contracts were concluded for a certain period of time. Contracts for a certain period are a rule and not an exception. In Slovenia, we have the highest level of employment for a certain period of time among young people compared to other EU countries. Such temporary employment, especially for young people, is a social problem. This is not only a problem for young people, it is a problem for the whole society, because they have a lower potential for earning, they have a greater uncertainty about planning the future and the family, and it is not good, it is a problem for society as a whole. The objectives of the reform of the labour market were therefore twofold. The first is to reduce segmentation in the labour market, more employment for indefinite periods and less temporary forms of employment. Another important objective is to improve flexibility, reduce labour market rigidity and thus encourage employers to increase employment. In this reform, we have these two key objectives and five sets of measures. We have measures to simplify procedures concerning the conclusion and cancellation of employment contracts and the reduction of administrative barriers. There are 12 measures that follow this objective. This objective aims to make labour legislation more flexible and thus encourage employers to work. Then we have 17 measures to increase labour market flexibility and internal flexibility so that employers can better adapt to the challenges in the business environment so as to make it easier to adapt the number of employees to their business and manufacturing processes. We also have 9 measures to reduce the cost of employment for an indefinite period of time. We want to make the contract for an indefinite period more attractive to the employer. Then we have 7 measures to discourage the use of fixed-term contracts. We want employers to work more for an indefinite period of time, so we stimulate them and at the same time make a fixed-term contract as attractive as an indefinite-term contract, because you know that today the fixed-term contract is more attractive to employers. Not only because they have fewer obligations after the end, but also because they are less costing the employer. Then we have 8 measures to increase the legal security of employees in order to prevent abuse. In the first reading and also in the course of the debate, you were able to examine all these measures on the Committee. The objective and final outcome of these measures will be as follows. The segmentation in the labour market will surely decrease, as many measures will encourage employers to work indefinitely. Slovenia, however, will move from the very top of the seven countries, where we are today, to the gold environment, to the level of the EU average or to the level that Austria has today, according to the employment security index for an indefinite period of time. These are the key effects and objectives. We wish, honourable Members, to support amendments that are in line with the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u3	Thank you, too, for your introduction. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u4	Good morning! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 11th session. 2. In 2013, the Government submitted the draft Labour Relations Act to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The National Assembly is on the proposal for a law at the 20th extraordinary session of 15. 11. 2012 held a general debate and concluded that the proposal for a labour relationship law was appropriate for further consideration. Representatives of the professional and interested public, trade unions, the Office of the Government for Equal Opportunities, the Association of Disabled Persons, the Chamber of Commerce and others attended the meeting. Amendments to the bill have been tabled by the majority of the parliamentary groups. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as an opinion and proposals for amendments to the Committee of Interest. In the initial supplementary explanation of the applicant, the Minister of Mag. Andrej Vizjak pointed out that the difficult negotiations with the social partners had already taken place led to a much higher degree of harmonisation of the text of the law. He also expressed the desire for the Committee to confirm what had been agreed between the social partners, since these are harmonised proposals that save the labour market. Solutions are intended to encourage employers to work on a permanent basis, thus contributing to the competitiveness of the economy. In the draft law, he highlighted in particular the aim of reducing segmentation in the labour market, also pointing out the problem of young people, as young people are mostly employed for a certain period of time, and thus without all the benefits that older workers have for an indefinite period of time. Due to the importance of the bill's proposal, members were invited and could not avoid, despite the general debate, a brief presentation of general views on the proposed law. The panellists also pointed out that the position of the employer is difficult, as it must provide enough money for the salaries of its employees. The law should allow for an easier procedure of forgiveness if the employer finds himself in a situation where he does not have orders and thus works for workers, does not restrict work or allows people to work. Europe has a problem with fresh capital since the latter went to friendly markets years ago. Her vision is small and macro-enterprises. They also pointed out a reduction in public sector wage money, which would have consequences. They also pointed out that the dismissal procedure must be easy for the employer, but at the same time we must ensure the safety of workers. The Committee adopted all amendments to the SDS, SLS and NSI parliamentary groups that were prepared on the basis of the content reached by the social partners and the government as a negotiator in the negotiations. This followed the government's appeal and the agreement of the negotiators. For the other amendments tabled, the members relied on the participants' explanations of the negotiations or they discussed and/or supported the concrete proposed content. In most cases, these clarifications were precisely the reason for the withdrawal of the amendments, as the applicants did not want to spoil the efforts made and the work done by the negotiators and thus jeopardise the adoption of the law. The Committee adopted 72 amendments to the SDS, SLS and NSI parliamentary groups and 2 amendments to the SD Group. However, the amendments of the members of the positive Slovenia Group, the National Gazette, DeSUS and some of the amendments of the SD were not adopted. As a result of the adoption of certain amendments, some amendments have become irrelevant and others, as I said before, have been withdrawn due to non-compliance with the social partners. The list of amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be prepared with the text of the amended law, which shall include the amendments adopted. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u5	Thank you for presenting the committee report. Since the assembly held a general debate at its 20th extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9. First of all, I'm asking if anyone would like to discuss and I'm asking you to sign up for the debate. I find that there are no applications, except for Mr Vizjak, who has applied for the debate. Let me say that these are amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and the New Slovenia Group. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members! Allow me first of all to thank you for not making any amendments to the draft law and for sticking to the agreement reached with the President of the country that only amendments that are consistent with the social partners will be applied to this law and also to his twin, which follows the Labour Market Regulation Act. These amendments represent some kind of package of various compromises. Each of us is only part of this compromise, and any partial interference with these solutions could jeopardize the entire compromise as such, although there is still some way that any other interference with the agreed solutions might seem attractive. Therefore, under this Article, Article 9, and the amendment thereto, allow me to request that all the amendments annexed be taken as a whole, a compromise which was reached before yesterday with torment and which is not entirely 100 per cent unanimous. Nevertheless, most social partners have confirmed that this is a minimum compromise, a compromise that allows these solutions to be implemented, which I think is an important step forward for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u7	Thank you. I note that there are no other speakers for the debate on Article 9, so I am concluding the debate on Article 9 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 95 and the amendment to this Article. The applicants are also mentioned to the parliamentary group. I find that there is a desire for a debate and I invite you to apply for a debate. I'm guessing Dr. Andrej Crnak Meglič has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A nice greeting to the Minister with a colleague as well as colleagues and colleagues! I applied for a debate on Article 95, although I would like to make a general reference to this law, the position I have, and to some extent the Group of Members. The 95th Article refers to minimum notices and is somehow the product of a compromise between the social partners. Newly, compared to what we have accepted on the Committee, he has set up a longer notice for workers who have been employed for more than 25 years. It's not necessary for me to say that I support this amendment. The second thing I would like to stress is the satisfaction that the law is what it is and would be called not only a law of the minimum but a maximum common denominator and is the product of hard negotiations. I must admit that I am pleased that the negotiators have shown a great deal of tolerance, openness and also willingness to negotiate, something that may have been a little less in the time of our government. In a compromise way, solutions have been found that have satisfied all partners to some extent, and on the other hand no one is fully satisfied. We can say that the law is in some way a win-win game for both sides, because, as Mr Minister has pointed out, it is a law that increases the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, as the EPL index also shows. Under this law, Slovenia will be placed in the middle of the European scale or OECD countries and will move closer to the conditions of competitiveness in Austria and, on the other hand, will reduce the segmentation in the labour market and to some extent increase the safety of workers. That is why I can say that measures, which to some extent are also innovative, are such that we can express our support for them, and the Social Democrats will do so, as we have already promised on the Committee. In particular, I should like to express my satisfaction because we have become open to the problem that we have put under the carpet until recently. This is a question of distasteful workers or workers employed in so-called precarious forms of employment and whose number is increasing. In line with the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation, the Government has followed the amendment of the Social Democrats to regulate limited labour protection for so-called economically dependent workers. What tells us more is the situation of those espies that are linked to one employer in more than 80% of their activity or income. We were aware that we were artificially putting the problem in the Labour Relations Act. In other countries, this is regulated either by a civil code or by a special law. What was particularly important for us is that we take the first step to recognize that these workers have been deprived of their labour rights and that we should look at this phenomenon in the future in a way that demands ever new forms of employment. These should not be prevented, but should be equivalent to the labour security of working people or people who are employed in different forms of work. I therefore welcome that you have listened to us take a step forward, and if we upgrade this by adopting a special law that will continue this story, we will be even more pleased with the Social Democrats. Let me say, when I express my support for this law, that we Members felt a little trapped. With the promise we have made to you that we will not interfere with what has been coordinated with such an effort among the partners, we have in some way again been more of an observer and confirmer of what has been done. If we have previously experienced this form by coalition members, we have now experienced it by the social partners. It is a wish that we are partners in these matters as much as possible, even if we are co-forming the negotiating process, but at least it is a desire to prevent anything, but to help do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u9	Thank you, too, Andrea, for the debate. I'm guessing there are no other applicants at this stage. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 95 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 103 and the amendment which has been tabled under this Article. The applicants are also sent to the SDS and NSI. Anybody want to talk? I understand it's an interest and I invite you to report it. I'll give you the word "magic" first. Barbara Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Dear President, the Honourable Minister with his co-worker! Allow me to begin in general and briefly say a few words about the process of adopting the so-called labour market reform – I will not speak separately about both laws. If you'll excuse me, I'm only going to come by once in a while. I must say that I am pleased that we have shown a great deal of understanding, constructiveness and responsibility together, both to the government and to the union side and also to the opposition, and we have joined in one of the most important reforms. That's absolutely true and here you go, Minister, as a negotiator of praise. I must say that thanks also because you have included a number of proposals that have come from the opposition in one way or another in the complementary proposal of the laws themselves, which means that we, in some way, have been able to participate in the finalization of both proposals of the law. I must say that I am so much more pleased because I received an amendment on the table, which was also tabled on the working body of the Positive Slovenia, and which speaks of greater security for the unemployed during the first three months. This is what we have always advocated, that if, on the one hand, changes in labour market reform are to be made to a greater degree of flexibility, which means that the worker is more easily dismissed, in short periods, adequate social security for the unemployed must also be ensured on the other hand. While the proposal, which touches on the Labour Market Regulation Act, we absolutely support the second law, which we will deal with later, because it summarizes the content of our amendment proposal. If I return to the very content of Article 103 and the proposed amendment. On this subject, there was almost a broad debate on the working body, I can say, which was the subject of dilemmas. It was basically an amendment of Positive Slovenia, which we summarized on the proposal of the Youth Council. However, I would ask you once again to explain why you later decided with the unions to correct and return the solution that was adopted on the working body to the basic proposal of this article. Young people have made it very clear that they are concerned or that they would like to be excluded from the criteria for defining redundant workers as an option. They say it's kind of discriminatory to them. In this part, I refer to you as to why this decision has been taken and what this deletion or reintroduction of working time in the content of Article 103 means, including in terms of the protection of young workers in the labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u11	Thanks for the debate. Next up is Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u12	Thank you very much. This was the amendment of Positive Slovenia and SD. This is one of the amendments concerning my previous debate. In this area, we Members have been a little more involved in the debate and have listened to young people who, despite the fact that the criteria of working age are only mentioned in cases, feel this as an obstacle to the waiver or termination of the contract. That is why I am also interested in why the social partners have so strongly opposed this amendment, which I think is well-intentioned. As I've already announced on the committee, it's some sort of unvoluntary attitude towards some population that feels this problem as a hindrance. If it feels like an obstacle, it's not made up, but it's a fact. If this is not such a great effort to accept or reject such an amendment, despite your harmonisation, I would ask you, Mr Minister, to try to find some compromise here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u13	Thank you. The word is wanted by the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It is true that after the adoption of this amendment, especially the Union of Free Trade Unions, the trade unions have expressed a very high degree of uncertainty and also disappointment because this amendment was adopted. Why? Because it was not subject to coordination and was contrary to what the unions were committed to implementing this law. The criteria for determining redundant workers for collective leave where the number of workers in the employer is higher are set out in this Article. These are not criteria which must be as a criterion, but are listed to be taken into account when determining redundant workers, and among them are working hours. The working time was among these criteria because it follows some logic that it is probably easier to find a younger worker to re-employment than an older one when it comes to collective leave. This means that it is probably easier to find employment for a younger worker in the labour market than for an older worker, and therefore this insistence, although it is only in case these criteria are given, it is understandable that both trade unions and employers have raised their eyebrows in a way that is contrary to the position of the social partners and have said that this is a precedent that will mean such and different voting in all the other amendments. I am pleased that this is the only amendment that has been voted out and that it has not passed the will of the social partners and that we are returning to the form that this article was originally written. Once again, the content and the employer's ability to determine the criteria for collective leave is wider. He doesn't have to consider working hours if he doesn't want to. This working time is referred to only as something that is suggested to it as an option, as an example to indicate it. Moreover, in the amendment to this article, which has already been adopted, we have also set out the possibility for employers and trade unions at the sectoral level to set additional criteria or to define and specify what is, for example, more typical of a particular industry and to be considered as a criterion for such collective exemptions. Here, too, we have gone slightly against the social partners with some greater flexibility, a greater choice and a greater set of possible criteria. As before, I ask you to respect this will. I hope this is not something that would dramatically mark this law in one direction or another. I am talking about the principle that the agreement between all three social partners, employers, trade unions and the Government is that this criterion is returned to this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u15	Thank you, Minister, for further clarification. The next debate is mag. Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I myself wanted to address Article 103 of the bill on behalf of young people. I am pleased with the compromise, I am pleased to agree on an agreement within the framework of the so-called labour market reform. Although I do not know whether this is what the Slovenian economy needs and I am also skeptical of some of the solutions in this law. As far as article 103 is concerned, I would point out that this is an important message for young people. A society that doesn't respect young people has no future. When you were talking, Mr. Secretary, about who better to find a job, I think young people have this problem. With similar solutions, we somehow push them to seek employment abroad. I call on all members of the younger generation from all the parliamentary groups that the 103rd Article provides an opportunity for us to reject this amendment and also give a message at a symbolic level that the Slovenian Parliament can listen to young people. I think that these criteria are regarding the determination of redundant workers, this condition of working time – so that we can find a compromise so that we do not put this back in this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u17	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. I only come forward for messages to young people brought by this legislation, not only this one, but also the pension law that has been passed. We were well aware of the need to listen to the unenviable situation of young people in the labour market. You know, in the labour market, they're not a problem for young employees. The problem is young job seekers who are not available. In this article and the amendment to this article, we are talking about surplus workers when these surpluses are to a greater extent with the employer when it is necessary to forgive someone. When we ask ourselves who to forgive, whether older or younger, or just consider that the younger one is earlier than the older one. Especially for a simple reason, since it is probably harder for an older worker to find a new job than for a younger one, although the younger one does not necessarily have to be young. He could be 40 years old, 45 years old. When we talk about whether to forgive someone at the age of 45 or someone at the age of 55, you are likely to be forced to do so — so we are not talking about young people. We are talking about taking into account the criteria of working age for collective leave. Allow me to draw attention to the entire set of solutions to this legislation that are for the benefit of young people. Not only this legislation, but also the measures it is monitoring. Firstly, the aim of this reform was to remove the segmentation. I warned earlier that we are in Slovenia at the very top when we are talking about temporary employment among young people. We are first among the 27 European countries. With a number of measures – a few of them – which would encourage unspecified employment and prevent or destimulate employment for a certain period of time, we want to benefit young people, because among those who work for a certain period of time are mainly young people, first-time job seekers. I said that 84% of those employed in 2011 are fixed-term employees, and these are first-time job seekers. Therefore, it is extremely important, significantly more important than this amendment, that we achieve more time-bound jobs for young people in order to make it easier for young people to get credits so that they can plan their family and career path more easily. This is the first extremely important measure to protect the interests of young people and thus society as a whole. A very important system measure promoting youth employment has been introduced in the pension reform, as when the employer employs him, the State pays 50% by the first year for pension and disability insurance. The employer pays only 50% of the contributions to the young first employee. We have also introduced the same measure for mothers seeking first employment, and the second year is this share, this relief of 30%. The second year is only 30%, which means that it is a systemic measure that encourages employers to employ young people. It is much more encouraging than it is to question this amendment. The third important measure we adopted last year, which has produced good results, is the First Challenge, a specific action of active employment policy for young people, which has brought more than 3,000 young people in the second half of last year and this year. Approximately €20 million of European and state resources have been spent on this. What are we looking forward to? The European Union’s Special Fund will be dedicated to the employment of young people in countries with an average unemployment rate. I think that at least the Eastern cohesion region of Slovenia had a youth unemployment rate of more than 25% in 2012, as this is a criterion for eligibility to draw on these funds. These resources will be made available, a few billion euros. A country that is prepared to do so will be able to achieve greater impact in the employment of young people. Since we have a positive experience in Slovenia in drawing on these measures active policies for young people, I believe that we will be very successful here too. I have listed four concrete measures that are in this reform, which are in the process of adopting and implementing pension reforms and which are also accompanied by active policy measures and which are significantly more important for young people than this indent among the criteria of redundant workers. Far from realizing the importance of young people and their problems when entering the labour market when looking for a first job. I believe that the biggest problem, and also the biggest supply that awaits us in the employment of young people, is some normal restriction on student work. The student’s work is one that, unfortunately, is a whole bunch of young alternatives to first employment and a chain of education so that they have status and this status enables them to work and at the same time prevents them from regular employment. Employers also take advantage of this because they have a relatively interesting job opportunities for young workers. I am a great advocate of student work, but for those who study and fulfil their student obligations and work means some money, some opportunity to make it easier or even make it possible for them to study. However, I am not in favour of someone engaging through a student’s work after finishing a study because it is possible and because the employer is able to do so, even though the employer could do the same. That is why we will, and we will also promise the social partners, and I hope that the future government will continue to do so, otherwise we will come up with such solutions ourselves, so that we can finally put the student work to some appropriate level. I think it should probably be limited to years, to years. I think it would be useful to tie him to the regular fulfilment of his study obligations and probably to some extent. It is also this cancer that leaves young people in temporary employment instead of promoting youth employment. On the one hand, we will have to limit some things and on the other hand we will have to reward some regular jobs financially. A stick or a carrot, or whatever else you want, can also solve this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u19	Thank you, Minister. All of you who have been registered under Article 103 have been given the floor. I'm guessing there's still an interest, so I'm opening up the possibility of a report. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u20	Thank you. Nice welcome to you all, Minister with the team, distinguished president, colleagues, colleagues! Maybe it's right for me to come to this particular article. Perhaps I would start with the words of one of the predecessors, Mrs Crnak Meglič, who said that she felt that we were somewhat neglected when Members adopted today's legislation. I also have a feeling that we wanted to propose individual comments and proposals, which unfortunately were not in line with social dialogue, or that some proposals were opposed by trade unions or employers. Nevertheless, all the amendments tabled by the coalition, both at the meeting of the parent working committee and today, are the fruit of months of coordination between the social partners, so as to give the Minister a hat down from this point of view. I believe it's been hard. One of the previous governments tried to comply with the unions, but unfortunately it failed. I believe that the adoption of today's legislation will make work much easier for the new mandate-holders and the new government, if appointed. This amendment, as I said before, is the product of coordination between the social partners. This amendment came from young people, specifically from the Youth Council of Slovenia, who themselves, when they came to our parliamentary group, confirmed the fact that there are quite some good solutions for young people in this law. They were also trying to present this amendment, which was then summarised by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats. As one of the members of the younger generation, I absolutely agree with their proposal, but unfortunately this amendment is not in line with other social partners, unions and employers. Here it may be possible to think in the future so that we may be younger, whether it is the Student Organisation or the Youth Council of Slovenia or any other organisation representing young people, more involved in various social dialogues on solutions that are particularly affected by those who are likely to live longer or who will also be advocates of this labour law for a longer period of time, especially as the working time is increasing. When we met with this amendment at a working-body meeting, and when it was coordinated to the surprise of the social partners, I have to say that I had a strange feeling when suddenly there was a noise between union groups. There have also been some rather incriminating words directed primarily at those of us who come from government parties. Immediately the word of the referendum began to be mentioned if we support another amendment that would not be in line with the social partners, so I must say that I was not most impressed with the threats of trade unions, because they immediately shouted how this was not harmonised. On the other hand, I agree with the Minister's view that working time is only one of the criteria that is important for identifying workers who will be subject to collective dismissal after the termination of a contract of employment, so this is not the necessary condition for employers to stick to, but it is right that it is. I myself will respect social dialogue, although I would like to vote in favour of this amendment as a representative of the younger generation. Perhaps, however, the thought given by one of the predecessors, Katarina – if everyone else agrees and unanimously rejects this amendment and allow all younger Members under 40 years of age to recruit us more to support this amendment as a sign of solidarity among the younger generations in Slovenia, provided that all the others strongly advocate social dialogue and socially coordinated issues. Just to think. I'll make my own decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u21	Thank you, too. I give the word "magic." Barbara Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much. This proposal is not exactly in terms of effective solidarity. I am more supportive of effective solidarity, solidarity, of which we all have something. Unfortunately, if the amendment is unvoted, the young will have nothing. I believe that the change we have introduced on the working body, which the Minister or the government coalition is now correcting in an old way, will not bring any change in substance, as far as I have understood the Minister in the opening speech. Article 103 is essentially not binding in the list of these criteria to be taken into account, but is like some suggestion which are those criteria that are to be complied with. As far as I understand the Article, it also allows open opportunities for certain criteria to be subsequently taken into account as criteria for determining redundant workers. As I understand it has been agreed with the unions that the law should also follow a principle that the Labour Relations Act should still have or should follow. In the Positive Slovenia Group, we will not insist on the original proposal that we tabled on the working body, which means that we absolutely respect the agreement that we made with you, Minister. We will also continue to support the amendment you have drafted, which is consistent with the social partners. Once again, as I understand the law or this amendment, with one word of difference, it will virtually have no impact on this implementation level, but it is, as I understand, a principle that the ZDR is still essentially following, and therefore, as I say, I support your amendment. Allow me because you yourself have talked about student work and the need to limit student work. The need for a restriction will also open up in practice in volunteer work. There are also anomalies, violations are taking place, precisely because young people do not have the opportunity to enter the labour market and because volunteering can, and in practice this is happening, even in the state administration, make quite a lot of use of it as a cheap labour force for young people to gain experience and to get to first employment. So further, even after this law has been passed, there will be a need for further amendment or for increased control.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u23	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u24	Respected from three parliamentary parties – one has somehow withdrawn from this consideration; this amendment would not be supported – I would warn you that this was not just a social dialogue. We have not only agreed on these amendments with the social partners, but also at the level of parliamentary party presidents. On 24 February this year, the presidents of the parliamentary parties and the presidents met with the President of the country, or whatever, among them Mrs Alenka Bratušek, current mandate-holder. There an agreement was reached that only amendments should be tabled and, as a result, amendments that are consistent with the social partners are likely to be supported. Parliamentary policy has also given weight, meaning and commitment to the social partners. This communication was extremely important for the negotiations. Employers and trade unions knew that solutions would be adopted only for those we agreed on and no other solutions. This is extremely valuable for the negotiating process, and this has been agreed by all the Presidents of the parliamentary parties, all of whom, I ask you not only to show respect for social dialogue but also to respect this agreement, support those amendments that are in line with the social partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u25	Thank you, Minister. Anybody else want to talk about Article 103? I invite you to report for discussion. I give the word "magic." Jani Jenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. It is a very nice greeting to all, especially to Mr Visiak, who I commend for the preparation of laws, both on working relations and on the regulation of the labour market. I am very glad that this working time has remained in law at Article 103. This is about older workers, about protection, although it is only a recommendation and not an obligation for employers to take this into account. The problem of young people in employment is really terrible. I have two sons who are hard to find a job. Both young, working experiences have also been gained through student work. That's what they write in the application. They show their work experience only by doing so, but it is not good because they do not have social security over it. I know employers who have been hiring the same student for several years on the same job. Here, in laws, this solution is somehow already stated that the same person should not be employed in the same job or for the same job for a certain period of time if it is necessary. That's why I'm going to support both marriages. We all support the proposed laws in DeSUS because this is the achievement of social partners and representatives of parliamentary parties. At the same time, I would like to express my view that there is a considerable amount of remuneration for employers here. It seems to me that they have been working very hard to achieve their goals. After reporting some of the media, I noticed that only a few of the 30 points they asked for were missing. So it will be possible to do a lot more in this area in the coming years to protect workers in some way, a little bit more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u27	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Katarina Hotchevar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u28	Hello again! It is only possible to add this, Madam Minister, that Members and Members are bound exclusively by the Constitution and that one agreement at the parliamentary party summit cannot be a criterion or a reference to how I will vote. More than that, you may have given a message that is more important – that in Slovenia we are hostages of trade unions. That's what's wrong. I am also afraid that those who are representatives of unions and also representatives of employers do not always work and always benefit those who represent them. So I'll make the decision as dictated by the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u29	Thank you, too. There is still an interest in the debate, so I would like to invite you again to report to the debate. Dr. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr Minister, we will not ruin your life because I think this is a symbolic point and I agree that other matters are more important to help young people. However, I must say, as my colleague said, I am also the mother of two children who are victims of job chains and cannot get enough work time. Then that's why they can't get a job, you know. This amendment reflects the solidarity of older workers with younger workers, so this is symbolic. But well, we're not going to lock up at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u31	Thank you, too. Is there anyone else who might be interested in discussing Article 103? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 113a and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 113a. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 137 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. At the same time, I would like to point out that these are amendments tabled by the SDS and New Slovenia parliamentary groups. I conclude my consideration of Article 137. I am opening the debate on Article 148 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 171 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 216 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 219 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 223 and the amendment to this Article. I take it that interest is in the debate, so I invite you to report. Dr. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Let me express my satisfaction that this article is open and that it will be possible to deal with these conditions – this is a gradual increase in the age of workers prior to cancellation, for older workers. The fact is that the conditions in view of the current situation are getting a lot worse, even though there is a degree of sequencing involved, I think there is still a lot more to be done here. Why am I warning you this? I warn in particular about the situation of higher education workers who later enter the labour market. That's one. Second, even under pension law, since we may have cut some things too sharply, we now see the need to correct them. I would therefore advise that another round of negotiations be made, another consideration of how we will write these terms down. I express my support for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to talk about Article 223? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 224a and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 225 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the consideration of Article 227 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I note that no, so I am also concluding the debate on Article 227. We have thus exhausted the discussions on the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and the New Slovenia Group. No other amendments have been tabled. I would like to inform you that we will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Act on the regulation of the market for work within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the Minister to further explain the proposal. Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who conducts ongoing business, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u34	Thank you so much for that. It's true, there's a novel in front of you, not a new law regulating this work, a novel. Unfortunately, given that we have decided to have only a novel, we have seen that some articles are closed because social dialogue has also led to the need for different or better regulation. Nevertheless, this amendment regulates something, I believe, positive innovations that will relax the labour market, remove some bureaucratic obstacles, while also allowing employers and pensioners to cooperate differently or better. As we know in Slovenia, there are many, European comparatively young pensioners, pensioners who retired relatively early due to the legislation applicable until last year. Many of these pensioners are engaged, continue to work, much less of course, but unfortunately they work too much over formal irregular forms, or let's say they are employed in black. The new Labour Market Regulation Act allows for temporary and occasional work of pensioners. This is time-limited, but this on the one hand means an important additional legal way for pensioners to improve their social security and position and, on the other hand, allows employers to have some form of cooperation with older, experienced, probably their co-workers until they have retired to continue and transfer their knowledge to younger ones in some minimum form. This is an important additional measure, which we initially set out to be more ambitious. We also wanted to extend temporary and occasional work to the unemployed, and we returned only to the temporary and occasional work of the pensioners after coordination with the social partners. I believe that it will be possible for the new Head of the Employment Office to take an important step forward in the employment of the unemployed through agency work. The new Head of the Employment Office plans to set up an Agency to enable some temporary, occasional employment of the unemployed through their engagement and their agency. There is also a provision here that the private sector will no longer have to publish vacancies if it does not want to, as the publication of vacancies has often been linked to certain bureaucratic tasks and contributes to statistics and to clarifying things in the labour market is not very much. Moreover, we have a lot of complaints, especially on the part of the unemployed, why the institution is going somewhere or why it publishes certain things that are already in advance, reserved and that it makes no sense. This will not cause any harm at all, but the institution is available to employers for intervention. Allow me to present to you at the end of the presentation of this novel a very important new measure, which will go in terms of how to maintain employment even though it is not possible to maintain a job. This law, in combination with the Labour Relations Act, also brings this novelty that anyone who is before unemployment, who is at the time of retirement, whose work is permanently unnecessary when he receives a decision and starts to run a notice period, is obliged to apply to the Employment Service within three days. The Employment Service is obliged to work with him at least once a week within the time limit. If this cancellation period is, say, 30 or 60 days, or two months, a huge effort can be made to find another job for this worker, who is in retirement, who is potentially unemployed. The employer is rewarded for this because if he offers him another suitable job with another employer, he does not have to pay his pension. At the same time, the worker is satisfied that he keeps his job, and also the country, because there is no need to pay compensation if there is another job. Your Honor, there are significantly fewer amendments here. These too are in line with the social partners and I ask for support from these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u35	Thank you, Minister, for this introductory presentation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u36	Thank you. Hello again! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at the first meeting of the 11th session. 2. In 2013, the Government submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Representatives of the professional and interested public were also present at the following meeting, in addition to the Minister and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. The Minister has already announced the key innovations brought by the novelties: the suspension of compulsory employment application at the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for employers in the private sector, the possibility of temporary and temporary work for pensioners, the reduction of the rate of cash compensation for the case of unemployment, which in the basic proposal was reduced from 80 % to 70 % of the average wage – this was corrected with the amendment – the change in the right to the remaining work, the unutilized right to cash compensation, which prevents the enforcement of the application and the exploitation of unemployment benefits, except for the unemployed who are just before retirement, the possibility of applying to the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia during the notice period which the active search for new employment is aimed at simplifying the process of obtaining cash compensation. The debate on articles and amendments tabled in Article 2 raised the opposition of the DeSUS Group to the proposed solution that employers in the private sector should no longer be obliged to publish vacancies. The Minister and the majority of those present reiterated the view that the current system distorts the actual picture of job vacancies, as employers often find the person they want to hire without looking through institutions, so in such cases the public publication presents only an administrative burden to the employer while at the same time raising false hopes for job seekers. We know this from practice when those who submit applications are not even informed that they have not been chosen, because this is a great deal. With regard to Article 3, the representative of the NGO centre drew attention to the applicable provision of Article 8 of the Act, which classified non-profit private sector managers as managers in a private company and a limited liability company. A proposal for an amendment to the Committee was submitted which exempts non-profit business persons from the circle of persons who cannot be considered as unemployed in any case. In this regard, the Minister stressed that the definition of a non-profit institution does not yet mean that an operator of such an organisation is not paid for the performance of its work. It is not necessary that such an activity be carried out exclusively on a voluntary basis. He pointed out that he felt that the problem was systemic and that it could not be resolved properly in this law. In the debate on Article 8, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors, which would divide 25 % of the benefits paid for the purpose of temporary or temporary work, into two equivalent works, in line with the principle of intergenerational solidarity. One half would be earmarked for scholarships and the other for active employment policy programmes for older people. The Minister explained that the purpose pursued by the applicants would already be achieved by a proposal from the coalition. In addition, a fund in which half of the funds raised would have been made does not yet exist and should only be set up. With regard to the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia to Article 15, which proposed the possibility of prolonging the integration into the public works of unemployed persons for one year or three years, if the contractor is a public part of a disability organisation at national or local level, the representatives of trade unions expressed their concern about the possibility of such a long extension, as they are, by definition, intended for the activation of unemployed persons, and the excessive extension of the possibility of inclusion in public works could be a development trap for those seeking employment, in particular for persons with disabilities, therefore this amendment has not been accepted. With regard to the provision of Article 21, which provides in the draft law that the circle of insured persons who, in the exercise of the right to financial compensation, take into account the entire insurance period and not only the period reached after the last cash refund, is determined by the fact that, until the conditions for retirement have been fulfilled, he is under 5 years of age and retirement, instead of 55 years of age and over 30 years of insurance, it has been pointed out by the trade union representative that this is a measure which will further affect the weakest category, the elderly are unemployed. The Committee adopted the amendments of the SDS, SLS and NSI, 41 such amendments, but were not adopted by the amendments of the DeSUS, PS and SD groups. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133, the amendments are included in the supplementary draft law which forms an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u37	Thank you for presenting the committee report. I would like to inform you that the assembly held a general debate at its 20th extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a law, so it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group and the New Slovenia Group. First, I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I find that it is an interest and I am opening up an application for a debate. I give the word "magic." Barbara Squire Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u38	Thank you very much. This is the amendment that has hurt me most on the working body, because earlier today I have said that when we want to bring greater security to the labour market in the context of labour market reform, I think that we all know that we must have adequate social security in particular at this time on the other hand. The reduction of social security in the case of unemployment, while workers are easier to forgive in the labour market, when there are no new or sufficient jobs – I think the only sensible and meaningful measure is the adoption of this amendment, with which the Ministry or two coalition parties, SDS and Nova Slovenija, summarize the content of the amendment that we have tabled in Positive Slovenia on the labour market itself. In doing so, I would like to inform you of the extensive analysis carried out on the issue of unemployment during the last economic crisis in the European Union countries, which explicitly states that in times of crisis it is particularly important that labour market policy provides sufficient income support for the unemployed and also offers them opportunities to maintain and improve skills and competences. The appropriate level of social security is, in my opinion, one of the key components or important points to be taken into account in the new labour market reform. We therefore absolutely support the solution that you are coming back to Parliament and Members of the National Assembly today because it means that during this most sensitive period, during the first trimester of unemployment, we maintain the current level or level of monetary compensation, which is 3 times 80%. We absolutely support this solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u39	Thank you, Mag. Barbara Squire Tavsh. I give the floor to Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Let me first express the whole attitude of our parliamentary group towards this law. We are a little less excited about him than we are about the Labour Relations Act, but let me stress that a great step has been taken in terms of bringing our positions closer to those of the coordination process. That is why I very much welcome the amendment to Article 19, which, for the third month of unemployment, reimburses 80 %. Perhaps I would also like to tell the viewers the information presented by the Minister in our coordination on the Committee that only 30% of the unemployed receive unemployment compensation. These unemployed persons are now granted 80 % compensation in the first three months under this Article, from three months to one year 60 % compensation and from here to 25 months 50 % compensation. In view of the salaries in Slovenia, let me say that on average pay after one year someone will receive 500 euros. Those under the average wage are 65% in Slovenia. Someone who receives 80% of the average wage will receive EUR 400 in compensation and someone who receives only EUR 700 350. So much so that we imagine that this is not some kind of support for lazy people who are sitting at home looking for work. In particular, I would like to draw attention to what I have had to hear at the European Employment Conference, where they stressed exactly what colleague Tavš also said that in the crisis we are in today, when the private sector does not create new jobs, social security in the event of unemployment is crucial. Also, that other parallel measures, which are very good and which we welcome – active employment policies must also be given attention – but they do not produce the right results. Therefore, this battle for proper compensation is extremely important for us and we support the amendment. The second thing I'd like to explain is our relationship to the work of pensioners. In a way, we opened it up, if we call it college work for older workers. Even if time is limited, we fear the impact on the labour market and that this form could possibly become a substitute or a way of kicking older unemployed workers out of employment. We therefore particularly welcome the adoption of our Group's amendment, the evaluation of this measure over a period of one year, and on this basis the assessment of whether the measure results as expected or causes any deviations to be eliminated. With these concerns, I express my support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u41	Thank you, too. Anyone else want a word on Article 19 and the amendment to this article? Opening login option. I give the word "magic." Borut Ambrožich.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, everyone! I would like to continue where my forerunner has ended and, if I may, focus mainly on the solution that this law brings to the elderly. It is not negligible that the demographic picture that we are facing now and the projections that show that children born tomorrow may have to wait for a hundred years or more, expresses the urgent need to amend the relevant structural laws that will allow the older generation to experience and experience their age in the field of occupation. I therefore certainly welcome the solutions offered in the law that allow the temporary work of pensioners without any personal fear to prevent this form of employment for young people, for whom this law also offers the appropriate solutions and amendments proposed by the applicants, and also addresses the issue of young people at the time of their first employment, in particular in the area of fixed-term employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u44	I myself support Article 19 and, above all, that the social partners and the Government have agreed. I think that's a good thing. We can talk about the young unemployed, the elderly unemployed, the work of the elderly and the young. These are the most vulnerable groups, and there is also a vulnerable group in between. It's essentially unemployment, it's work, it's job shortages, and therefore, the measures that make life possible when work is not available when employment is not available are important. It would be most important for us to find an agreement between the social partners, on the one hand of the union, on the other, the employers of the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, both sectors, and the Government, and also us in the National Assembly, which are the measures to ensure jobs. Ivan Vogrin often talks about the problem of jobs, new jobs and the preservation of old jobs. If we don't do this, if we don't make this change, then we're going to talk about social transfers all the time, about what we're doing to make people live, whatever that means, and in particular, we're going to try to form a coalition, if I can say so, so that we can open up new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u45	Thank you, too. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 19? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 24 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 49 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. At the same time, I would like to inform you that we have exhausted the treatment of all the amendments tabled. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 29th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u46	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on working relations in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 May. 2. 2013 We decide on the amendment to Article 9. The candidates are the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 95 and to the amendment tabled. The proposers shall be SDS and NSI. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 95 has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 103 and the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 113a and the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 113a has been adopted. We are moving on to 137th Article and the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 148 and the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 171 and to the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 216th Article and the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI Members. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to Article 216 has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 219 and the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 223 and the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 224.a. and to the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to 225th Article and the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI Members. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the last amendment tabled, which is Article 227. The proposers shall be SDS and NSI. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to a proposal for a third hearing at the same meeting. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Here you go, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u47	Dear Members! Thank you so much for so much support for the amendments and the law. I propose that, on the basis of Article 138, the Parliament or the National Assembly adopt a decision to hold a third hearing at the same meeting, which means that this legislative procedure is concluded as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. Please, procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u49	In order to avoid any misunderstandings, 24 hours must pass, regardless, so I would only ask for an explanation if this is true or not, that there will be no misunderstandings later. In principle, I don't mind, but there will be no violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your proposal. The agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly is to hold the third reading of the draft law at the next 29th extraordinary meeting, which will take place on Tuesday 5 March 2013 at 9 a.m. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We are voting on the proposal for a third hearing. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the following 29th extraordinary meeting on Tuesday 5 March 2013 at 9 a.m. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28 May. 2. 2013 We have three amendments to Article 3. Article 19 first – Amendments tabled by SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 19 has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 24 and the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to the vote on Article 49 and the amendment tabled. The proposers shall be SDS and NSI. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 49 has been adopted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The proposal for a third hearing at the same meeting – as at the previous point, I give the representative of the Government as the proposer of the bill if he wants mag. Andrej Vizjak should submit a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138, I propose that you hold a third hearing at the same meeting, so that the reform will be fully adopted at this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-02-28-SDZ6-Izredna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the following 29th extraordinary meeting on Tuesday 5 March 2013 at 9 a.m. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. I also interrupt the 29th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday, 5 March 2013 at 9 a.m. Nice to meet you.
