ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Members, Magi. Borut Ambrožič, Zvone Černač, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Marijan Pojbič and Richard Braniselj. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the ninth item of the agenda, the President of the State Election Commission and the candidates and candidates for Members and Members to the 14th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Wednesday 20 March 2013, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We are moving on to a decision and I ask you to check the operation of the voting apparatus before that. We're moving on to the agenda. We're voting. 71 Members and Members were present, 71 of them voted against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 12th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. First of all, we turn to the appointment of candidates who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, become Members for the remainder of the term of office of Members who have ceased their term of office and to designate candidates who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, will serve as Members instead of Members who serve as Members in the Government. Because he's an MP, mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav and Mr Janez Janša, as a result of the resignation of Members, have terminated the mandate of Members, the State Election Commission has forwarded to the National Assembly a decision on the right to take over the mandates, namely, to become a Magi member due to the termination of the mandate. Mr Jasmina Opec for the remainder of the term of office, and Mr Robert Hrovat for the remainder of the term of office, due to the end of the term of office of Mr Janez Janša. Because they were Mr Roman Jakič, Mrs Tina Komel, mag. Stanko Stepišnik, Dr. Gregor Virant and Mag. Dejan Židan, appointed Minister and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is temporarily unable to perform the functions of Member and Members, and the State Election Commission has therefore forwarded to the National Assembly decisions on which candidates and candidates have the right to replace the Member and Members who have served in the Government. The conclusions of the State Election Commission were addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the National Assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for conclusions. Does the Commission rapporteur want a word? I guess not. Does anyone want to discuss it on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Does anyone want to discuss it on their own? No, no, no. I conclude the debate because there is no interest in the debate. We're moving to the vote. I put to the vote the following proposal for a decision: The delegation of the mandate of Mr Robert Hrovat, born 10, shall be confirmed. 4. 1971, to the resident of Stritarov Street 18, Dob pri Domžalah, and to Mrs Jasmine Opec, born 2. 8. 1985, resident of Lake 22, Rakican. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the vote on the following proposal for a decision: At a time when a Member and Members who have taken office in the Government, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot perform the functions of a Member and a Member, they shall perform this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members of 27. 3. 2013: in place of Mr Roman Jakič, Mrs Aleksandra Osterman, born 18. 3. 1972, resident of Slovenian Territorials 2, Kočevje; instead of Mrs Tina Komel Mr. Aljoša Jerič, born 5. 3. 1973, living in Lokev 122, Lokev; instead of Mag. Stanka Stepišnika Mr. Peter Oder, born 28. 5. 1973, living in Javornik 65, Ravne na Koroškem; instead of Dr. Gregor Viranta, Mr. Marko Pavlisič, born 31. Seven. 1972, residing on Vega Street 1, Trzin and instead of mags. Diana Jew, Mr. Branko Smodish, born 1. 9. 1965, resident of Cven 77 c, Ljutomer. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 75, against no one. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] Members of Parliament, Mr Robert Hrovat, Mrs Jasmine Opec, Mrs Aleksandro Osterman, Mr Aljoša Jerič, Mr Peter Odr, Mr Mark Pavlisic and Mr Branko Smodiš, I invite them to join us and occupy their seats and I wish them to do their work successfully in their seats. Thank you for your attention and I inform you that this concludes this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday, 2 April 2013. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THESE ARE THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received in writing seven questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first two questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. The first question will be asked by Mr Michael Prevc, Slovenian People's Party. Mr. Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Prime Minister of the Government! Whether we want to admit it or not, Slovenia is on the radar of global financial markets, as many media articles and contributions in the world are also witnessing, where concern is expressed that the reform process has stopped again. We well know that Slovenia has received a positive assessment of the financial markets regarding the consolidation of public finances and the process of adopting reforms. This was confirmed at that time also by the price at which we could be indebted. It is true, however, that this story came to light on 8 January this year with a report from the anti-corruption commission and nearly three months have passed in dealing with completely different problems. Slovenia really isn't Cyprus. The scope of the financial sector is much smaller, but this does not mean that the rehabilitation of banks does not remain our most important task. Whether we wish it or not, we will have to pay full attention to managing the budget deficit. However, we still do not know what the target budget deficit of this government is, nor do we know whether the implementation of the 2013 budget adopted last year is even your priority. If you remember, this budget also includes lowering the public sector's wages and continuing to rationalise public spending. We have already commented on your coalition contract that although it is a very popular list of wishes but without concrete solutions. Today we are Members, and of course also the Slovenian public, we deserve more concrete answers as to what the anti-crisis plan of this government is. That's why I'm asking you, Madam President of the Government, today: How will you continue the economic policy of consolidation and at what points do you plan to change? What is the government's objective regarding the expected deficit over the next two years? When we finally find out how you plan to solve the key problem for the country, this is the rehabilitation of the banking system. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you, too. I give my word to the Prime Minister. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time you've heard from this town. Six days have passed, it has only been six days since I took over the business from the previous Prime Minister and I have three questions on the table. It would probably be different in normal times and in a way give me a hundred days of peace to prepare a programme of work for our new government in peace. But as I've said many times in my performances, the world and time are such that we can't just stop them from waiting for us to prepare our work programme in peace. Dear Member, I am kind of surprised by what you wrote in the question of Parliament, and that is that on 8 January it all stopped. Now that I've been watching, I've been monitoring and today I have the opportunity to look at government materials, and the previous government has been very, very active in at least one part of it over the last two months. You know exactly what I'm talking about, and these are the personnel exchanges you've been speeding up until Wednesday before they're handing over business. I hope and I believe that other things haven't stopped either. This is also the Claims Management Company, I think things have been going on as stipulated in the law. This company has become operational, they have been called non-executive and executive directors, so I think fear here is absolutely superfluous. You're asking me about our anti-crisis plan. The anti-crisis plan of our government is very simple. Continue all that was well-started and placed, and do what you put too far aside. When I talk about the continuation of good, of course, I mean the rehabilitation of the banking system, the management of state property in one place and the consolidation of public finances. When I talk about what you put too far aside, I am talking about the start-up of the economy and new jobs. We are absolutely aware that the resolution of the banking system is our first priority, and the Minister of Finance, I think night and day are working on it. But it is fortunate that he knows very, very well the problems of our banking system and I think it is his and our great advantage. As I have already said, we will continue to rehabilitate and stabilise the banking system in accordance with the adopted law, which, if proven to be, will be corrected in accordance with the section's recommendations and what will prove necessary in practice. One thing that I think is necessary to complement is that the Bank of Slovenia, which has an important role to play in this system, gets more weight. Once again, I would like to say that all those who went into this project are aware that the rehabilitation of our banking system is necessary and we will continue to do so. And once again, as I say, I hope things haven't stopped in this place since 8 January. As the data and events that have taken place show, they are absolutely so. And let me point out once again that absolute comparison of Slovenia with Cyprus is not necessary and is not appropriate. Slovenia is not Cyprus, the role in our banks is absolutely safe. And there's no need to panic at this point. As far as the consolidation of public finances is concerned, it is only possible for a short period of time, since the second question of the delegation is also addressed to this topic. We will absolutely continue to consolidate public finances. However, there is something, honourable Member, to write on paper, that we will reduce the cost of work by 10%, and another is to put it to life. And just the other one, it says certain measures to get into life, we've already done it.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thanks for the answer. Mr Prevc will present a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear President! I'm not asking you these questions because I'd like to embarrass you or try to tease you in any way. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are simply extremely concerned because even from your performances and even less from your coalition contract, we do not understand what kind of economic policy your government will lead. See, the required return on state 10-year bonds has practically grown since your government's performance and was 6.17% yesterday. As a financier, you know what that means. Financial markets, i.e. those who lend us money for liquid liquidity, do not believe your words about self-sustaining economic problems. They do not assess the past, assess the future, and I fear that just talking about how saving is not a solution will not convince them otherwise, knowing that we will have to re-indebt themselves in international markets within the next few months. That's why, Madam President of the Government, I ask you again, because today we are really interested: Where do you plan to derogate from the policies now in place? What cuts, if any, will you make on the expenditure side of the budget, where there is, in fact, a lot more reserve on love than on the income side, at least until those first effects of the measures for the start-up of economic activity show up? So: With what moves will you convince the world’s economic sphere that we are serious and that we can really solve our problems ourselves? Thanks again for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you. I give the President of the Government a word to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear Member! I think we must all be aware of the weight of our words. Also, the fact that everything stopped in Slovenia on 8 January can have a very negative impact on what you asked me about. One more time. How do we know that? And once again, we'll continue to rehabilitate the banking system. I hope that the measures you have taken today are no worse if they are carried out by another government. Or have you changed your mind? I don't know. We will absolutely continue to consolidate public finances. However, measures need to be put to life, and the budget without deficit can be made very easily on paper. And I would really appeal to everyone that we realize that our words have a certain weight — especially abroad. And they affect the financial markets. Especially the words of people who had a good insight into or even co-created public finances. And if we are purely honest, Mr Prevc, this government has actually done nothing different than what was set up, and we have been hearing for a week that we will need help. So, the actions you've taken have been mistaken. But I personally believe that we will absolutely not need this assistance, that Slovenia is able to put its things in order and that we will continue all the good that has been started, but we will strengthen what you have given absolutely little attention to in the previous government.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you for complementing the answer. Mr Prevc will present the request to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government to the next meeting. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u10	That's right. Thanks again for saying that. On the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. Especially because the times are so serious that no one can afford it, Madam Prime Minister and Ministers, your failure – not even the opposition – even less the Slovenian public, who would feel it on their own, on their own standard of living. All too many questions about the key Slovenian economic strategy remain open. Our public finances and their situation are certainly the most important topic of the moment, so I am sure it can do no harm if we discuss this further, so such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you. On the proposal of Mr Prevc to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Thursday, 28 March 2013, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to another question for the Prime Minister of the Government, who will be posed by the Magi. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, dear Prime Minister! In a way, I see changes – changes that the President has moved to the left, changes that there is no fence in front of the National Assembly, changes that there are no more hungry children, and also Mr Struklje we do not meet so much on TV. These are specific changes that we are experiencing. Despite all that you have been in power or position for 6 days, perhaps 7 days, on the days when your coalition contract was being prepared, we have been able to find some nonconsistency. I believe that you now have a concrete opportunity to explain these inconsistencies and to tell us what to believe: what is written or what you have said and told. Let me put it this way. You said it was the end of the austerity policy. It is stated that they should also have a minus 5% cut in the public sector's wages. You said you would encourage the economy, and on the other hand you announced an increase in value added tax. Everyone says that this is not an incentive for the economy and that this economy is hampered. Tell us what to believe. And in the end. You said you wanted to balance public finances and, on the other hand, talk about increasing spending, increasing funds for infrastructure projects and more. That's why I'm asking you, Madam President: Is your goal, or is it one of the government’s goals, still balanced by public finances? If you have abandoned this goal, I ask you: Where and how will you get additional funding?
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you for asking me that question. I give my word to the Prime Minister. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you. Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. But next time, you will have to read a little more carefully the documents you discussed. Nowhere does it say and we haven't said that saving is over and it doesn't say anywhere that the wages will go down by 5% so we've cleared this up at the beginning. The fact is, the situation in our public finances is poor. The fact is that consolidation of public finances is necessary. And the third fact that we have warned you all year long, especially me and my colleague Stepišnik, that you will destroy what is left of our country with such a public financial policy as you have been going on for the past year. The spinner of death or the spiral of death was repeatedly said behind the phone on that side. And the macroeconomic indicators unfortunately attach us to this. At the same time, you must admit that we have always said that saving is also necessary. But once again, there's something on the paper to figure out what it means to lower wages by 7, 5, 10, 8%, we can do it all very quickly, and then it's something else to put into life. After all, you had until March 21st to make a deal with the unions. You had absolutely no time, and nothing was done in this area. But we started doing it right away. So the talks, arrangements and coordination, or negotiations, if you want, will begin immediately. In the document you are mentioning, we wrote: "We will consolidate public finances by rationalising and prudent saving and, as extreme measures, also by raising VAT. If it turns out that there is a need to raise some tax, I think that many European countries have done so for a while before us, it will be VAT because it has absolutely the least harmful effect on the economy and everything that is connected with it." Budget planning will take place in cooperation with the public sector, while respecting social dialogue. It seems important to me to stress once again that we are still aware that consolidation of public finances is necessary and also a priority for this government. However, it is necessary to say something, honourable Member, that the situation in public finances left us by Mr Šuštaršič and now the two Members who are with us today are not the best. The derogations in the adopted budget are enormous. There are absolutely overestimated revenues on the revenue side, they will not happen, there are measures on the expenditure side that are not agreed upon. The projected budget deficit in the adopted budget is around €1 billion. The International Monetary Fund, which you like to mention several times and say their estimates are good and correct, estimates that this deficit will be a billion and a half this year. That's 50 percent more than it is in your adopted budget. But no matter what, we will take these steps and measures as we have committed ourselves. This absolutely does not mean the end of savings, but absolutely does not mean spending across all borders, but certain measures need to be negotiated with the people concerned. How we will provide the necessary financial resources for the financing of the budget, I will say as before. We're absolutely not going to be innovative here. You've never heard from my mouth either, because it's impossible to stop in one year's debt. The former Prime Minister has promised this, and we know that this is essentially impossible to do. It is absolutely our commitment to consolidate public finances. Please, however, if you give us a few more days or until the stability programme is ready, we will also show you exactly what our plans are.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thanks for the answer. Once again, the mag will present a request to complete the response. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u16	Madam President, you may not have heard me very well. I said you spoke one thing and the other one was in your contract. And this is where disagreements arise, not with what's written down. But nothing about it. It is clear from the response that you will continue to strive for stable public finances while at the same time promoting economic growth. If you can do that, then you're really gonna get something big. Nevertheless, I still think you haven't answered my second question, which I asked earlier: How and how will you provide additional resources? The possibility is with additional borrowing or additional taxation. You haven't worked this out clearly, so I'd like you to explain a few things. I also want you to explain the nonconsistency where things are open, let's say about a bad bank. Your finance minister said we're expecting too much from her, experts say it's a matter to count on. It is also an uncertain fate of the public sector. On the one hand, they are told to save, on the other hand, your contract says you will give them more weight. The fate of privatisation is uncertain and I could still list you, but I don't want to open too much. But you know very well as a financier that stability and predictability are essential for financial markets. I am aware that stability in the current political situation is virtually beyond or beyond your power. But you can ensure predictability. And you can guarantee predictability by speaking clearly, working and writing, and all these sentences will be one and the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you. I give the floor to the President of the Government to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you. Mr Member, I would be very happy if you would tell me when I said that saving is over. But I've been absolutely all year, and you have to admit that what you're doing is not saving, it's destroying. And the macroeconomic indicators ahead of us unfortunately confirm this. I'd be much happier if it were different today. And savings are not over, absolutely saving in the budget is necessary. Once again, there is no recorded number of 5 % reduction in wages. And giving greater weight to the public sector is not necessarily connected with more money immediately, but it is necessarily linked to more cooperation and dialogue, not to threats to how the public sector is an entrenchmenter of the economy. The public sector also contributes to a number of economic growth, performing important functions without which these countries would not be. And if we are not aware of this, I think the situation in Slovenia is really sad. And this is what we had in mind when we said that we would restore respect to the public sector, which I think it deserves – from doctors, professors, judges and others. Once again, it is absolutely our commitment to consolidate public finances. We will present an accurate plan after years in the stability programme in a short time. So let me not talk about specific numbers today after six days of sitting on Gregorčič. I think I've also answered your question about where we're going to secure the necessary financial resources. I told you, if the assessments show the need to raise taxes, it'll be an added value tax. And we are absolutely aware that debt in Slovenia will also need some time. It is clear, however, that the State budget should be earmarked for investment, for the start of the economy and for so-called current consumption as little as possible. And I'll commit to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you for the complementary answer. With this in mind, we have concluded with a second question, the President of the Government. The third to question the President of the Government is Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Positive Slovenia. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you. Dear President, you have recently taken over the business from your predecessor, who said at the handover itself that he has substantially reduced the budget deficit to EUR 800 million and, more importantly, that the current balance of the budget on yesterday is a billion and ten million plus, which means that Slovenia is settling its obligation without problems. In his view, it is now significantly easier and for a substantial lower price it is possible to obtain additional money, and at the same time he pointed out that if we do not sell any bonds, the situation will be significantly changed and in June Slovenia will be reduced by EUR 800 million and that there will be a need to ensure effective debt in the financial markets in order to be able to repay old debts. That's what Janez Janša said. I am particularly interested in what is now happening in the media and what some continue to repeat and I think it is very important that we hear from your mouth and the only one who can answer these questions right now is, of course, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, so I am interested, very clearly, so that we will all understand that there will be no later fraud and some subtle questions and hints about not understanding what it says and what it does not say. On the basis of the facts at stake, I ask you: What is the real state of public finances? Do you think that Slovenia can date without international aid or a three-wayer who is constantly hinting at it and will not find herself in such a situation as Cyprus? In general, in the last days when this rescue plan for Cyprus was adopted, there were speculations as to whether Slovenia could also be the next in line for such assistance and rescue as could be a piano for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u22	Dear Member, thank you for your question as well. At the outset, however, I must say that I have not yet fully familiarised myself with the situation in public finances. The ministers and I have agreed that within 10 days they will prepare an overview of their financial plans and any problems they may face in their work and are not exposed to handovers. That's how I'll have the exact condition only after this examination. But today I can paint a slightly wider picture of what the previous government has left us. On the previous question, I have said that the estimates of the state budget deficit are somewhat unrealistic and that this is also anchored in the reputational international institutions. The AMF estimates that our budget deficit will amount to a billion and a half this year, not one billion, as was your plan. The other thing that I think is absolutely necessary to mention is the story about the so-called Coco bonds. We have done this several times in this National Assembly, and we have repeatedly warned you that this will affect the country's deficit. And today we're just here. The 420 million was earmarked for two banks, not direct recapitalisation, but the circuit you made. But it is already clear today that this conversion has come to an absolute increase in the public financial deficit, by 1.2% of GDP, is said to have done anything to us, we will, I will say, a little ugly, get a grant of 1.2% of the gross domestic product deficit on your account. And please be aware of that when you share the criticisms of this government. 420 million and 1.2% of GDP. During the first two months of this year, the previous government has produced around €500 million of deficits in the state budget and this is a very large one, according to an estimate for the whole year. In addition, some EUR 20 million of commitments were transferred to this year. This means that invoices that should be paid in accordance with payment deadlines in the previous year, since the apparent budget at the end of the year did not have sufficient resources, were paid in this year. And it also increases the deficit this year. At the end of 2012, public debt rose to 54% of GDP. These are the grades. At the end of 2011, it was 46.9%. So in one year we increased this by 7% points, in a time of government that promised that debt was over. Once again, you're not out of my mouth and you won't hear it, because it's simply not possible to do it in one step. I think it's okay. I'll tell you another comparison. The budget deficit at the end of 2011 amounted to a billion and a half euros. The budget, however, had around €2 billion in tied funds in banks. At the end of February of this year, there was a budget deficit of €500 million, but we had only €1 billion and €200 million in banks. But no matter what, we won't look back. It is necessary to look ahead and ensure that the consolidation of public finances is absolutely ongoing and once again I guarantee that this is the priority of this government. Only a time frame will have to be set up realistically.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thanks for the answer. However, Mr Möderndorfer will make a request to complete the reply and I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear President, I have asked another part of my interest and probably not only in this national assembly, but in all of Slovenia and Slovenia: Are our savings deposits in banks safe, given what happened in Cyprus? I think it's very important because there's so much talk and intimidation about whether we have enough money or not to have a threesome to answer. I'd like to know where your account is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you. I give my word to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thanks again, though I think I've already said it twice. Our banking system is absolutely secure and stable. There is absolutely no need for comparison with Cyprus, because we are not comparable, and bank deposits in our banks are absolutely safe. After all, the country guarantees this. Once again, I would appeal to everyone who talks about it to be aware of the weight of our words. And especially those who had a very accurate view of public finances or even co-created them. Indeed, such statements can have a very negative impact, not as much on us as on the outside. But once again, my assessment is that our banking system is absolutely safe and that comparison with Cyprus is completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you for the complementary answer. I note that we have completed this by asking questions to the President of the Government and thank her for the answers given. However, we are moving on to questions of Members and Members. In the first round, Mr Jožef Horvat, Nova Slovenija, Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Čufer will first ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly! Dear Minister of Finance, Mr Uroš Cuffer, I can honestly admit that I feel a little uncomfortable asking you a question about when you are Minister of Finance only on the eighth day. Therefore, I am grateful that you have accepted my question at all. We are here because of people, and never forget that true authority is the service of humans. I was also encouraged by the question raised by the Member States, but also by the finding that the State by redistributing its property management site in some cases is having a negative impact on the development of some of the peripheral Slovenian regions. Only moving the country's capital investment management site turns out to be bad if the place of management or business decision moves from the periphery to the central Slovenian region or, in particular, from Pomurje to Ljubljana. In this respect, Pomurje has unfortunately had poor experience. Years ago, Pomurje lost its own bank, Pomurska banka, d.d. As a bank expert, you understand very well what that means. At the time of the rehabilitation of Nafte Lendava in 2002, the State and Petrol signed an agreement on the provision of basic conditions for the rehabilitation of Nafte Lendava to provide conditions for the development of new activities in Lendava. Petrol did not make any of the investments under that agreement. 40 workers of Nafte Lendava were also to be hired to carry out storage activities in Lendava. There's a worker working there today. Let's not forget, Nafto Lendava was built by many premium generations, so we're also emotionally attached to it. And we're going to the present. These days, the contract on the sale of Oil Geotherm, which is of exceptional importance for Slovenia in the field of geothermal energy exploitation, is to be signed. I have no problem that there is also the municipality of Lendava in the consortium, which is the buyer. I have a problem because Petrol is supposed to play the dominant role. That is why I want to take the municipality of Lendava and Pomurje to the dam. We just have a bad experience with Petrol. As a member coming from the Lendava constituency, I have repeatedly pointed out this in the National Assembly, namely the decommissioning of the Nafta Lendava system. Mr Minister, this is not a problem for this government or for the former government or for the future government. It's a Slovenian problem. Mr. Minister: Do you think that the method of moving the capital investment management site of the Republic of Slovenia from the periphery to the centre has been corrected? And if you don't: What do you think the state can do to prevent this – even though we both know corporate law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Urosh Cuffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u30	Dear Member, Mr Horvath, thank you very much for your question, which reflects your concern for the region from which you come. My concern is currently focused on the whole of Slovenia, so the answer will be about that. As far as the sale or purchase of privately owned companies and the relocation of their seats are concerned, I would say that these are decisions that are within the competence of the administrations and the supervisory boards of these companies. This is in line with the principle of good corporate practice, which I believe in and which I think it would be wrong for the government to intervene. We also know that, under the Company Act, the government cannot and must not influence decisions made by private companies. As regards the powers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this relates to the sale of state investments. You know that the Law on the Slovenian State Holding recently adopted has been adopted and you know that the final decision is in this interim period and that the final period when the classification is adopted is actually in the hands of the National Assembly and that these matters will be discussed here. On this occasion, I might stress just one more point: that privatisation is and remains one of the priorities and that, in terms of improving corporate governance, this issue will have to be continued as well as in terms of fiscal sustainability. Here we have set ourselves the goal that as much money as we will need to start the economy, we will then, in a second step or in a parallel step, privatise that we are essentially neutralising the impact on public debt, because we want Slovenia to remain a sub-average indebted country in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u31	Mr Horvat will present the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you, Mr. Secretary, for this part of the answer. I'm glad you highlighted privatisation as one priority. We are on the Committee on Finance and the Committee on the Economy together with your current ministerial colleague and then our fellow Members of the Magi. Stan Stephniks talked a lot about this. His statement was very good when he said that the state had to divest itself. Yes, the state must transparently privatize its assets. But, look, when it comes to the Nafte Lendava case, which is in 100% state ownership, the buyer is the Consortium, where Petrol has the dominant role, which is partly state owned, here is not some real privatisation in the right sense, as we have had very successful stories in Slovenia. Look at SIJ, look at Metal Ravne. These are successful privatisation stories, and I could count others. I have one more matter to present. Sava, a share company, is also owned in a part of the country. What happened to Savo Turism the last few days? Prematurely terminated the contract for the implementation of laundry services. Maybe these are marginal matters for the Minister of Finance. For me, coming from Prekmur, they're not. Today or tomorrow there will be 30 workers and workers on the road. And so it becomes Prekmurje not a tourist destination, but some corporation in partial state ownership that works from Prekmurje a tourist dairy cow. And I can't just get over it. You were talking about the Slovenian state holding company. I have a lot of respect and I can see that you're going to take your activities here. Yesterday at the Echoes, Dr. France Arhar, who values you, said that we have been on the scene for too long. Please accelerate implementation of SDH. Do you think if SDH had already been implemented, those anomalies that I counted would not have been? Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, and I wish you a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you. Is it possible to complement the Minister of Finance's answer with another word? He doesn't want to. Thank you. I therefore note that this part of the question is concluded and the next one to raise the question is Mr Just Bevk, the Social Democrats. The question will be raised by Mr Tomaž Gantar to the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! As a rule, I ask the question of the Member States at each regular meeting of the National Assembly. Although the new government has sworn only the previous meeting, I cannot give up the tradition for a long time. Under normal circumstances, the new government usually has 100 days of peace, but in our day - to - day life it counts. As soon as the government is operational, it is so much better for the country and a successful fight against the crisis. That's why I want a successful job for the entire ministerial team. It is very interesting, however, which ministers and/or areas today have been given priority by Members: financial stability, health and culture. Very symbolic. At the end of November 2012, I asked Dr. Tomaž Gantar a written question concerning the results of the second national preventive hospital infection survey in Slovenian hospitals. The first survey was carried out in Slovenia in October 2001 and the second was carried out exactly 10 years later. While the results of the first concern were not yet published, the results of the second, which was carried out in 21 hospitals in October 2011. The prevalence of hospital infections is a very important indicator of the quality of hospital services, perhaps even the most important. According to some data, hospital infections in Europe are expected to cause about 175 000 deaths. When I mentioned in my question in the paper in 2003 that in Slovenia 400 to 600 patients died due to hospital infections, the then minister, Dr Dusan Keber, did not dispute this information. Last December, Mr Minister, you replied that the results of the survey would be published in 2013. Since three months have passed since the answer and we have taken a strong step in 2013, I am interested in the distinguished Minister Dr. Tomaž Gantar: How does the publication of the results of the second national preventive hospital infection study in Slovenian hospitals show or what these results are? Mr. Minister, I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, Mr Bevk! It must be antimicrobial resistance as well as hospital infection management and monitoring of one of the priority tasks of each healthcare system. As stated, the first study was carried out in 2000, the next one being a cross-study, at the end of 2011. That is why we have joined the other hospitals that carry out acute treatment in other European countries and have also monitored these hospital infections in a uniform way, with the same methodology that will allow for the actual comparability of the results also in terms of the size and type of treatment within the hospital. This can also have a significant impact on the results themselves. According to the first data, Slovenia does not deviate from other European countries in this part after the effectiveness of managing hospital infections. Our data were presented to hospitals themselves at the December 2012 internal meeting of the hospital network, while data from other European countries are still pending and will only be available this year. Above all, it is important that this cross-cutting study was prepared in a single methodology, on a given day and in Slovenia, in this way the study was carried out on a few more than 5 thousand 600 patients. Of these, more than 31% of patients were in surgery during the last month. Then, below 10% of those who had an implant inserted into the body in the last year, almost half were those who had peripheral vascular catheter, then those who had a central vascular catheter that had urinary catheters and similar procedures that increased the possibility of hospital infection. The data show, and this is the data that we are classified in this comparable group of European countries, that patients with a hospital infection were 3.8% on this cross-border day, of which 2.7% were also treated with antimicrobials at the time of the cross-sectional study. The most common was pneumonia, urinary tract infections, blood infections, surgical wound infections, particularly vascular catheter-related infections. Most of them were infections where similar procedures and interventions are the most common, this is in intensive therapy units. In 55.6% of these hospital infections, the microbes were isolated and only 4 strain-resistant infections among 24 staphyloccus aureus infections are known as MRSA. It is difficult already to conclude on definitive results, even if I only compare the analysis from 2001 to 2011, given that the methodology for monitoring data was significantly different and that in 2011 we adapted to the methodology of other European countries. Of course, it will show when the survey is fully published, where we are at the moment. As I'm saying, for now, it doesn't show we'd back out. However, it is somehow decided that these studies will be repeated for five years, perhaps even for one year with the same methodology, and only then will we see a real trend in how this important area of health is moving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Bevk alone will make a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and thank you for your answer, Mr Minister. Indeed, the most infamous infection caused by MRSO is probably the most fatal and the cost of treatment is very expensive. Precautionary measures are those that can best prevent these infections if they are largely maintained by healthcare professionals — from doctors to all others involved in hospital treatment. I am sorry that it will not be possible to accurately compare the results of the 2001 survey with that of 10 years ago, because the methodology is slightly different, but it will be interesting to see where we were in comparable countries in the European Union two years ago. In addition, in your reply last December, you explained to me that according to the results published, national epidemiological monitoring of surgical wound infections and the initiation of national epidemiological monitoring of hospital infections in intensive treatment units will also be established. In addition, you have stated to me that the Ministry of Health, within the framework of its financial possibilities, will endeavour to carry out research in homes for elderly citizens. That's why I want to know: How does it illustrate the monitoring of infections and can European resources be counted on as regards the conduct of research in nursing homes and for further research in hospitals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you. In order to complete my answer, I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you. I think that, despite all of this, a number of steps have been taken in this area by the establishment of the Commissions for the Management of Hospital Infections and also directly responsible persons accompanying hospital infections. Of course, hospital infections have also been included in the establishment of quality indicators, particularly in the surgical field of wound infection following surgery. It is difficult for me to answer about the possibility of additional resources for research, particularly directly outside the healthcare system in the homes for older citizens. Systematic efforts are being made to lead data primarily in those patients who have been moved from home or who have been sent to treatment for acute hospital treatment. In the context of the possibility and the provision of resources, this would also be one of the important indicators, given that, in fact, there was much done in hospitals in public institutions to prevent MRSE, while perhaps a little less or we could mainly guess how much was actually done in the area of home for older citizens. And we've got some work to do here, no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you. In this way, I note that we can close this issue. The next person to ask the question is mag. Majda Potter, Social Democrats. The question, however, will be asked by Mr Tomaž Gantar, Minister of Health. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! My question is related to the first item of today's agenda when there will be general consideration of the Drivers Act. Since, under the Drivers Act, the Minister responsible for health is the one who lays down the conditions for the implementation of the first aid training, the examination programme and the way in which the first aid examination records are kept, I am asking you with a question, because this will not be the work area in which we should participate in the follow-up. However, I was encouraged by the letter from the Red Cross of Slovenia addressed to Members and Members of Parliament, thinking that this law should be rejected, in particular by rejecting that provision, which speaks of the deletion of Article 67 of the Drivers Act, which refers to compulsory first aid examination. Mr. Secretary, I will not explain to you the importance of first aid because you know this better than I do. I certainly agree with those who believe that the Red Cross has done an important task in training drivers to offer first aid. The Slovenian Red Cross is one that sets the doctrine of first aid at national level and follows the example and the basis of the guidelines of the European First Aid Reference Centre. Since the Red Cross says that he did not participate in the debate on the drafting of the law, I ask you, Mr. Secretary, What is your position on the deletion of Article 67 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act, which makes it mandatory to carry out the first aid examination? And the second question: Prior to the drafting of this proposal, has the law been carried out an analysis of the effectiveness of the implementation of the first aid rate carried out by the Red Cross? If such analysis was carried out, what were the results of the analysis? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you for asking, too. I give my word to the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you for asking. In order to save people's lives and help those affected by traffic accidents, I think it is also essential to know at least the basics of first aid. And there are several facts that are known to mean lay-off first aid at the scene of accidents. If we know some basic data, 57% of deaths in traffic accidents occur in the first minutes and among survivors, about 85% of those who have survived with appropriate help on the basis of the release of the airway, or the cessation of any severe bleeding, including by lay aid. Therefore, there is no doubt that we are also advocating in the future that first aid examinations continue to be carried out by all drivers. The Ministry of Health has also opposed the deletion of this article by law in inter-sectoral coordination in the drafting of this law. The fact is, which is also the starting point for the European Commission and also for the World Health Organisation, that it is important that the first person to arrive at the site of the accident knows how to protect the site, can offer first aid, can call for appropriate assistance. And all of this was also the subject of the first aid examination. I find it difficult to answer specifically the question of who participated and based on some analyses. The drafter of this law was not the Ministry of Health, I suppose such a study has not been carried out. As it is said, our acceptance expressed our opposition to abolishing this exam.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u45	The request to complete the response will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer. I expected that, as an expert, you could not impose a mandatory first aid examination requirement; after all, we are committed to offering first aid to all those who have a driving licence, but also as citizens and citizens. There are legal frameworks that impose upon us about this. After all, the Penal Code provides for even a one-year prison sentence if the individual has not helped to save lives under the circumstances. However, I will not quote in any more detail the provisions of the Health and Health Insurance Act or the Road Traffic Safety Act. But that's what we talked about in the Drivers Act. I'd like to know another position of yours. Any knowledge of age. What kind of knowledge is faster, like later. And when the Red Cross turned to Members and Members by letter, he also mentioned the proposal to renew their knowledge. I want to know: In your opinion and in the opinion of the medical profession, should the first-aid course be renewed for all drivers? However, I would prefer not to lose words about how the deletion of Article 76 is justified because, in my view, it is completely inappropriate. Thank you very much for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u47	In order to complete my answer, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you. I, too, believe that the deletion of this article was certainly not in place and it will probably have to be changed during the debate and further consideration of this law. Now, of course, I can say here in particular my personal attitude towards the renewal of knowledge. The fact is that, like first aid, those who are more professional in medicine, including doctors, would need, in my opinion, the renewal of knowledge from the provision of emergency medical care, or first aid. Last but not least, first aid is one that is useful not only in traffic accidents but in everyday life. This would make me think earlier about a way of education that would probably make sense in the education process itself, at least knowing some basics of offering first aid. Of course, it would also be useful to renew the basic skills of first aid for drivers. The question is how practical this is. But surely it is an idea that we, like those working in the field of health, should not be opposed. I say again, but I apologize, I don't know the official position, I believe that seeing the meaning and purpose of knowing first aid is one thing for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you. I note that we have also concluded this issue and are moving on to a second round of issues. In the second round of questions, it will also raise the question of mags. Majda Potter, Minister of Culture, Dr. Urosh Grilc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! The question that I am referring to you, the distinguished Minister of Culture, may have surprised you. In your presentation to the competent committee, you have made a very precise indication of what your work plan is for the current year. Of course, you have not touched the things that work or life will bring to you. And one such issue is certainly the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on Religious Freedom. When the Office for Religious Communities was transferred to the former government of the former Ministry of Education, Science, Culture and Sport, it is now a new area within your ministry. March is a group of Members and Members, with a first-signed Magi. Matthew Tonin, tabled in the procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Religious Freedom. This proposal was given both by the public and by opposition. One of the last decisions of the outgoing government was that the Government gave a positive opinion, fully agrees with the bill and all its solutions and believes that they eliminate the unconstitutionalities established by the Constitutional Court and have repealed the individual provisions. Of course, I mean, when I read this proposal, otherwise. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has also called on Members and Members not to reject this proposal, at least in the part relating to the operation of religious representatives or hospital staff, because it considers it inappropriate. Of course, I'm aware that you couldn't get down into all the shades of this problem and you can't get down. However, I expect you to try to answer the question: How will the Ministry of Culture act on the proposed law? How will this question even be addressed, for the period in which we should correct the law is long past? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Culture, Dr. Urosh Griltz.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u52	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member of the Magi. Majda Potrat, thank you for your question. The issue of the legal regime of religious freedom or religious communities is extremely complex and extremely sensitive. A very serious and thorough consideration will be needed as to how to eliminate in the most appropriate way constitutional non-compliances with the law, in order to follow in a formal and substantive sense the constitutional principles of religious freedom, the separation of the Church from the State and the equality of religious communities. My main starting point in addressing these issues is to follow three principles: dialogue, dialogue and dialogue, because in this segment we have a mix of different rights and different arrangements that all touch on very sensitive issues. In this sense, the proposal for amendments to the law on our part is subject to reservations. First of all, the amendment suggests that the church or the religious community may be registered with at least 20 full-year members. According to the law repealed in this section, the Constitutional Court had previously numbered 100 full-year members. Notwithstanding the principle of proportionality, the proposal does not imply that the number 20 has not been established arbitrarily. An open consideration is needed as to what the lower limit is, the appropriate limit for the registration of a religious community. The responses, or rather the reactions of religious communities, show that there is no reasonable assurance that this number is the right one. Therefore, not only must this debate be opened at this point, I believe it has been open, but it must be encouraged and actively drawn to this debate by all religious communities. The proposal for legislative amendments tabled by the Group of Members points to another problem, namely the part that discusses the provision of data on the religious identity of citizens and the integration of these data with the specific rights of religious communities. Again, a very complex issue that I think cannot be easily solved in the way that partial censuses are imposed on the Statistical Office by some new methodologies that are not defined or even based on surveys as proposed. It is also not possible to draw data on the religious identity of citizens from the 2002 census because of outdated data. And not only that, of course, there was a question about religion. Since these important issues are open and, above all, and this seems crucial to me, there has not been a sufficiently broad public debate on the proposed changes, we do not support this change. We believe that this debate needs to be held and, on the basis of those comments, those stakeholders in this area, which are most concerned by the amendment of the law, can come to the most consensual solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you. The request to complete the response will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I believe that, regardless of the short time you have had, you have pointed out two basic proposals of the novel and also what we have been pointing out all the time that the consent of only large religious communities with the bill or with the law is insufficient to say that the law is acceptable to all. Of course, from my point of view, I can say that I would be happy if the law also took into account what the European guidelines require, namely that the question of religious freedom covers all the different views and views on life and the world. This is already a basic conceptual question, which I understand that you did not have enough time to deepen. But you have just pointed out two key issues, one which also concerns budgetary resources and the financing of the performance of the service, which is pointed out by the Institute of Health Insurance, and I understand that you did not answer because this has already been answered by this institution. I thank you and expect that you will be able to prepare, through an open dialogue, such a proposal for a law that will be widely supported by the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you. Is there anything else the minister would like to add? He doesn't want to. I thank the Minister and the President of the Government and the other ministers for the answers to today's agenda, which was devoted to the question of Members and Members. Procedurally. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that you, as President, should warn Members or Members of Parliament about the abuse of the institution of the question. The Prime Minister of the Government protested parliamentary issues, and then we see that the coalition raises most of the questions, only two of them were opposition. Mrs Potrata now said, "It will surprise you that I am asking this question." You can see on the outside that there is an agreed issue, and this is about the ideological topic that the coalition has been talking about not opening them up. And it is a matter of express abuse of the institution of the question of the Member States at its first session when the new government answers. I think we should warn our Members against these abuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr Jerovšek, but there are no real restrictions on asking questions from Members and Members of Parliament in the Rules of Procedure, so that your finding that the Rules of Procedure have been violated here is not correct. I think the answers were also in line with the questions raised. However, for those where the Member or Member was not satisfied with the reply, a request for discussion is made. If these proposals are put to the vote, those issues will be further discussed at the next meeting. On a case-by-case basis, Mr Only Bevk would like a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Comrade Jerovšek, opposition Members and Members of Parliament, you had the opportunity to report parliamentary questions by 12 noon yesterday after the Rules of Procedure. I'm afraid you haven't decided yet. I asked a question from the Prime Minister, who was still in your government in December. The question was about his answer from December, and I can certainly say that this question was not agreed upon in advance. I am interested in the problem, in this particular case the problem of hospital infections, which must be addressed, but not to deal with ministers on specific issues. I think your intervention has been so declassified in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u59	Now, in these procedural proposals, I would like to point out to you, however, that you have to present what kind of procedural proposal an individual debater has; otherwise, I have to conclude that there has been an abuse of the Rules of Procedure if, in the context of the request for a procedural question, it has not been presented. Also further because he has a desire for a procedural question of mags. Majda Potrat, I want you to comply with this business arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr President, I ask you to invite Mr Jerovsk to apologize to me. For the second time, he claims that I have misused the rules of procedure. I didn't abuse him in anything. The question I have raised to the Minister for Culture is related to the bill tabled by the current opposition MPs during the previous government. And the previous question I raised to Minister Gantar is also related to the topic raised by the previous government. None of the ministers I asked them had protested my question. Both answered them correctly, and neither one of them felt the need to ask me anything first. Indeed, Mr President, I ask you to invite Mr Jerovsk to apologize to me. This is now, I would like to point out, for the second time, that he has stumbled against my parliamentary right to raise questions from the Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you for your procedural proposal. I myself have seen the need to point out to Mr Jerovsk that Members and Members who ask the question can formulate this issue in accordance with the topic they believe they wish to point out to the individual minister or the President of the Government. Mr Jerovšek, you want a procedural word to apologize to the Magi. Majdi Potter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr President, when the Prime Minister of the Government began to answer the opposition's first question, she essentially protested that questions were being asked after six days. And this to the opposition Member, where the Institute of the Question of Parliament is strongly committed to the opposition, although it is also allowed to the coalition. And my colleague, Potts, said that I had convicted her of abuse. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u63	Mr Jerovšek [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u64	Rules of Procedure, one moment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u65	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u66	But I said that the misused institute of the question of the Member was a matter of importance, and this is very different, so it misquotes me in its procedural act. I didn't say she broke the rules of procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, this option has been misused by the Institute of the Affairs of the Member States. That's for sure. The President of the Government protested the issues in six days. And it's an abuse of the institute, and I can't apologize for it if it was an abused institute.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr Jerovšek, although I must admit that I expected it to be much easier if it were mags. Majda Potter apologized. I think that dialogue on this would then be simpler further. At this point, I note that there are no more notations to the debate on the procedural question, and I hereby interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Thursday 28 March 2013, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the context of the votes. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a regulation on amendments to the driver's laws and supplements. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In the context of this debate, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Igor Maher, the Minister for Infrastructure and Space for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to give a brief explanation in the introduction to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act for which a general discussion is proposed. The basic purpose of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act is the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, which consequently means the reduction of the budget expenditure for its operation and the rationalisation of regulatory, professional and other tasks related to drivers, road prevention and training, and the transfer of these tasks to the responsibility of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. The pooling of tasks within a single body is also justified in terms of centralised record-keeping necessary for the smooth performance of the administrative tasks of the Authority. The other major news of this novelty is as follows. Implementation of the amendment to Directive 2006/126/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on driving licences, namely Commission Directive 2012/36/EU of 19 November 2012 concerning the establishment of a national contact point for the cross-border exchange of data on driving licences. Establishment of legal bases for the implementation of Regulation 1071/2009/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down common rules on the conditions for the performance of the activities of the road carrier, namely the carriage of goods and the transport of passengers without a valid driving licence. Harmonising the provisions of the Act with the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Offences in Work, which sets the time at which the penalty points are deleted, and the minor editorial corrections necessary for the enforcement of the Drivers Act. In the event that the debate finds that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, the Government will have to supplement this proposal. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you for the extra presentation of the law. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Jožet Veliki, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Positive Slovenia will present the position of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u70	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The former government, in its comments to the Proposal for a Drivers Act, explains that the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety is to be abolished in order to reduce budget expenditure in this way. The Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety is a national transport safety organisation in which all professional tasks in the field of drivers, vehicles, road traffic prevention and training and transport safety are combined and linked. These are the tasks necessary to ensure greater road safety and are also required of Slovenia by the EU acquis. The draft law proposes, inter alia, the deletion of the compulsory performance of the first aid examination, i.e. Article 67, which is carried out as part of the examination for motor vehicle drivers by the candidate to the competent organisation of the Red Cross of Slovenia. According to statistics, however, it is easy to help in traffic accidents that save lives. After studies in Slovenia, about 45% of the victims receive adequate first aid and only 6% are inadequate. Adoption of the law would mean that the layman's bottoms are even less qualified to offer first aid. The proposal also makes it unclear to the government how staff from the Agency will be transferred to other jobs. In order to plan and coordinate the prevention and training tasks in road transport at local level, the draft law provides for the establishment of local communities of road traffic prevention and training councils acting as the consultative body of the mayor and to regulate the status of the Council independently. In addition, the proposal lays down fines for offences against the carriage of goods and passengers without a valid driving licence, provides for the establishment of a national contact point for the cross-border exchange of data on driving licences and imposes certain changes in educational processes in schools, imposes obligations on teachers and changes the conditions of programme operators. The proposed novel also aligns itself with the amendment of the Law on Offences. However, the bill does not follow the objective in principle, this is to ensure greater road safety. We will not support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia for this reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you, too. Mr Andrej Čuš will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The basic objective of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act is to reduce the budget expenditure for the operation of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and the rationalisation of regulatory, professional and other tasks related to drivers, road prevention and training managed by the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space transferred to the body of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. On the basis of a review of the comparative arrangements of some other European countries, such as Belgium, Spain and Italy, the area of drivers falls under the responsibility of the transport ministry. With a proposal for a law, certain administrative tasks performed by the Public Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia would be carried out by the Directorate, which will decide on individual administrative matters at the first stage. In addition, the Directorate will carry out the tasks of road safety prevention and training carried out by the RS Public Agency for Transport Safety. The draft law limits the competence for professional supervision of the implementation of the rules governing the training of candidates for motor vehicles drivers, the programmes for beginners, from the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety to the Directorate and the remaining competence for professional supervision remains with the Ministry of Transport, namely the professional supervision of the implementation of the provisions of this Law on driving licences and driving examinations. Inspection of the implementation of the provisions of the law relating to the work of entities training candidates for motor vehicles drivers, the implementation of Beginner Driver Programmes and the implementation of supplementary education programmes will remain within the competence of the traffic inspector, as proposed by law. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act fulfils the objectives of a single regulation, so that tasks will be carried out in one body – the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, which will also take over the management and management of registers and records as information support to users. In order to achieve this objective, the law mainly implements the transfer of professional and administrative tasks from the Agency to the Directorate, thereby ensuring greater control over the implementation of the rules in this area, the transfer of preventive and road transport tasks from the Agency to the Directorate, the reduction of budget expenditure, the management of all records and registers in one body, the coordination with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Offences, the coordination with European directives and the minor editorial corrections necessary for the enforcement of the Law. By deleting the text that the councils for road prevention and training in self-government local communities act as the consultative body of the mayor, self-government local communities are given the opportunity to regulate the status of the Council themselves. The municipal council shall, on a proposal from the mayor, determine the composition, mode of action and number of members. It is also added to the power of marketing inspectors to suspend the exercise of their duties under this Act and to propose to the Directorate the withdrawal or revocation of their powers if, within a period of two years, they have been given the same measure by a legislative decision for failure to comply with the conditions laid down. The debate included the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenian Driving Schools, whose proposal to recruit driving teachers, teachers of regulations and professional driving schools by concluding contracts on employment and non-collecting of business contracts, and the proposal to delete penalty points, which is one of the conditions for issuing or extending a driving teacher’s licence that has been taken into account. We support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and thus support further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you, too. Mr Srečko Meh will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u74	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it would be interesting to look at the arguments and discussions two years or three years ago when the law establishing the Transport Safety Agency was adopted. Thus, we have simply done everything that something that has not yet worked well or that has already shown good results, stopped and established something that we do not even know what it will be and what the results will be. Let me remind you that there were then pre-trial studies on possible forms of road safety organisation in the Republic of Slovenia, which indicated three options at the time. At that time, the Agency for Safety in Transport was selected as the best. It is that such a public agency is the one that can, on behalf of consumers, do on behalf of people what actually needs to be done in road transport. Therefore, the decision to organise the field of transport safety in the form of a public agency was first a professional one and then a political one. On the basis of the expert proposal, the National Assembly therefore decided and adopted the proposal to set up a Transport Safety Agency. Of course, the creation of the Agency has also made it impossible for the Agency to have direct political control of what the Agency must supervise. It is an independent investigation into the factors behind the occurrence of traffic accidents, the causes, everything that is going on in traffic. Functional independence requires clear and legal certainty to set the main objective and that the Authority, i.e. the Agency, be provided with the necessary resources and instruments to achieve this objective, irrespective of other branches of authority or other areas of authority, for which the form of a public agency as a status form of private-law was then most appropriate. Good practices in Europe also require this. The abolition of an independent transport safety authority in the form envisaged by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act eliminates exactly one of the main reasons required by the European Directive. There are even more important reasons for organisation in the form of a public agency. For example, the role of universities, societies, institutions, foundations, local communities and other civil society organisations is ensured through membership of the Agency's Council and the Road Safety Committee. A higher degree of professional independence is ensured and the agency is also an indirect budgetary user. And if we put all of the Agency’s co-workers in the Roads Directive, then there will be no costs – perhaps at this address, but the costs will certainly arise and, of course, the country will have to cover these costs directly or indirectly. However, the Agency could also work as an indirect budgetary user to provide its own resources and thereby reduce the need for budgetary resources. The Agency also provided analyses, research and provides a basis for more efficient planning, both in terms of costs and in key national transport processes and regulations. After two years instead of correcting what needed to be fixed, we're shutting down the agency. The Agency should also gradually take over the implementation of other specific programmes, including perhaps the most important rehabilitation programmes for drivers driving under the influence of alcohol. And it is clear that the reduction of points is written on the skin of those who committed violations in traffic. The question is, of course, whether we will then be able to do with a public agency or with someone else what we should do in rearing and rehabilitating drivers. The abolition of the Transport Safety Agency also results in the fragmentation of powers and responsibilities between several administrative bodies, namely the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, as the body of the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Public Administration and the police. The public agency is a national organisation that brings together all the professional tasks in the field of road traffic drivers, prevention and training and is essential for ensuring greater road safety. This is also what the European Community requires of us. The public agency is currently working in the field of road safety. It is interesting, however, that instead of extending its activities to rail and maritime transport mainly through analytical research and prevention activities, we are shutting down the agency and, of course, do not build on the work we have done. Let me reiterate that with the Agency's active operation, preventive programmes have also reduced the number of accidents. I would also like to recall that this law, which was passed in 2010, was supported by a large majority of Members and Members, since of the 61 Members present there were 50 Members and Members of Parliament. The Social Democrats will not vote in favour of further consideration of this law. This law is not in line with the unions, nor with the Red Cross, nor with the profession, i.e. with the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. Discontinuation without analysis can also have a negative impact on exam centres, including on the fact that we can have even less control in this area. We will therefore vote against the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thanks for the introduction. I give the floor to Mrs Polonci Komar, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Gazette.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Government has introduced into the legislative procedure four laws on drivers, vehicles and road traffic prevention, whose common objective or purpose is to rationalise the organisation of the state administration, to harmonise these novelties with the legal order of the European Union and to introduce some other minor changes to help ensure greater transport safety. The first among these novels is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act. The Government writes in the bill that the main solutions to the proposed law are the abolition of the Public Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which follows the objective of reducing expenditure from the State budget. In the Civil Gazette, we agree that, in given financial and economic circumstances, we have a wasteful state administration, which needs to be rationalised, optimized and debirocratised, and therefore we support proposals that eliminate unnecessary services, agencies and whose tasks can be done in a different manner. However, we find it difficult to support proposals whose main guide of the reorganisation is merely saving, but not improving the existing operation. In the Civil Gazette, we estimate that the proposed abolition of the Agency is insufficiently thoughtful and incomplete. We are convinced that we do not solve acute problems in the field of road safety by abolishing the agency and transferring employees to the ministry or body. The Agency for Safety of Traffic with 115 staff shall cover examination centres, autoschools, technical checks, approvals, planning and preparing national road safety programmes, prevention, rehabilitation workshops for guilted drivers, assessment of road infrastructure security on the ground. Its great advantage should be precisely in the pooling of personnel that were scattered across different ministries prior to the establishment of this agency in 2010. In the Civil Gazette, we join the expert public assessments so that the Agency can do its work more effectively and that some projects are being prepared and implemented too slowly. The practice shows that the operational work in the field of vehicles and drivers has been ongoing and without major problems until this area has been placed under a single resource. This is under the Ministry of the Interior. The transfer of vehicles and later drivers to the Ministry of Transport began to show the first serious problems and inconsistencies. At the time of the establishment of the Public Agency for Road Safety, this problem has been exacerbated by a lack of informed solutions and measures in practice, in particular due to uncoordinated electronic records and information solutions between the Agency, test centres and administrative units, and uncoordinated work instructions. We do not want this story to happen again in the wake of this change, so we do not support and propose to the Government that a new proposal be drawn up that will be aligned with both professional and trade unions, in the work relating to the functioning of the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council, as well as with local communities, because we are convinced that there is a need to maintain direct contact between local communities and a central institution that often does not have a good enough view of the transport problem of smaller local environments. It is also necessary to define more clearly the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications and procedures for the cross-border provision of services when preparing the proposal. For all the reasons mentioned above, we do not support the bill in the Civil Gazette. Since the amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act has the same objective, i.e. the abolition of the Public Agency for Transport Safety, we assess in the Group of the National Gazette that this proposal also needs to be complemented and upgraded. Therefore, we do not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you, too. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u78	Mr President of the National Assembly, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have put forward a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act, prepared by the former Minister and adopted on 28 February this year and sent to the National Assembly by the previous Government, quite detained. The purpose of the Act is to reorganise the activities of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, in particular its intention to abolish the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety. This involves both the transfer of staff and the new organisation of the Ministry's work areas and additional financial resources. Although we are in favour of rationalising the state administration, the MEPs and Members of the Slovenian People's Party have always supported such government proposals. In the package of five laws of the transport sector, which were adopted at one of the last meetings of the previous government three weeks ago, we are still in a dilemma. The essence of the amendment to the Drivers Act is in the reorganisation of the Ministry or its authorities, which, in our view, is the domain of its leadership, in particular the Minister. In doing so, it is particularly necessary to include in each amendment of the law both the Ministry’s professional services, the management of its key bodies in the composition as well as other departments and the professional public. According to our information, that wasn't enough time. Even the professional public was practically not involved. In doing so, we cannot pass the fact that the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Road Safety, which is hereby repealed by this package of laws, was established less than three years ago and that, with the new Ministry's leadership, we have been risking a re-amendment of the law within a few months, either to re-establish a Transport Safety Agency or for other reasons. This is particularly problematic, in our view, because any such change in laws as we have on the table today requires considerable organisational and human resources interventions, and not least a large amount of funding. However, in the opinion of the Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party, the often changing of such important laws is unacceptable and irresponsible both to operators of administrative procedures and to drivers and to public treasury. However, when considering such important laws in the National Assembly, we would like at least to have them, in the legislative process on behalf of the proposer, namely the government, defend the leadership of the Ministry with full powers. Although several amendments and additions have been proposed with the amendment of the law and also compliance with the acquis of the European Union. There is certainly also a need and justification among them, and some solutions, in our view, should be better developed. With regard to the content of the proposed amendment to the Drivers Act, we have in particular taken note of the suspension of the compulsory first aid examination as part of the driving licence. The explanation given that such an obligation is not prescribed in some countries, such as Italy, France, Spain, and that the first aid content would upgrade the theoretical training of candidates for drivers is not sufficient. In this regard, the Slovenian People's Party would like to have a more specific explanation of the Minister, i.e. how and how such an important part of the driving test will be compensated for in theoretical training. If I can sum it up. In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the proposed amendment does not involve such changes or additions to the law, which could have resulted in irreparable consequences over a period of more than a month, especially since the Government's decision to abolish the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety is now more than a year away, and it is likely that it can wait a few months. In particular, in the event of further consideration of this law, it is necessary to take into account that the envisaged reorganisation requires a simultaneous amendment of three laws – in addition to the Drivers Act, the amendment of the Roads Act and the Motor Vehicles Act. In the Slovenian People's Party, we propose that the planned reorganisation of the Ministry and other amendments to the Drivers Act be examined within two or three months by the new Minister with the team. We hope that we will find him as soon as possible and expect the Government to resubmit him to the hearing and to the adoption of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you, too. Mrs Marija Plevčak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. A beautiful and warm greeting to all present! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act is one of the proposals of the so-called transport legislative package prepared by the previous government. This novel is mainly based on the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and the transfer of its tasks to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. According to the applicant, this decision was taken in order to reduce the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and to streamline the performance of regulatory, professional and other tasks related to drivers, prevention and road transport education. In 2010, employees were transferred to the Agency from the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior and the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and from administrative units. After not three years we have redistributed these employees – this time from the Public Agency for Transport Safety to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. At the time of the first redeployment, government employees were promised that their situation would not deteriorate. However, this time they will be reassigned as the novel foresees that public officials who will carry out official duties will be appointed to the lowest title of the official job. In the DeSUS Group, we find such a decision difficult to agree with because we believe that employees should not lose the rights they have gained with good work. At the same time, we must not forget that the Agency is co-financed by action for greater safety in transport, such as for example a very receptive action I am still driving, but I am not walking if, of course, it has sufficient financial resources for something like this. We also cannot agree with the deletion of Article 67 of the current Drivers Act, which provides that the first aid examination is mandatory as part of the examination for motor vehicles drivers. According to our assessment, the first aid examination should remain a compulsory part of the driving test, as this teaches future drivers to offer first aid not only in cases of accidents but also in their lives. That our position is also correctly confirmed by the results of the joint action under the Eurotest consortium, which brings together European automotive clubs, including the Auto-Moto Association of Slovenia, where clubs, with the assistance of national Red Cross organisations, carried out a special examination of the driver's knowledge of first aid. It turned out that 17% of Slovenian drivers knew exactly what they had to do in first aid cases, as they also proved in practical verification. Even better, our drivers have been in the process of reviving an unconscious injured person, as they have proved to be better than the European average in both theoretical and practical knowledge. At the same time, it is obvious that national organisations led by the United Nations adopted a resolution on transport safety for the decade in 2009. Since May 2011, Slovenia has also been one of those countries that actively pursues the goal of halving the number of dead and injured in transport by 2020. Therefore, according to the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, it is unwise to delete a provision that can bring a lot of benefits and, last but not least, save a life in a traffic accident. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party, we will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment states in explanation that one of the main reasons for amending the existing driver law is the desire to rationalise part of the public administration by abolishing the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and to assume the tasks of its competence by one body which will regulate the area of transport safety in an integrated manner. In addition, this amendment of the law to the Slovenian legal order transposes the European Commission Directive adopted in autumn 2012. The Directive provides that Member States of the European Union should assist each other in exchanging information on driving licences. The amendment shall also be coordinated with the Offences Act, which provides that the driver of the penalty point shall be deleted after two years from the legal decision and no longer after three years, as has been settled so far. In Novi Slovenija we support the changes leading to a more rational public administration, which is why we support this law in principle. It is true, however, that some initiatives have already emerged in public regarding the amendment of the Drivers Act, which should be examined in the legislative process and, if their eligibility is demonstrated, included in the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Mr Franz Jurša, Mrs Renata Brunskole, should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will rely on the reply of the Minister of Health, who asked me the question of the question, what was the position of the Ministry of Health in inter-departmental coordination of the bill. It is clear from the reply that the Ministry recognises the importance of first aid management. And if we delete Article 67, which thus absolves each driver to pass the first aid examination, it is available to the individual or to the individual whether this examination will be carried out or not. And here I have a fundamental question. I've already said that under the Penal Code, if you don't put your life on the line, a prison sentence of up to one year can be imposed. And it seems better to me that if we are already punishing someone, it is a punishment to abandon this act, to force them to do the first aid examination, and to warn them that it is an important activity. This is a humanitarian, solidarity activity which must, of course, be carried out properly. I agree with all those who say that theory is not enough, but that it is also necessary to become practical. Nor do I see any reason to oppose the fact that someone is renewing knowledge. But it simply seems to me that such training is a preventive activity and to promote awareness of how we, as road users, are responsible for ourselves and also for everyone else, not only when we are causing an accident, but also when we are driving past an accident, we are obliged to help. I don't know how TV videos should depend on talking about how we should get on the road if we also see in each video a warning about how important first aid is. So much for this part. I'm not gonna talk in another one for long, but I'd just say something. In the National Assembly, I witnessed the adoption of a number of laws based on the removal of bureaucratic barriers. If the Public Agency for Road Safety is also removed from this aspect, what is in this bill is not sufficient reasoning and I therefore do not support such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Just Bevk's turn. Mr Dragan Bosic should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The purpose of all three laws which are in government procedure is in fact the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, which is why I will not support the Drivers Act. This is an explicit political move by the previous coalition. We know that the Public Agency for Road Safety was established under the mandate of the previous government in 2010, when Dr Patrick Vlačič was Minister of Transport and Borut Pahor was Prime Minister. In order to transfer this independent public agency to the Roads Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, it is said that not even the Roads Directorate itself has been asked and has actually been put to the test. I think that we need an independent public road safety agency also because good results have been shown in its work, and in the last few years traffic accidents have also been reduced, including those with the worst results. This is not only the credit of the Agency, but also the credit of the Agency, although these elements, which have contributed to road safety, are more. When I look, for example, at the list of members of the board of the agency that the government has replaced – the government that has now left – I must say that it is very good experts from various fields. To mention something: Prof. Dr. Ivan Prebil, Prof. Dr. Tomaž Tolacci, then Vinko Can and some others. For example, among them is someone who has run an administrative unit for 18 years and certainly has experience in this area. When I looked online at who replaced these experts in the world of the agency, I found that this was a very political party recruitment, since the main reference was that they were members of an organisation area, a political party or the largest political party who previously led the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is said that the political staff have changed professionally and it would be interesting if you remembered the list of political staffing of the Pahor government, which was published daily by the Slovenian Democratic Party website and if we were to put on a similar website now, surely all these new members of the Agency's Council would appear on this list. In addition, this novel has a number of other negative articles that make changes that are not good, such as the amendments to the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council, not to mention the deletion of mandatory first aid examination provisions, which has already been pointed out by the Red Cross organisation, or the transfer of employees from the Agency to the Republic of Slovenia Directorate, because employees who have come from different ministries have certain official positions, and now they would actually be named by this law as the lowest official job and would in fact degrade them in this way. As a matter of fact, I object to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. It is Mr Dragan Bosic's turn to prepare Dr Ljubica Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome, especially to the new fellow Members and a colleague who is not here at the moment. As far as the law is concerned. Every marriage needs some kind of evolution, it needs some change, but changes that lead to better. I'd like to give you just one example of drivers or driving examinations. Some of you probably remember the motor science that was necessary to master that exam, and in these 50 years cars have changed so much that today this matter is completely meaningless. Different lamps shall appear on the screen and the service shall be notified and then the action shall be taken. I will give this as an example of some good practice, something that history has now put aside or put aside. Here, however, I would argue mainly about the first aid examination. In fact, unlike cars, we haven't changed in these last years, we're breathing the same, we're bleeding the same, so all systems work exactly the same. To remove the compulsory first aid examination, it may be replaced with some kind of a lover or not with what, it is, to say the least, irresponsible. Article 67 is an irresponsible act and those who are willing to delete it should also face some responsibility. What's the dilemma? The dilemma is what colleague Majda Potat pointed out earlier. We are obliged to offer first aid, whether we have an exam or not. I'm afraid of those who offer first aid to the bride. You might want to look at some statistics here, too. I think that colleague of Jože Velenja is something about this statistics before – I was not in the hall at that time. This means that the system needs to be continued or improved there. The Minister of Health also answered the question of the importance of my thinking in favour. Schools, in particular, have already run out of systems. Students who are on the verge of a full-time examination have been organised in the framework of compulsory selection content and have organised this education, which makes sense. That's when they're full of knowledge, and then they've got a few more anatomys, physiology. Once again, the law, clearly, will not support from everything that has been stated, I would not debate the agency, but the key option of deleting Article 67 of the law is at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr Ljubica Jelusic has the word to prepare Mr Ivan Hršak, then Mag. Ivan Vogrin. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I should also point out in the opening that I am joining all my colleagues and colleagues who have found that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act is not suitable for further discussion and I do not support it. I would even say that this law, as it is now prepared, was not even suitable for adoption by the Committee on State Procedure and Public Affairs, so-called ‘the ODUJZ’, which is a government body, because it does not meet some of the basic criteria for being adopted by the government at all. First of all, it is unacceptable that not all the bodies concerned by this amendment have been taken into account in the public debate on the amendments to this Act. It follows from the material that the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia were taken into account, that there is no mention of Red Cross organisations directly affected by the abolition of Article 67 of the Drivers Act. It seems even less acceptable to me that the Ministry of Health and its position has not been taken into account, as we heard at today's meeting on questions of Members and Members when it came to deleting article 67 of the Drivers Act. I suppose that it was unlikely that even the opinion of the Ministry responsible for public administration was taken into account, since in the material submitted by the previous Government, a very unusual context was mentioned when it came to the transfer of those public servants who had worked at the Public Transport Safety Agency so far, namely, they were to be transferred to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, but only to those public servants who would be necessary to carry out the tasks transferred from the Agency without delay. There is nothing to say about what will happen to all the other employees who were transferred from different authorities of the state administration in 2010, as has already been said today. I think that at least the Ministry of Public Administration, or the one responsible for the position of public servants, was obliged to point out that public servants are also guaranteed their work, obligations and rights by law and cannot be transferred from one body to another just as easily, not as has already been mentioned today, to put them in the lowest official position. One reason for amending this law was that there is a need to combine transport safety tasks in one body and that integrated regulation is needed. But these were the reasons why the Public Transport Safety Agency was also established. These same arguments were made in 2010 by our government in order to unite the tasks relating to transport safety, which were dispersed in four or five different parts of the state administration, at that time in one place. In this one place, it would be right for this agency, the Public Transport Safety Agency, to show what it can do and what it can do. We have also seen that the public agency has already drawn up and coordinated the national road safety programme for the period 2013-2022. We have obtained this material, i.e. the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme for the period 2013 to 2022, to be discussed in Parliament, which has a date of 13. 3. 2013 It is very interesting that in this material, which was also confirmed by this same, the previous government, which also sent us an amendment to the Drivers Act by which the Public Transport Safety Agency terminates the operation of the Public Agency for Transport Safety between 2013 and 2022, provides in this resolution for the functioning of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. This is understandable, of course, because this public agency has also prepared the entire resolution on the national road safety programme. It is interesting, however, that the previous government in this final foie gras has been indifferent to the fact that it is sending uncoordinated or contradictory materials to Parliament. I would point out another nonconsistency, to which colleagues and colleagues have already warned, at the request of the first aid examination obligation to be lifted. The government says that because it notes that it is only a document obtained by drivers and that nothing is true, nothing serious can be learned from these examinations, for this is supposed to be reflected in the inappropriate reactions of drivers. The problem is that they do not provide us with any research or data to prove that the first aid examination does not really affect the ability of drivers and other road users to react to their accidents. But interestingly, here in his explanation of article 35, he says, "with the contents of first aid, it would make sense to upgrade existing theoretical training in driving schools." But right, so obviously this law has changed so that, if the first aid test carried out by the Red Cross organisations has already been abolished, these same contents will be included in some other form of theoretical or practical training for driving schools and not that it is obviously expected to happen again in the future; so that this will be incorporated into another law or any other amendment to the law. In short, I note that this was clearly the purpose of the amendments to this driver law in that it was indeed to abolish any acquisition which, from 2010 onwards in one place, would combine transport safety tasks and that this safety of transport would indeed be dealt with by experts from different areas of transport; therefore, that this agency should be discontinued and that some of its tasks would then make sense to the DRSC. I oppose such hand-to-hand forms of legislation, even on the basis of my own experience in the work of the government. I think it was inappropriate for such uncoordinated and poorly prepared material to appear in Parliament at all, because I see that it was inappropriate even for adoption within the committees of the then government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ivan Vogrin, prepare Mr Jerko Čehovin and then Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't think anyone will speak for a simple reason anymore because it's a very unproductive thing. All data indicate that agencies, funds, some state and parastatal services are at least half too much. Any attempt to bring something together in order to rationalise something in order to relieve the state budget, in order to relieve the economy in order to relieve the population, comes now on one side of the wall and now on the other side of the wall. I'm sure I'll report a doctoral dissertation on the subject that intelligence always moves aside. For some who are now a party to the position were also formerly a party to the position, and if there was no replacement, they would now defend the solution of the so-called Janša government. Interesting! And that's what's pushing this Slovenia down. We are not looking for good solutions, we are looking for solutions that are now on one side, and now the other manage to get through the legislative process. When I reviewed the legislation that we are considering today, it is a large conglomerate of imprecise laws, sub-laws, guidelines that serve no one. We have very little to gain from this. Laws should begin to be written by those who know something — not by state bureaucrats, not by state administration. And above all, it should be simplified. We were also reminded of this by the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Igor Soltes – but we forget what anyone has ever said because we are always in a frenzy of madness – who said the following when I asked him why there were so many violations of laws and regulations. For one basic reason, he said that the laws were too extensive to be transparent and lifeless. So on these four points we should start working and justify sitting in Parliament and getting paid. Everything else: the caravan goes ahead and the dogs bark – 21 years old and we go bankrupt. Believe it or not, the 11th government says: the best government, the best ministers, the best measures. Last time I asked you what you'd think of me, my company went bankrupt, and I ran it. So I went through the whole thing critically, and I said, "I'm never going to do it again." And I'm not gonna do it! But we explain or explain politics – well, I don't explain it – and the best solutions for every government and we in bankruptcy! Does that go with logic?Oh, my God! It's not working! No, it doesn't. It doesn't make sense. That doesn't make sense. I think people are slowly getting us all over their heads. No pay, no company closes every day; as soon as you open the newspaper — you better not open it! Now this company doesn't get paid, now that company. See if it says today that April will be a problem because tax revenues are falling and will continue to decline. But if we do things that do nothing to create added value, we will not live by laws! [[...]] What are we gonna start eating these marriages or what?Oh, my God! We need to create products and services that will be sold on the world market because the Slovenian market is too small, and those we have experienced would like to produce if we had anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor, Mr Janko Weber is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u94	Dear President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I will begin the debate myself on the Drivers Act more from a global perspective, not so much with the details and details themselves. The law mainly regulates rationalisation and reduces both budget expenditure and costs for all users, it is said to all drivers. If I look back, this law was adopted on a basic basis, complemented at different times back, when one of the important criteria was not a financial aspect or the consequences of enacting the law as certain content in this law. I would say that these effects were quite contrary at the time of adoption and complementarity. It is the easiest thing to establish a certain public agency, the easiest responsibility to place from one’s own shoulders to another, is to say, the agency and, as in other cases, the law still provides certain business to certain institutions. When I look at the final report on the legality and efficiency of the work and operations of the Public Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia over the last two years, this is further confirmed by my position. It identifies 7 irregularities and deficiencies in the operation of the Agency. In short, control itself did not work during this period. This is confirmed only by the fact that the Public Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia needs to be abolished and the other procedures in the law absolutely cheap. This is not the only example of procedures in this law, and in other laws it is also that we are strong in our legislation over the European average. Dear colleagues, does anyone wonder where we're going to be taking it from, how we're going to finance it, and where are we going to get it from? Dear fellow Members, I have heard you today, because this is what the state has to pay for. I don't think you know the difference between two concepts: what's right or what's good. Yes, it is very good, as it has been said today, that the state must pay for it. And I wonder if it's right that that marriage ballast that doesn't need to be paid by the state. And that's where these things have to be separated. If I now limit myself to just one substantive issue, today's most sang-out first aid exam. I would say that the first aid examination must be carried out by all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Everybody, not just the drivers! Whether it's in primary school, I don't know, in the ninth grade of elementary school, whether it's in secondary school, in vocational education -- in short, everyone, but not that we limit it and make a family out of it just for the drivers. Once again, those of you who oppose it ask, "Where are you going to get it?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Well, if I start with that particular question where we're going to take it. When we talk about road safety, however, we must be aware that it is of utmost importance to maintain life in road transport, including in the whole system, which operates either on the roads, either on the sea or in the air, and that means must also be provided for this purpose, so that both professional and civil society can successfully integrate their knowledge into this process. It is not possible to resolve everything simply and only through the work of the individual ministry or possible direction, as set out in this proposal of the law repealing the Road Safety Agency, since this law then provides that certain services should be ordered from external operators and, if we are talking about costs, then certainly this law also does not bring any savings from this view, but only provides a new way of financing all other external institutions that are supposed to carry out certain tasks, but it is not evaluated in any way, in what way this will be done and if, at the final stage, the implementation of road safety activities will be cheaper or more costly. The attempt years ago, aimed at establishing a Road Safety Agency, followed, above all, that due to a rational approach to collecting all the data necessary for you to manage this difficult issue, you are organised from one place and that in this case you also have experts from all areas involved in the Agency. Thus, the efficiency of work and the monitoring of everything necessary in the field of road safety are certainly easier and more effective if this is collected in one agency. Let me just remind you that before that, she had tried to manage this task in an intergovernmental way an organisation that acted precisely on the basis that she had collected all this data and tried to analyse it. It is precisely because of the difficulties in funding NGOs that a decision has been taken to ensure the principle of financing road safety directly from the budget, precisely because we are not in a position to do so at some point. I would, however, like the Agency to involve civil society in its process even more effectively, which also directly physically carries out its activities in the field. Here I would like to recall the fact that the associations of drivers and auto mechanics have been carrying out this task on the ground for years, especially at the time of the first school day. I think we can all be proud together that this project has achieved the desired goal of road safety: no accidents and no road traffic casualties. This is something that we must respect extremely, and I want the Agency to take such measures further, so that we will also achieve this goal, not only on these difficult and sensitive days when the first school days begin. This requires continuous education for all participants, young and old alike, and what is particularly important, although offering first aid is something that is welcome at any time. The only organized way we have this moment, which is very well established and extended, was through the exam that you had to do when you were getting your driver's license. The fact that you can offer first aid to someone is extremely important, for the first - aid task is to last until there is urgent help, where the professional level of assistance is significantly higher; but that first moment is very important and very important, that you can respond. We could have obtained this through the examination, which was also needed for the first aid when you were taking the driving test. This intervention in this area was indeed very uncontrolled with this law. All the observations given to the Agency not to exercise their powers are also clearly rejected by a letter that we have received from all Members and Members. The fact is that the Agency has carried out tasks in all areas, but where it has found irregularities, it has reacted and forwarded to the competent authorities to investigate or to delve into these irregularities. Of course, at that time, the agency can no longer exercise control if someone else has taken control of it and will be qualified to do so. I also assess that this law is not suitable for further consideration, and I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. Let Mr Jože Veliko be prepared and then Mr Happy Meh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, the minister with the team, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! Like many of my colleagues, I will not vote for the law to continue in the legislative process. If anything, the most precious thing is a man's life. The fact found is that when serious traffic accidents occur, the most important aid is to those who are directly in the presence of the injured person; and these are usually laymen. It is their knowledge that is essential to save lives, especially in the case of cardiac arrest and airway release, for then their work can be properly continued by professional organizations or trained paramedics. The fact is that 80 % of the people who carry out the driving licence also carry out the first aid course or appropriate training, where the most emphasis is on practical work, is on insurance for the injured person, revitalising the injured person, etc. The fact is that such training produces positive results, which is why 55 countries within the European Union also regulate such training legally and mandatory. Why would this good example, which undoubtedly contributes to preventing the number of fatal accidents, somehow make it difficult for me to do so. Why are we going this way? You can't get rid of the impression that someone's been disturbed by the Red Cross organization that's been doing this kind of professionally for years. And not just that! We should also consider forgetting our knowledge from time to time, and continuing training in our mature life and in this kind of knowledge-renewal process should be needed more frequently. That is how we should think, for it is indisputably one of the main strategic directions of the European Union that the reduction of deaths and serious injuries in the event of traffic accidents are. That is to say, the path that has already been set up should be upgraded and complemented, not going in the opposite direction! No, ladies and gentlemen! It's not just paper, it's knowledge, it's knowledge we're getting. Of course, we must strive to preserve and upgrade it. Therefore, I am absolutely not in favour of such solutions, and I will not support the law. Perhaps even this: about the agency, my colleagues and colleagues have said a lot, but this agency was not created by flies and the ideas of the previous government, but was created on the basis of a thorough analysis of what is happening in other countries and following this positive example. Of course, focusing on problems, analysing problems can lead to more appropriate action, and drowning certain organisations in some others is a denial of the problem, reducing activities and hiding under the cover of de-de-irocracy. Look, if I look at the human resources solutions that the former government has enjoyed in the past period – amazing how many jobs you have found in various agencies for your thinkers and former members of the government. Thus — no, such exits and excuses cannot be excused for writing laws that will undoubtedly not contribute to greater road safety. In short, you don't have my vote to continue the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I understand that all of you have also been given the floor by the reported debaters who wanted to do so. I also note that the time set for the debate has not yet expired, and I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Yes, I do. I'm opening an application for discussion, please sign in. Mr. Stephen Tisell has the floor. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you for your words, Mr President, very nice greeting to all Members of Parliament and Members present! I will touch on my own Article 35 of the novelty of this Road Traffic Act or on road users. I agree with those who have already mentioned the deletion of Article 67 of the existing law, because it is now well arranged for first aid to be carried out at the time of the driving test and also regulated at the Red Cross, which has this power in addition to other powers. Of course, it is a humanitarian organisation, and it also has the public authority to collect blood in the field of blood supply and in the field of first aid courses and examinations, both for nurses and for first aid teams as well as for future motor vehicles drivers. We know that the course is not compulsory, although it would be welcome, because some candidates have already conducted these courses in primary schools in other areas, even in other organisations, these courses are compulsory and only perform the exam. If there is nothing else then they will be familiar with the most urgent measures needed to save lives or not to have the most serious consequences. We have also heard that this is the legal obligation of all citizens, not just drivers, and this is one possibility to at least get to know each other. Unless they do something wrong, because with the wrong first aid, they can do more harm than they can do nothing. However, they are obliged to do the right thing. The Red Cross has trained lecturers of healthcare professionals who are required to carry out a three-year licence. The Red Cross of Slovenia also has its own professional centre, which takes care of current innovations at the European level. It is so wrong for this article to be abolished, even writing in explanation so far away that it may have been done by the school. I have to replicate to my colleague the fact that there are no qualified people there can only be profit to make more money, because the Red Cross is committed to the rest of the funds that are not spent on the lecturer and the material, just for the charity of the Red Cross. As in Austria, the Red Cross has rescue services and this profitable activity, the funds are somehow used for the purpose of the Red Cross, for humanitarian activities. Thus in Slovenia the Red Cross, these regional associations dealing with these lectures and exams, devote the resources remaining to charity in their field. That is how I support and agree with all those who are in favour of this staying. It may be necessary to consider that for certain periods it is not possible to check, but that drivers and other citizens also have the opportunity to get acquainted with the novelty. Let's say one anecdotes. It happened that, in earlier times, a motorist drove and blew in front of him, so he turned his jacket around and sang it in the back. He had an accident, he turned over, and then the people who came to help him saw that his head was turned upside down and they wanted to turn it around, so it would be reversed, and, of course, they had the opposite effect. Once again, for this very reason, this article, I will not be able to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! The proposed amendment to the Drivers Act abolishes the Public Transport Safety Agency. This independent transport safety authority was established during the Pahor government due to the extremely poor road safety situation. I myself was then among those 50 Members and Members of Parliament since 61, which we supported the establishment of the Security Agency. It was a big consensus, a high consensus, regardless of the political party. For the organisation of the field of transport safety in the form of a public agency, a professional decision was first and foremost, followed by a political decision. The state of security improved significantly during this period, as the number of deaths in 2008 was declining by the end of 2012. In 2008, there were 214 victims and in 2012 130 victims on our roads. Of course, we cannot say that all of this is solely due to the activities and activities of the security agency, but it must be stressed that important movements have also been made in the field of road infrastructure, i.e. transport infrastructure. Only the lower leg of the highway, which we have talked about a lot, has in the last two years, since the completion of this section of an important and extremely traffic road, achieved a practical result in the area of road safety: there have been almost no fatalities in this section. In the past, however, we know that almost every week there was at least one, if not more fatalities. There was something extremely big and heavy, heavy traffic accidents. Article 67 of the Act, which speaks of first aid examinations – it is right for the matter to remain as it has been so far. Therefore, it is mandatory to carry out the first aid examination before carrying out the driving test. Comrade Tiesel also explained a number of these matters as a professional physician, as well as in connection with the functioning of the Red Cross and the intention of using the remainder of the funds. When we look at traffic accidents, there are still important first-time behaviours in the event of a traffic accident and then usually road users are just drivers. In those first moments, a test will certainly help to ensure that all who have passed the first aid examination know how to act — at least at the most necessary. This very first moment in a time of traffic accident can be fatal for a person involved in a traffic accident; it is doomed not to survive or be doomed to the point where life is saved. For every life, however, we know how important it is, especially if we are able to maintain and maintain it. Article 6 of the bill provides for or defines the establishment of councils for prevention and training in road transport at local level, or the decisions of both mayors, i.e. representatives of local communities and municipal councils. In many municipalities this matter is already regulated, different – here I think that as a consultative body of the mayor connected to the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council. I remember myself having a consultative body like the mayor. And the first day of school for children who start attending school, as colleague Weber had discussed earlier, is certainly the one where these saints are actively working with drivers and auto mechanics, retired police officers and all those who become active in those days. For the Drivers Act itself, I estimate that, in such a form at a given time, it is not suitable for further consideration. It is also necessary to include the Slovenian Directorate for Roads, which was not included in the drafting of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, Thursday, 28 March 2013, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the road laws. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With regard to this bill, a group of 26 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister, Mr Igor Maher.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to introduce a brief presentation of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Roads Act, for which a general discussion is proposed. The amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act deal with two substantive areas, namely, the arrangements for the delegation of tasks and responsibilities in the field of roads by the Public Transport Safety Agency, which is to be abolished by the previous proposal of the Drivers Act, and certain amendments to other provisions of the law that are to remove certain administrative obstacles and contribute to improving the implementation of this Act in practice. Amendments to the Drivers Act provide for the abolition of the Public Agency for Transport Safety. This authority is currently carrying out road training and road safety assessment tasks in the field of roads, as well as keeping records of designated auditors. These tasks are intended to be carried over to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads by means of an upcoming amendment to the Roads Act. To this end, the transfer of one staff member is envisaged. The drawing up of death reports on roads included in the European road network and the issuance of decisions imposing an remedy on the operator for irregularities identified by the road safety assessor are to be transmitted directly to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. No new employment is foreseen for the performance of these tasks. Among the other innovations of this novel, I should point out in particular the following: simplification of the procedure for issuing technical specifications and technical guidelines applicable to the construction, design and maintenance of public roads; publication in the Official Journal will no longer be mandatory, and texts will be made available to the public in the form of publications on the websites. Certain responsibilities are granted to tollers which will contribute to greater safety of transport and infrastructure. In this way, toll inspectors will be able to secure the place of the accident and the toll monitor will also have the authority to monitor the implementation of the rules on maximum permissible masses and axle loads. Travel controllers may exercise their powers only on motorways. A road operator who has been found to be in breach of the rules on maximum permissible masses and axle loads shall be given the possibility of recovery for exceptional transport at an altitude as measured if an appropriate permit was obtained. Reimbursement is a source of road repair that is damaged by excessive axle loads and excessive vehicle mass. The violator of such rules harms road infrastructure and it is therefore right that he should also pay the appropriate compensation. The bill also contains minor editorial corrections necessary to enforce the law. So much for the intro. Mr Vice-President, Members and Members, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Žnidar on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u106	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The amendments and additions to the Roads Act mainly relate to two substantive areas. First of all, it is the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and the transfer of its powers to another State authority. This specifically regulates the transfer from the Public Agency for Transport Safety to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, while some of these tasks will be transferred directly to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. Secondly, it is a matter of amendments and additions to the law which have proved necessary on the basis of its implementation so far. Some rigid solutions in the installation and construction of road and cycling connections are being addressed, following the principle of adapting solutions to specific circumstances. This will also be the case when bus stops are established along main and regional roads, where the characteristics of the road will be taken into account to a greater extent and regulated, for example, by speed limits in a settlement where or where only the station is established. The procedure for issuing technical specifications and technical guidelines applicable to the construction, design and maintenance of public roads shall be simplified. The way in which technical specifications and technical guidelines are drawn up and issued will be further regulated by the Under-Law of the Minister. On the roads they also set up a number of notices to inform traffic participants, such as various restaurants, gas services, tourist attractions. The road operator shall decide on the setting up of such a signal. That regulation, which is already in force for the countries of the road, extends to all roads, as well as to municipal roads. Where investment maintenance works and maintenance works are carried out in public interest, the authorisation for the use of the road issued by the Minister responsible for the transport, in the case of public roads or mayor in the case of local roads shall be withdrawn. The conditions for use of the road are an expert technical review. The properness and use of the road shall be decided by the controller himself and shall take full responsibility for his decision, not that he is a minister or mayor. The proposed amendment also confers certain responsibilities on tollers, especially in the area of motorways. In this way, toll inspectors will be able to secure the place of the accident and will also have control over the maximum permissible weights and masses. In the implementation of the rules on maximum total and maximum permissible masses, the operator of the road where the infringement of the rules has been established shall also give the possibility to recover the reimbursement for exceptional transport at an altitude as measured if an appropriate permit was obtained. Reimbursement is a source of rehabilitation and rehabilitation of roads that are damaged by excessive axle loads. Furthermore, the law itself simplifies the procedure for the use of state road for events that do not impede road traffic. In such a case, the operator’s authorisation is not required and the organiser of the event is obliged to provide the controller with the necessary information. This law also no longer regulates the need for an elaboratory for road closures in the event of the event itself. In the field of information and advertising, the current regulation is not entirely appropriate, as it does not contain sufficiently clear restrictions on the establishment of information and advertising facilities. In practice, it is found that information facilities containing components which, by color, form or symbol, resemble traffic signalling and thus have a negative impact on traffic safety are being set up. Since the law alone achieves primarily a more rational implementation of the law, a more effective implementation of the tasks, a solution to problems in the practical implementation of the law itself, and greater security in transport, we will support the proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk only, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The package of laws that we are considering today has been tabled by the previous Government in the National Assembly, and the main purpose is to abolish the Public Agency for Road Safety and to transfer its powers to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. The proposed amendment to the Road Act, however, brings some changes to which we do not oppose in the Group of Social Democrats. They address shortcomings and simplify individual procedures, address certain rigid solutions in the installation and construction of road and cycling links, bus stations and pedestrian crossings, following the principle of adapting solutions to specific circumstances, ensuring the highest possible measure of traffic safety. The amendment to Article 35 simplifies the procedures for the establishment of bus stops and the conditions for the establishment of stops on the road when this does not affect traffic safety. The conditions for the establishment of stations will therefore be adapted to the specific circumstances of the road and the settlement where they are situated. In doing so, I should remind myself of the complications in 2011 and also in 2012, when quite a few stations have been eliminated, which have been used by people for decades, but there were no spatial conditions for other solutions. Such stations are expected to be several thousand in the country and 11 thousand in Slovenia. The amendment simplifies procedures for the establishment of cycling links and the construction of cycling routes. It should be noted that the elements and characteristics of the link will be decided on a case-by-case basis, as circumstances affecting the transparency and safety of cycling links vary widely. The procedure for issuing technical specifications and technical guidelines applicable to the construction, design and maintenance of public roads is simplified and publication in the Official Journal will no longer be mandatory. Where investment maintenance works and maintenance works are carried out in public interest, the authorisation for the use of the road issued by the Minister responsible for the transport, in the case of public roads or mayor in the case of municipal roads shall be withdrawn. In the implementation of the rules on maximum total or maximum permissible masses, the operator of the road which has been found to be in breach of the rules shall be given the possibility of recovery of the emergency transport refund. The travel controller will be able to secure the site of the accident and will also have the authority to control the rules on maximum permissible masses, and the toll supervisors can exercise their powers only on motorways. Procedures for the use of the State road for events that do not impede road transport shall also be simplified. The proposal also addresses the area of public road information and advertising. In practice, it is found that such objects are set up, which by color, form or symbol resemble traffic signalling and will therefore be prohibited. This novelty brings some other changes, while this amendment also brings the abolition of the Public Agency for Transport Safety of the Republic of Slovenia, which we oppose in the Group of Social Democrats, since the public agency provides a higher degree of professional independence of road safety, in line with the standards of the most secure Member States of the European Union. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety would be detrimental to people and their safety in transport. As it brings novels on the Roads Act some very good solutions, we will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats and we will abolish the articles on the abolition of the Agency in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ms Polonca Komar has the floor on behalf of the Group of the National Gazette, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Roads Act in one part follows the amendments introduced by the amendment to the Drivers Act, thus abolishing the Public Agency for Transport Safety and transferring its powers to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. In the second part, however, it brings quite a few less difficult changes, which in practice have proved necessary in order to ensure greater safety in transport and to remove administrative barriers. This simplifies procedures for the installation and construction of road and cycling links; to a greater extent, specific circumstances or characteristics of a particular road, such as the establishment of bus stations, will be taken into account. We welcome the simplification of the procedure in the issue of technical specifications and guidelines and in the execution of investment maintenance works and maintenance works for the public benefit where the authorisation for the use of the road is abolished, as well as in the use of the state road for the purpose of the public event. As I have already said today, we are assessing in the Civil Gazette that the solutions currently proposed for the abolition of the Transport Safety Agency are not sufficiently thought out and developed and do not support them. However, we support all simplifications of procedures which, in addition to decommissioning for the parties to the procedure, also bring greater safety in transport. Since the amendment can be complemented and upgraded accordingly, in the Group of the National Gazette, we believe that the proposal for a Law on amendments and amendments to the Roads Act is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič, on behalf of the Polish Group of the Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u112	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! After only two years of implementing the new transport legislation, one of which is also one of the key acts of the Road Act and about nine months since its first amendment, which has aligned the law with European legislation, we have a second amendment to the Roads Act, which is quite extensive in its content. The proposed amendments to the law, similar to the amendments to other transport laws that we are considering today, are most closely followed by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia last February, which abolished the Public Transport Safety Agency and envisaged the transfer of its tasks to the Roads Directorate and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. So far, everything is well and well, since the former government or coalition, part of which was also the Slovenian People's Party, has sought to rationalise the functioning of the state administration or the public sector as wisely as possible. Perhaps a slightly more problematic part of the legal changes that raise questions about whether there are gaps in the current situation where we have a particular area that falls within the competence of the ministry responsible for transport. The new minister, even though he represents the Government physically today, we have lost sight of him after all five days after he took office and his replacement is not yet in sight. So we're in some kind of vacuum where we don't even know who's defending the proposed law at all or what's the position of the new government on the proposed changes. The proposed amendments, in addition to the delegation of powers from the Public Agency for Transport Safety to the Road Safety Directive, also refer to the simplification of the procedure for issuing technical specifications and guidelines for the construction, design and maintenance of public roads, which should be regulated by the Under-Law of the Minister. The liability of road traffic controllers is increased, such as the insurance of the site of a traffic accident, the use of roads in investment and maintenance works by the Minister or Mayor is abolished and the competence to decide on the appropriateness and use of the road is fully applicable to the road manager. There is also a more restrictive provision for road-side information and advertising. The question is whether the proposed changes are really crucial to improving safety on our roads or whether they are merely cosmetic amendments to legislation that will not have the expected effects. Moreover, in this area they may cause even greater confusion in the fact that, with regard to this legislative proposal as well as to the others that we are considering today, there has been virtually no public debate, and in the preparation of the material, even those expert bodies most concerned by the proposed amendments have not been included, the question of the legitimacy of the continuation of the legislative procedure on the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Roads, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We therefore believe in our Group that the adoption of such changes in the current situation, when we do not even have a competent minister with full powers and when support is not yet provided for other proposals in the field of transport laws which foresee reorganisation and rationalisation, is inappropriate. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as in the previous item on the agenda, we believe that the proposed law would best be withdrawn from the legislative process, re-evaluate which changes to the law are necessary and then, with a little more discretion, especially cooperation with the professional public, to prepare and invest in the National Assembly. The Member and Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group therefore assess that the proposed amendment to the Roads Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Plevčak on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to all present! The main objective of the proposed amendment to the Roads Act is, according to the proposaler, the rational organisation of the state administration, the effective implementation of tasks within the framework of the national administration, the elimination of problems in the practical implementation of the law, the provision of greater safety in transport and the removal of administrative barriers. The proposal for a novel eliminates certain rigid solutions in the installation and construction of road and cycling connections. In addition, the novelty also sets out a notification signal to inform road users of the places or vicinity of the cities where an activity that is important to them as road participants, such as petrol services or tourist sights, is carried out. A novelty confers certain responsibilities on tollers, since from now they will be able to secure the site of the accident and will be empowered to control the rules on maximum permissible masses on motorways. The novelty also makes it clearer to specify an area where advertising is not permissible for reasons of traffic safety. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we also have new concerns in this proposal, as in the proposal for the amendment of the Drivers Act and the Motor Nodes Act, namely the re-removal of employees at the Agency, only this time in reverse, i.e. from the Agency to the Directorate, and the resulting reduction of the rights already acquired from work. Members and Members of the DeSUS Group cannot agree with this. We believe that this bill brings some good solutions, and we will certainly see Members and Members of this proposal in the first reading as suitable for further consideration, but of course, provided that amendments are prepared for the second reading, which will delete the provisions on the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, but if those provisions are not deleted, we will reject this amendment in the second reading by the Member and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Roads Act is necessary in particular for the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and the transfer of its tasks to certain other institutions. The novelty also brings some changes, particularly in terms of simpler administrative procedures and the elimination of those procedures that have proved to be less effective in practice. In Nova Slovenije, we are committed to increasing the responsibilities of individual function holders, so we particularly welcome the part of the law that allows the road manager more freedom in decision-making while at the same time requiring him to take full responsibility for his decisions. We believe that in Slovenia more attention should be paid to the construction of cycling routes, both in terms of cheaper transport, environmental protection and also in terms of the development of green tourism, which has a great potential in Slovenia. Members of New Slovenia will support the law in the first reading. However, if there is any further proposal in the law-making process that will contribute to greater transport safety and more efficient road management, we will examine it and decide whether it makes sense to include it in this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u118	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! By decision of 23 February 2012, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to abolish the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety. The tasks performed by this body under the Roads Act are intended to be delegated to other bodies, namely to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and partly to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space. At the same time, the Government has proposed amending all laws governing the powers of the Public Agency for Transport Safety, namely the Motor Vehicle Act and the Drivers Act, which contain specific provisions on the termination of the Agency. Due to the extremely poor road safety situation, this independent transport safety authority was established during the Pahor government. The decision to organise the area of transport safety in the form of a public agency was first of all a professional decision, and later a political decision reached through a high consensus of the National Assembly. During this time, traffic safety has improved significantly; the number of deaths has been on the rise since 2008 until the end of 2012. This means that action in the field of prevention and action in the field of traffic infrastructure regulation can achieve results and the number of deaths is decreasing. The bill seeks to remedy some of the shortcomings that have arisen in practice by amending the law, by removing some of the bad solutions in the installation and construction of road and cycling connections, and by simplifying the process of issuing technical specifications in the construction, design and maintenance of public roads. It will also be a welcome roadside notification, which will be very important for road users and have long been introduced in neighbouring countries. In this way, the toll supervisor will be able to secure the place of the accident and also have the authority to control the rules on maximum permissible masses that can only be carried out on motorways. The Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia does not agree with the abolition of the Road Safety Agency, but places great emphasis on improving the area of infrastructure and ensuring greater road safety. Therefore, we will support the draft law at first reading, of course, by expecting certain corrections in second reading, because we are aware that life is one and it is right to ensure and support greater road safety. Well, our vote at the first reading of this law will certainly be on the day.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. However, there is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As already stated, the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of this law in its first reading. However, there must be a great deal of effort to make sure that the solutions are truly as good as possible. Today we are talking for quite a while about road safety, in fact, it is about the lives that, if solutions are not right, can often be endangered in road transport. The contents and solutions brought by the changes and those welcomed in New Slovenia are above all the following. The tasks of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety are transferred to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, which should be underlined: without any additional employment at the Ministry. There have been many objections to the termination of that agency, but we in the New Slovenia Group think it is mainly content, not form. Some rigid solutions in the installation and construction of road and cycling connections are being addressed. The bill follows the principle of adapting solutions to specific circumstances or characteristics of roads. Thirdly, the procedure for issuing technical specifications and technical guidelines applicable to the construction, design and maintenance of public roads is simplified. Publication in the Official Journal will no longer be mandatory, it is said, a reduction in administrative costs not least. The texts will be made available to the public in the form of publications and on the websites, the way in which technical specifications and technical guidelines are prepared and issued will be further regulated by a sub-legislative act laid down by the Minister. Fourth time. The establishment of roadside tables for restaurants, petrol services, tourist attractions and so on shall be decided by the road operator, clearly determining that the costs of setting up, replacing or removing such signaling shall be borne by the economic operator carrying out such activity. While this arrangement is already in force for state roads, it is now being extended to all public roads, as it is said. Come in. Where investment maintenance works and maintenance works are carried out in public interest, the authorisation to use the road shall be withdrawn. The law now proposes a solution whereby the operator decides on the appropriateness and use of the road and also takes responsibility for his decision. Six. Transfer of increased powers to road overseers. Travel controllers will be able to secure the site of the accident and will also have clear powers to control the rules on maximum permissible masses. Travel controllers may exercise their powers only on motorways. It's a week. Procedures for the use of the State road for events that do not impede road traffic are being simplified. The authorisation is no longer required and the organizer of the event is obliged to provide the controller with only the necessary information. In addition, the law no longer regulates the road closure laboratory in case of an event. This elaborat was a really unnecessary administrative matter and also a cost. And eight times – the novel prohibits the establishment of information and advertising facilities which, by color, form or symbol, resemble traffic signalling and thus have a negative impact on traffic safety. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group itself and also considers that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Roads Act is a good basis for further consideration, for a further parliamentary procedure, and I believe that this proposal will also be upgraded qualitatively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Andrej Chuš, prepare yourself for the Mag. Ivan Vogrin and then Dr. Ljubica Jelusič.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. This law touches many areas, but in the beginning I would like to point out the problems that have arisen in roadside advertising. This area in Slovenia has not been regulated at all by 2010, however, after the 2010 law has been enacted, it has been shown in practice that certain issues need to be addressed, particularly when it comes to places where advertising facilities and the design characteristics of the facilities set out to be specified more precisely. It should be noted that in most European countries the issue of road advertising is explicitly limited in terms of ensuring the safety of road users. The general rule is that on roads where higher speed is allowed, advertising is more limited, as it distracts drivers. It is also prohibited to use ads that resemble traffic signals. The scope of the maintenance works is not yet sufficiently cost-effective, although the Road Act, particularly in relation to other areas of transport infrastructure, contains rather simplified solutions. It is therefore a reasonable responsibility to carry out the maintenance work properly and to transfer the safety of the infrastructure to the operator. The bill also includes some less difficult changes that address shortcomings or simplify individual procedures. In particular, certain solutions to the installation and construction of road and cycling connections are being addressed, following the law's proposal to adapt solutions to specific circumstances, ensuring the highest possible measure of traffic safety. This will take greater account of the characteristics of the road – i.e. the speed limit and so on – at which the station is established when bus stops are established along the main and regional roads. The specific circumstances of the infrastructure will also be taken into account when establishing cycling routes and cycling routes. The procedure for issuing technical specifications and technical guidelines applicable to the construction, design and maintenance of public roads shall also be simplified. Publication in the Official Journal will no longer be mandatory as texts will be made available to the public in the form of publications and on the Internet. The way in which specific specifications and technical guidelines are drawn up and issued will be further regulated by the Under-Law of the Minister. That is why I also support these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Dr Ljubica Jelusic has the word, Mrs Iva Dimic is prepared and then Mr Zvonko Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The government material we received to address the changes and supplement to the Roads Act states that these changes relate to two substantive areas. The first content area is the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Safety of Transport and the transfer of its powers to other national authorities, while the second content area is so called other less difficult amendments and additions to the law which have been shown to be necessary on the basis of its implementation so far. It is interesting to note that, above all, these amendments from the second point of view are those which are important for the consideration of this law, namely those things that have actually occurred when it comes to determining how the Road Act works and where it should be corrected or supplemented due to certain shortcomings. However, as regards the content of the abolition of the Public Agency for Transport Safety, I find it inappropriate and I object to the abolition of this public agency because I recall how extensive they were and how professional the debates were, how many people were involved in these discussions and how extensive the international comparisons were in 2010 when we introduced a public agency in the Pahor government as an independent professional institution that should deal with transport safety. At that time, in order to compare the search for an appropriate solution, it was compared or sought justification in countries such as Spain, Finland, Sweden, Austria, Belgium, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Norway and some others. It was a matter of determining how many transport safety tasks must be delegated from the State authorities to independent institutions and whose tasks such as these must be maintained in particular by those national authorities which have executive powers. This conflict, the conflict between the independence of some authorities and what remains of its own executive power, is seen in some way in the debate on today's package of legislation prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the premises of the former government. In fact, it is a matter of attempting to carry out some of the tasks already quite well by this independent body, the public agency, in order to transfer some of these tasks again and again to the State authority, i.e. to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, on the one hand, and on the other hand to the Directorate, i.e. to the DRSC. I would point out that in other countries, including those we compared in 2010, they know this kind of conflict, but they have solved it in a way that they have set up special independent institutes for certain tasks, in particular, to investigate the worst traffic accidents, as well as some other things. And interestingly, that exactly the countries that the government has prepared for us this time offer solutions only from Austria, Belgium, Italy and Spain, that they also have certain independent institutions in these countries and that they are not called agencies but are called institutes. Well, that's what the previous government shut up in its writings. Therefore, I note that in view of the changes concerning the termination of the operation of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, the amendment of the Roads Act is unnecessary. As regards those amendments and additions to the law which have been shown to be necessary because of the shortcomings encountered in the implementation of this Act and those which lead to the elimination of certain administrative obstacles, in particular in the field of technical specifications in the use of roads and so on, these amendments are to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Get ready, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I will support the Roads Act by withdrawing in the second reading all those articles that talk about the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, because this law nevertheless solves some of the problems that have arisen in the past or that have been in the past for many years, not to say for decades. This is Article 14 of the Law Amendment, which amends Article 35, which deals with bus stops. In Slovenia, we have about 11 thousand bus stops, many thousands of bus stops – various numbers are mentioned, and between 2,000 and 3,000 bus stops are controversial because they are on the road itself. We have witnessed, both in Tolminska, in Idrija and in Haloza, that the competent authorities have abolished such stations, although buses have been stopping there for decades so that schoolchildren can go to schools so that workers can go to the factory so that older citizens who do not have cars can go to larger centers. For as a rule, all these bus stops are outside of larger settlements, away from municipal centres and larger centers; they are said to be somewhere on the outskirts or in the countryside and so on. So, practically overnight, four stations between Godovic and Idrija were deleted, and it took quite a lot or a lot of effort to reestablish them. A number of committees met, numerous interviews were held between representatives of the congregation, representatives of the countries, representatives of the Ministry, the Directorate, inspection services and so on. The current amendment of this article, however, makes it easier to set up these bus stops, under certain conditions if the bus stop is on the road itself — for example, if the road passes through the village, then the speed limit is 50 kilometers and so on. This law or amendment of this Article also governs that a special opinion of the Commission is no longer required. I think that this change will enable us to solve the problem of bus stops in Slovenia, wherever this may already occur, in particular faster and easier, and yet it will be necessary to provide the means to establish such safe bus stations as are located on the road itself. Because in some ravine, you can't build a station and a station outside the road, because there's no room and it's not possible or the costs are so high that it wouldn't be profitable. I therefore hope that the amendment to this Article will solve this problem. In this case, it was 300 people who were limited in one way or another because these stations were shut down. There were no more busses, no more school busses, but the municipality had to provide its own vans and so on, while, for example, older people without cars could no longer go to the municipal centre and so on. However, if we calculate that we have 2 000 or even 3 000 such irregular stations, and if we stop these stations, you can calculate for yourself how many people, citizens and citizens would be deprived of it in Slovenia. So I hope that this change will resolve things here as well. However, both the State and the local community will also need to find additional funds for such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u128	Your Honor! I believe that the law brings a considerable number of good solutions. Today, I have come to understand from the debate that there are quite a few constructive suggestions. I support the continuation of the procedure for the adoption of this law, and since the law is now in first reading, we can also introduce this constructive suggestion during the process and that these good solutions also respect the adoption of this law and also the improvement of this section of the Roads Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I take it you've all been given the floor by the reported debaters who wanted to. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that no, which is why I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Thursday, 28 March, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to motor vehicles and amendments. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-six Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister, but he is not present at the moment. That's why I'm asking the department's representatives, are we waiting anywhere near here for a minute? I'm taking five minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u130	Your Honor! As it is said, I give the floor to Mr Igor Maher, Minister for Infrastructure and Space, to further explain the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act gives rise to the following substantial changes and additions in relation to the existing situation. As in the previous two cases, the abolition of the Public Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia by a novelty brings the tasks of motor vehicles and trailers to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, which thus becomes the operational body for all operational tasks in the field of motor vehicles and trailers, the registration of registered vehicles shall be taken over in addition to the delegation of the powers of the Directorate. The amendment calls for a national contact point in the Republic of Slovenia for the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences, as required by Directive 2011/82EU, the European Parliament and the Council of 25 October 2011 on the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences related to road safety, whose time limit for transposition is 7 November 2013. The amendment further regulates access to vehicle data for all national contact points in the European Union. In addition, the novelty provides a clearer record of the individual provisions of the law, as provided, for example, for which vehicles are not subject to the chapter on placing on the market, the regulation of the procedure for registration of a working machine. The novelty also complements the provisions for procedures that have not been regulated so far, such as the definition of an auxiliary engine bicycle, provides for a way of determining the global identification of the vehicle manufacturer or parts thereof from the Republic of Slovenia and simplifies certain procedures relating to vehicles, such as the classification of mopeds as exceptions to the proof of the origin of the vehicle, the simplification of the procedure for changing the ownership of the vehicle in specific cases such as, for example, the case of rube, the divorce of spouses or inheritance, and the facilitation of the transfer of registration plates with the selected part of the label. Of course, the novel also corrects certain errors in the text of the law. However, if the debate finds that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, we will have to complete the proposal. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mirko Brulc, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u133	Your Honor! We will not support the proposed amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act in the Group of Social Democrats. The new law refers to the abolition of the Public Road Safety Agency. The abolition of the Agency would once again mark the fragmentation of powers and responsibilities between several administrative bodies, between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads as a body of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Interior and Public Administration, as a police force. The active functioning of the Agency, the prevention programmes and the coordinated work on transport safety at the time of its establishment in 2010 showed the correct decision of the 2010 National Assembly when, following a professional decision for an independent public agency, a high consensus was reached here in the National Assembly with the adoption of the law set up by the Agency. The state of security improved significantly during this period, as the number of deaths in 2008 was always falling by the end of 2012. The state of death in Slovenia deviates minimally from the European Union's demand to halve in 2001 when there were as many as 278 road fatalities in Slovenia. In 2008, 214, 2009 – 171, 2010 – 138, 2011 – 141 and 2012 – 130. We fear that the legal measures, such as the reduction of fines or the abolition of the first aid examination carried out by the candidate to the competent organisations of the Red Cross, will make the amendment to the Drivers Act, which we have discussed today, worsen the security situation and therefore we oppose the termination of the Agency. In doing so, in the Social Democrats Group, we call on the Government to prepare a new text of the amendment of the law without disputed articles repealing the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety, which will include amendments to the Motor Vehicle Act, which are important in order to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European legislation, such as the provisions of the European Directive on the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences related to road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! What we have already said today at the preceding two points is also the amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act. Also in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicles Act prepared by the former Minister, which was received on 28 February and sent to the National Assembly by the previous Government, we are being held in the Slovenian People's Party for similar reasons to those of the previous two. This is a set of amendments to the three laws, the key common point of which is the reorganisation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, in particular its intention to abolish the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety. This involves both staff intervention and the new organisation of the Ministry and, of course, not such small financial resources both for the relocation of officials, equipment, for the renovation of computer programmes, for the training of administrative workers working on these procedures. In the Slovenian People's Party, we certainly support the rationalisation of the state administration and we will continue to support such proposals. With regard to the laws under consideration today, however, we believe that some air needs to be covered and that all kinds of traffic laws should not be changed to the nose, as they were adopted by the government. The key content of the amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act is, as in the already dealt with by the Drivers Act and the Roads Act in the reorganisation of the Ministry or its authorities, which is regulated by its leadership, in particular by the competent minister, who, as we know, is currently missing or has made a withdrawal declaration immediately after the appointment. As we have seen in the preceding paragraphs, the new minister, who has already resigned, has neither been defined by the new government until these laws have been reorganised. It is sad, by the way, that at the first meeting of the National Assembly, the new government does not have a position on the laws under consideration, but we only need to read the content of the changes. We are also wondering why the preparation of the new amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act did not involve representatives of the authorities in the Ministry to which the reorganisation relates and who will take over the new tasks and personnel. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that Members must act rationally. The public agency of the Republic of Slovenia for road safety, which is hereby terminated, was established less than three years ago. Today, we expected the Government to tell us whether this agency will really end or not, that in a few months we will not be able to get those same laws back on the parliamentary bench, because perhaps the new minister will decide that it would be appropriate for us to have such an agency in Slovenia and the country to spend money again, move furniture, forgive and re-employ people and, with constant changes, to upset people. In the opinion of Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party, amendments to such important laws should be made less frequently but more systematically. In doing so, all the professional and interested public should be included in the public hearing. Now, with regard to other substantive amendments to the proposed amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act. The designation of a national contact point for the purposes of cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences and the simplification of the vehicle ownership change process in the Slovenian People's Party are considered appropriate but not necessary in order to avoid waiting. We therefore propose in the Slovenian People's Party that the planned reorganisation of the Ministry and other amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act be re-examined by the new Minister and then proposed by the Government for consideration and acceptance by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group, Mr Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers! The position of the New Slovenia Group will be relatively short, we predict support in the first reading of this law, but otherwise the proposed amendment of the Motor Vehicle Act is essentially a result of a government decision to abolish the Public Agency for Traffic Safety and its tasks and competences in the field of motor vehicles and switching vehicles is transferred to the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. In addition, the novel also removes certain shortcomings of the existing law, which entered into force in 2011. As part of the simplification of certain administrative procedures and the generalisation of the use of more environmentally friendly vehicles, it is particularly welcome that provision which provides that bicycles with auxiliary electric motors capable of up to 25 kilometres per hour do not need to be registered. Given that the law has been tabled on a regular basis, in Novi Slovenija we expect further comments and suggestions for improvements to appear in the course of the adoption of this law by the public concerned and also on the working body. These options are and should be taken into account and, if they make sense, of course included in the proposal for a law. So we have in our hands the scissors and the canvas, the parliamentarians, and we have every opportunity to make this law as good as possible. However, if the law is rejected in the first reading solely because it has been prepared by another government, then we will spend too much time in this house. And time is money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group Positive Slovenia, Mr Jože Velikinja.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u139	Honourable Chairman, Your Honor, present at the Hall! Due to the extremely poor road safety situation, an independent transport safety authority was established during the Pahor government. Statistics show that traffic safety has improved since the establishment of the Public Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Positive Slovenia considers that the Government, in preparing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Act, has followed the objective of abolishing the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and thus transferring the tasks of motor vehicles and switching vehicles to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, which would thus become an operational body for all operational tasks in the field of motor vehicles and trailers. This, however, means a return to the situation and arrangements by which we have ensured poorer road safety. The abolition of the Agency would increase the fragmentation of powers and responsibilities between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads as a body in the composition of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space and the Ministry of Interior and Public Administration and the Police. The Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety is a national organisation for transport safety, in which all the professional tasks in the field of drivers, vehicles, road traffic prevention and training and transport safety are combined and linked, and are also required of Slovenia to ensure greater road safety and the legal order of the European Union. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act is partially transposed into Slovenian legislation by the EU and Council Directive of 25 October 2011 on the facilitation of the cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences related to road safety, which we welcome, but these tasks could be carried out by the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety. We do not support the amendment and amendment of the law, as stated in the Parliamentary Group of Positive Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u141	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! As with the other transport laws, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Motor Vehicle Act provides for the abolition of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and transfers all its tasks in the field of motor vehicles and trailers from the public agency to the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. Thus, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads will become the operational body for all operational tasks in the field of motor vehicles and trailers, as it will also take over the entire vehicle registration record in addition to the delegation of powers. Furthermore, the law also regulates the designation of a national contact point for the purposes of cross-border exchange of information on traffic offences and the way in which those information is exchanged at national contact points in the Member States and the way and content of reporting to the European Commission as set out in the 2011 Directive. It shall further specify the definitions of an auxiliary engine bicycle, specify the procedure for obtaining a certificate of conformity of the vehicle or consent to registration for vehicles for which the applicable law did not have the procedure provided for. It shall provide for a method of determining the global identification of vehicle manufacturers or parts thereof from the Republic of Slovenia. It further regulates the identification of mopeds with certain characteristics in the vehicle registration procedure, as well as the identification of a user in the vehicle owner who is a full-year disabled person without an appropriate driving licence. It also regulates the classification of mopeds as exceptions to the proof of the origin of the vehicle, simplifies the procedures for changing the ownership of the vehicle in the case of ruble, divorce of spouses, succession, further regulates the procedures for the registration of working machinery, enables the transfer of registration plates with the selected part of the label and allows the withdrawal of the certificate of performance of the examination or skill test to the operator of the tasks. The law itself will also have a financial impact of some less than €200,000, as the delegation of tasks will have to be carried out, some procedures will have to be implemented to modify the software support for registration records for motor vehicles, establish a new register of authorised registrations for registration organisations and establish an automated data exchange system between national contact points. Since the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act follows European guidance, it brings together the area of motor vehicles at one Ministry and will address certain shortcomings of the existing law, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Srečko Meh and then Mag. Ivan Vogrin. Mr. Bell Lach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u143	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act because it follows that the agencies we have in our country be abolished and so on. I will refer to Mr Vogrin's debate, which has discussed in this direction, that we need to simplify our rules, in particular to make legislation simpler and more effective, and to abolish the various agencies that have been good at one time and have replaced certain responsibilities of individual departments, and some have been appointed or set up because of the transfer of responsibilities to them from individual sources, ministers, secretaries of state, with responsibility somehow lost. I have not yet heard that when a traffic accident took place, the responsibility of the responsible agency was sought, but the responsibility passed directly to the Minister of this department and the resignation of this minister was required, not to a responsible one in an agency. That is why I think that this responsibility is more directly linked to the responsible minister, the ministry or the Roads Directorate, because the Roads Directorate is the one responsible for the state of our roads and, consequently, for the safety of these roads. I also have a question about where we're going to take from, so that we can continue to finance all of these agencies we have. In May, I also received a list of the various worlds, commissions, inter-resor working committees that we have. You won't believe it. There are 274 in Slovenia. It says here that these commissions are supposed to have professional officials – probably not, but, after all, no one works for free in these commissions, councils, labour commissions and so on. Here you can see how responsibility or responsibilities should be transferred to certain non-political commissions, agencies, and then none of this is done, but we know that politics is behind it. You find work for a relative, and so on, and responsibility just gets lost. I am of the opinion that the purpose of this law is good to abolish a particular agency, to transfer responsibility to the Roads Directive as the most responsible in this area, and that this case is also followed by other agencies, because I am confident that we will be forced to do so, because if you follow where the interest rate has been raised today for our loans, it is already 6.69%. That way, we will probably be there soon when they no longer give us credit abroad and we will be forced to reduce the costs of public spending and also of various agencies and commissions and similar things. At the same time, the law harmonises the European Directive and brings about a certain order in this area. I think that this law would be followed in the first reading to confirm and in the next stages to complete, and if not in the second, to leave what is necessary or is good for adoption, if you do not want to confirm in the current position that we are starting with the removals of various unnecessary or less needed agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Meh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u145	Madam Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen! A typical example of the laws that we are considering today is a typical example of how laws should not be prepared. Then we can count on the fact that laws will not be adopted and that we will discuss something that is not even as essential as it indicates. If the Motor Vehicle Act were to discuss the problems that the law was trying to solve in addition to the termination of the agency, they would hit the nails where they were supposed to. This is how we talk about the agency all the time, and we oppose it. I agree that perhaps, or I allow the possibility that the institution, the agency and everything else is too much, I allow this opportunity and allow the possibility not to do their job, but without a good analysis based on the reasons why we set up this agency, then on what the agency is doing today and why we are proposing a change, it is not possible to change something that they thought two and a half years ago is extremely good and that it solves the common problem. If we were to upgrade or intervene in bad work, as some say, these agencies and ensure control, upgrade with what we have to, then we would help this agency and also safety in transport. For this reason, I believe that it would be right to withdraw most of these laws from the procedure, to redesign them, and also to agree in the political circles whether the agencies are shutting down or not, the reasons why they would terminate the agency, and to make it easier to resolve the problem around all these laws and changes that laws bring and probably most of them are good and right. This is how we talk about the fact that interest rates are too high, that there are too many people in public administration, but we are not talking about what the consequences are, what the results are, and we are talking about reducing costs when we move the agency workers to DRSC and that we will work easier there. If work needs to be done, it needs to be rationalised and done. That's why I won't support this law myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Vogrin has the floor. After him prepare Dr. Ljubica Jelusic and then Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Not taking our work too seriously also shows that there are more than 20 Members in the Chamber at the moment. Today we are dealing with a serious topic that has serious financial implications. That's interesting. If you're trying to find out who made this law, it's impossible. The proposer is the Ministry. So it's likely that thousands or 2,000 people in this ministry have been preparing this law socially. Is that possible? It can't be! This is one of the systemic anomalies in our somewhat more than 20-year-old work that has consequences for what they are. Indeed, as a Member, I would like to know which group of three, five, ten people were preparing this so that with their comments they could go to the proposer – not the Minister, not the Secretary of State, because they cannot know anything about this issue or very little, escape. Because if you were such a rabble, then you probably wouldn't be a minister, you'd be somewhere else, where Bill Gates is now. It is therefore necessary to change the system of legislation. If the legislation is to be useful so that every law will not do any more harm than the previous one, so that every next law will not cause any more red tape and clever nonsense, as Dr. Peter Kraljič put it, then we need to know first of all, Madam President, who are the candidates, which working group has been preparing for those who have comments on the law – whether it is the professional public, or whether it is the political public, or whether it is the Members – to be able to communicate directly. Now we're writing, here and there, with no effect. When I asked you a question six months ago, maybe more who are the applicants, who is the proposer, who was preparing the text of the law, there is no way to get an answer – I couldn't get an answer for the time of the previous government, which I personally don't read to, but I'm also afraid that I won't be able to do it at the time of this government, and then anyway, it won't be possible because the European Trinity will come, because we won't be able to propose any more anyway. Now is the time to sober up and what my colleague said; look, we are spending about a good billion too much and we need to reduce public spending. Reduce wherever possible. Some rather serious economists have made calculations where public spending can be reduced — by having an overly bureaucratic system. The agency here, the agency there and when things don't work Let's read the book Parkinson's Law, which was published in England in 1957 and in 1995 we, when it says exactly, based on 30 years of scientific research, how the government works. [[...]] When things don't work, we set up a new fund, or an agency, or a new government service — and even less they work! That's about the way it is in this case. That's how I might agree. I don't know whether I'm going to support the law or not in the third reading, but it might be really good to get it out of the procedure, to finish it, and, above all, to find out who we can make comments to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you very much. A respected magus. Vogrin, I would like to tell you that this proposal is the Government's proposal, and this is now a first hearing. If the law is adopted at first reading, it will go to second reading and then to a meeting of the competent working body, i.e. the Committee on Infrastructure and Space, then the chairman of the committee may also invite all interested or involved. Article 51, first item, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that "the drafters or their representatives and representatives of the Government and representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service who may participate in the debate shall be invited to the meeting of the working body to consider the specific items of the agenda." Under Article 51, "at the meeting of the working body, representatives of the institutions whose work is directly related to the content of the issues under consideration may be invited to address the specific items of the agenda, experts and representatives of the public concerned, who may declare and explain their opinions and views on the matter at the meeting". So tomorrow we will have a vote on this point, and if we proceed to the first reading, in the second reading on the competent working body we will also have this opportunity to hear experts and everyone else interested, which you asked and discussed, Mr Mag. Ivan Vogrin. The next debate is held by Dr Ljubica Jelusic, followed by Mr Mirko Brulc and then by Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President! In establishing laws and also in amending and supplementing laws, it is usually the case that certain changes require policy, and some are the result of professional findings within the state administration, within the ministries. Even with amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act, this is very good because the part concerning the abolition of the Public Agency for Transport Safety is clearly politically ordered and then another part of this law, which deals with the issue of the harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with European legislation, which is obviously based on the professional needs of the house. I think that, as a result of the multiple facts already found in connection with the functioning of the Public Agency for Transport Safety, it would be right to draw out from the proposal of this Act everything concerning the termination of this agency. However, in order for the Ministry and infrastructure and space to be prepared in future steps a decent law or amendments and additions to the Motor Vehicle Act, which specifically address this key problem, which makes these changes necessary, this is the implementation of the European Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u151	Dear colleagues and colleagues! As far as I have read the new government programme, the main task is to stabilise public finances. This surprises me today when some colleagues discuss that they do not know the reasons for abolishing the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Transport, as this task can be carried out by the Directorate for the Roads of the Republic of Slovenia in the same scope and quality and quality and security. For this reason, I do not see the real reason for the so-feeling opposition to termination, because let's save it and ask ourselves, where does the public agency come from? [[...]] From the budget of the State of the Republic of Slovenia! And if we're not so keen to see that we want to save something here and thereby add a stone to the savings of the state budget, then I'd say we have a very narrow view and we're talking about security I don't know what else. Then, unfortunately, I fear that this stabilisation of public finances will go very, very slowly. What if I remind you of my colleague, Mr Lach, who mentioned interest rates? In just a few days, look where interest rates went from just over 4 percent to 6.9 percent. This is the result of the measures, and I hope it will indeed be one of those measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Mrs. Ljubica Jelusich. Anyone else? No, no, no. So I give you my word, five minutes, Dr. Jelusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I doubt that the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads is capable of performing all the tasks transferred from various national authorities to the Public Transport Safety Agency in 2010. Until then, administrative officials in administrative units were performing these tasks across different municipalities, then people from the Ministry of the Interior, the police, the Directorate for Roads, the DRSC, and the Ministry of Transport. All these different institutions from different parts of the then state administration have joined the Public Transport Safety Agency. The question was whether such transport safety tasks should be performed in an independent professional manner within the framework of a public agency or carried out within a state of administration under executive authority. The decision was that it would be better to select a body that would, of course, continue to link different parts of the state administration and tasks, but that body acts more independently than could be possible within the state's executive apparatus. So today, to return the tasks that were gathered three years ago from four, five parts of the state administration, back to one body, i.e. to the DRSC, and we have learned today from the debate that the DRSC has not even given an opinion on this amendment, so that it takes on the public transport safety agency's demands on its shoulders, I think it is a bit too much to expect at this point. I think it should be properly assessed whether the DRSC is really capable of doing all this and where all the tasks, which are also of an administrative nature and also of an inspectoral, supervisory nature, could really go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2013-03-27-SDZ6-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Thursday, 28 March, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 12th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Nicely greeted.
